Greetings again from the darkness. Interesting, open to interpretation film from the brilliant mind of writer/director Darren Aronofsky. The film spans over 1000 years, but the three stories are presented in a non-linear manner so as to encourage thought and discussion. The whole topic of everlasting life or death as a disease could and has filled numerous research papers. Mr. Aronofsky brings his unique visual element to the topics.The two leads are played well enough by Hugh Jackman and Rachel Weisz. Jackman's look spans that of Mick Fleetwood as a conquistador, TV's Dr. House in the present, and the zen of David Carradine in the future. Regardless of the era, he spends the entire film extremely agitated with a constant frown. Weisz, on the other hand, makes a lovely queen, a perky dying lady and sickly tree. Supporting help is provided by Ellen Burstyn (making up for her horrible turn in "The Wicker Man") and the powerful Stephen McHattie as The Inquistor.Each story has a frenetic pace and the climax of Jackman discovering "The Fountain" is pretty well done. This one doesn't score higher due to lack of connection to the two main characters in any period of time. We just aren't really given any reason to care.Although not in the class of "PI" and certainly not the excellence of "Requiem for a Dream", Mr. Aronofsky delivers another thought provoking visual feast that will be loved by many and hated by some.
Greetings again from the darkness. The film is exactly what you would expect from a screwball romantic comedy steeped in drama based on bipolar disorder, depression, OCD, Philadelphia Eagles fanatics, a ballroom dancing contest, adultery, Hemingway, and a lead character who jogs while wearing a trash bag. Maybe not exactly what you would expect, but more likely much more.If you were told instead that the story is based on two damaged souls who help heal each other through dancing, you would have every reason to skip this one. However, as written and directed by David O Russell (The Fighter) and based on Matthew Quick's novel, this story is a frenetic, emotional roller coaster ride that provides a glimmer of hope for the two damaged lead characters, while reminding that each of us may be a bit off-center in some way. Now add in the best young actress working today (Jennifer Lawrence just turned 22), a rare performance from Robert DeNiro where he seems fully engaged, a pulling back the curtain on Bradley Cooper as much more than a pretty face, and one of the best and most precise soundtracks in recent history ... now you have one of the best films of the year.What you notice very early on is that what could be considered a trite story line, is instead pounding you with sharp, witty dialogue that pulls no punches in directness. The many aspects of family and emotional support are given time thanks to Pat (Bradley Cooper) being released after 8 months in a mental institution. He was sent there when he snapped after finding his wife in a compromising position with another man. Perfectly understandable if you ask me, but clearly he is the explosive one despite his claims to the contrary. An uncomfortable dinner party introduces him to Tiffany (Ms. Lawrence) whose husband has recently died and her coping skills have been shared with most of those in her workplace. This odd couple spark immediately and the wild ride begins.Pat's wife Nikki (Brea Bee) has issued a restraining order and Pat's strategy to win her back involves a positive attitude and maintaining control of his emotions. His supporters include his mother (Jacki Weaver, who was so great in Animal Kingdom), his OCD father (DeNiro) who so wants to re-connect with his son, his friend (John Ortiz) whose own marriage (to icy Julia Stiles) is a messy mess, his buddy from the asylum (a funny and not over the top Chris Tucker), and of course, Tiffany. The only real problem is that each of these supporters are teetering in their own way just like Pat.The brilliance of this movie is the balance struck between the near violent emotional outbursts and the sharp, exacting words spouted by each of the characters. Director Russell once again shows his flair for working class northeasterners. He understands these tough as nails people who wear their emotions on their sleeves. These people are as likely to punch you as hug you ... and both are acts of love.The soundtrack deserves special mention. It is very unique and varied, with each song serving an exact purpose. Especially keen are Stevie Wonder's "My Cherie Amour", Led Zeppelin's "What is and What Should Be", and "The Girl from the North Country" a Bob Dylan and Johnny Cash duet. When the music strikes a harmony with the scene, the movie is all the stronger. Rarely do we get the perfect storm of script, direction, acting, music and relevance.
Greetings again from the darkness. Being a huge fan of Tim Burton's 1984 short of the same title, news of a feature length feature was very exciting. It's obvious from both films that director Tim Burton holds the story and project close to his heart. The obvious guess is that young Victor Frankenstein has much in common with the enigmatic director's childhood experience ... a social misfit who finds joy in less than popular outlets (science, sci-fi, filmmaking).The story begins simply enough, Victor - a socially inept boy, whose only friend is his loyal dog Sparky, quickly connects with the new science teacher, Mr. Rzykroski (who bears a striking resemblance to the late, great Vincent Price). Victor's parents try to get him more engaged and that leads to a tragic accident that kills Sparky. Victor is heart-broken but his scientific mind leads to a shocking development thanks to a local lightning storm. Soon enough, Sparky is back! Of course, the secret gets out and the Science Fair takes on quite a competitive nature.Burton really treats the film as an homage to old monster, horror and sci-fi films. We get tributes to Frankenstein, The Mummy, Dracula (complete with Christopher Lee), Godzilla, Bride of Frankenstein, Gremlins, Jurrassic Park and others I certainly missed on first viewing. But this is so much more. Mr. Rzykroski gives a less than PC speech to the local townspeople, and though it is straight to the point, that point is lost on these fine folks. The importance of science and learning and accepting the differences of others is all touched upon, but not in a preachy way.The voice work is stellar thanks to Catherine O'Hara, Martin Short, Winona Ryder, Charlie Tahan, Martin Landau and Atticus Shaffer (Brick on "The Middle"). The style and texture of the film is extraordinary. The shadows and lighting provide an atmosphere that adds just enough creepiness. The detail involved with the characters and setting is remarkable for stop-motion animation. Not just that, but how many movies have you seen recently that include a cat-bat, sea monkeys, and a giant turtle? The suburban setting is almost identical to the neighborhood seen in Burton's Edward Scissorhands, just without the 1960's color palette.This is excellent movie entertainment for adults and children alike. Unfortunately, the black and white presentation has meant a lack of interest from today's kids. Sure it has some darkness to it, but the PG rating means nothing too heavy. This is Tim Burton at his finest ... and without Johnny Depp or Helena Bonham Carter! Also, Danny Elfman's score perfectly compliments the story and characters, and stay for the credits to hear a very odd Karen O song.
Greetings again from the darkness. Based on the mega-best seller from author Khaled Hosseini, the film provides us a peak at the ugliness of post-Russia invaded Afghanistan and the terror of the Taliban. Director Marc Foster adds a gem to his resume, which already includes "Monster's Ball", "Finding Neverland" and "Stranger Than Fiction".The story of young friends Amir and Hassan and the unknown bond they share into the next generation. This is a story of honor and courage and loyalty and is an unusual coming-of-age tale. Some great scenes of the boys when they are kids and then a couple of truly amazing scenes as Amir returns as an adult to find Hassan's imprisoned son.This is tight, compelling story telling with a message. The acting is solid throughout, with no one actor stealing the screen. Although not a pleasant story to watch unfold, it is certainly meaningful and heart felt. Plus a quick shot of Midnight Oil playing in the pool hall is a welcome gift.
Greetings again from the darkness. Kids and dogs. They can get away with just being cute. Screenwriters don't get to settle for cute. Their words must deliver a story that we care about. First time co-directors Brian Klugman (Jack's nephew) and Lee Sternthal also co-wrote this script (and the story for Tron: Legacy). Their idea is cute. A movie featuring a story within a story within a story within a story. Unfortunately, the third level brings the film crashing down towards a conclusion that is so poorly presented, that the good parts of the film are quickly forgotten.Rory Jansen (played by Bradley Cooper) is a struggling writer who is sitting on two unpublished novels. Dora, his extremely supportive girlfriend (a requirement for a struggling writer) is played by Zoe Saldana (showing much more range than Avatar allowed). They receive financial support from Rory's good as gold dad played by JK Simmons. Rory takes a job in the mailroom at a publisher and tries to keep writing. It's clear he's going nowhere despite his dream of becoming the next great American novelist. And then ... just like THAT ... his life changes. He discovers a manuscript hidden in the secondhand leather portfolio that Dora bought him. Rory confronts the Faustian dilemma in a way that either changes who he is, or exposes who he is.The manuscript is published and Rory becomes famous and rich. And they all live happily ever after. Well, until one day Rory is reading in the park when an Old Man (Jeremy Irons) strikes up a conversation. Soon, he is deep into the story about the events that motivated him to write the story some 60 years ago. It's a fascinating love story that combines war, Paris, heart-breaking loss and true love. In other words, the kind of real life story that creates a story like the one Rory is getting credit for. Plagiarism is a horrible crime and intrusion made most humiliating once exposed.The flashbacks during the re-telling of the Old Man's story are extremely well done (featuring Ben Barnes and Nora Amezeder) and make a terrific parallel to Rory and Dora's story. Unfortunately, the bookend structure around these stories involves Dennis Quaid as an author at a reading of his most recent book. He has actually written the story that we have just seen. Yes, the one involving Rory and the Old Man. The film plays it coy as to what the real source is for Quaid's book, but at this point, we just don't care. If we aren't disappointed enough, we get Olivia Wilde as a grad student lusting after Quaid and the story behind the story. Talk about letting the air out of the balloon! Their scenes together are excruciatingly bad.In real life, Ernest Hemingway's first wife really did leave the originals of his early writings on a train, lost to the world forever. That forms the basis for this film, but as is often the case, real life proves much more interesting than fiction. On the plus side, Bradley Cooper steps up from his lackluster string of performances to show he has more to offer than just being cute.
Greetings again from the darkness. There was much uproar when Tim Burton rolled out his 1989 feature length BATMAN film. He took the campy TV series, turned it inside-out, and created a dark brooding Batman ... more in-line with the tone of the comics. In a near polar opposite move, writers Seth Rogen and Evan Goldberg took the dead-pan humor and straight-laced characters of the Green Hornet TV series and have delivered a slacker version for their Gen Y fans.Being a fan of the mid-60's TV series, but too young to have experienced The Green Hornet radio series which ran from the 1930's through the 1950's, I will readily admit that I am not a fan of Mr. Rogen's re-imagined crime-fighters. However, I will also admit that Kato-vision and this new Black Beauty are very cool. And Jay Chou as Kato works very well. He exudes cool and brilliance and an understanding of his role. Where this film fails miserably is every time Seth Rogen utters a line of dialogue. Yes, EVERY SINGLE TIME. The film has no chance to build momentum through action or bad guy story line despite the presence of Christoph Waltz. Rogin slobbers through another line of dialogue and it's like the air brakes on a semi locking up on icy roads. It's just brings traffic to a standstill.Besides Chou and Waltz, who are both very good, other supporting work is provided by Cameron Diaz, Tom Wilkinson, Edward James Olmos and Edward Furlong. Diaz, Olmos and Furlong have little to do and Mr. Wilkinson was the perfect choice as Britt Reid's dad ... if only Britt Reid weren't Seth Rogen! While adaptation can be a good thing, I doubt creator George Trendle had this in mind when he wrote the original Green Hornet character as the great nephew to the Lone Ranger. Rogin seems to think the Green Hornet is a spin-off of PINEAPPLE EXPRESS.If you see this film in 3-D, you can play with the glasses and easily identify which scenes were filmed that way and which weren't. I would encourage you to only use the glasses when necessary, because the colors are definitely muted through the lenses.My final complaint is the minimal use of the iconic Green Hornet theme song (Flight of the Bumble Bee) made famous by the great Al Hirt. We get only a taste of it in the final scene. So, realizing I sound like an old man, I will say that I enjoyed Kato, Black Beauty and the action scenes, but desperately miss Bruce Lee, Van Williams and the uber-coolness of the original.
Greetings again from the darkness. (Sept 3, 2007) Remakes always cause me to pause, especially when they are of films I enjoyed ... such as the 1957 "3:10 to Yuma", which was probably Glenn Ford's best screen performance. Still, having only seen the preview twice (remarkable in this day), I was instantaneously curious to see Batman and Gladiator in the lead roles!! This is a fantastic traditional western film with good guys and bad guys and muddled minds, when the time comes to decide what is morally right and what might actually be an easy way out. As we have seen in "The Magnificent Seven" and "High Noon", choosing the easy way out is rarely heroic and certainly doesn't create the high intensity story line played out in "3:10 to Yuma". The old west is the perfect playground for writers who enjoy showing the complexity involved in manhood, especially when fatherhood is involved.The two leads are exceptional. Russell Crowe exudes badness and coolness and brilliance as the legendary outlaw, Ben Wade. Watching his psychological games with his captors is creepy, yet humorous and at times, downright frightening. Good guy Christian Bale captures the desperation of a man continually wronged by his country, politicians, and even his God. He struggles to maintain his character for his sons and wife, but this is no ordinary man. He is possessed by character.Supporting standouts include Ben Foster as Crowe's right-hand man, Charlie Prince. Think Michael Biehn in "Tombstone". Foster is a scary guy, but also has a couple of the film's funniest lines. Gretchen Mol plays Bale's wife, and though she is given little to do, I must ask again ... "Why doesn't this woman work more often?". She is excellent in every role she takes, but she needs more screen time. If you doubt Ms. Mol's talent, please see "The Notorious Bettie Page". Also of note is Alan Tudyk who plays Doc. Tudyk gives another fine performance on the heels of his zany role in the excellent "Death at a Funeral". Also, I would be remiss to not mention Peter Fonda's all too brief role as the bounty hunter. Fonda spews his lines at the camera.What makes this updated version slightly better than the original is the gritty, dusty approach taken by up ("Walk the Line") and down ("Kate and Leopold") director James Mangold. We FEEL the gunshots, stampedes, chase scenes and dirt in the wounds. This realism helps build the tension of the final few minutes. Also, a tip of the hat to Mangold for not beating us over the head with shots of watches and clocks. There are enough for effect, but no so many as to ruin the moment.This is a must see and probably one of the best of the year. Can't often say that about August/September releases, but I assume it was released so as to not conflict with the upcoming Crowe/Denzel Washington film. Regardless, this is a film to see.
Greetings again from the darkness. Anyone who walks into this film having not seen the trailer or being unfamiliar with the previous works of writer/director Lars von Trier has my sincere sympathy. He is a unique and ambitious filmmaker with a touch of expressionism and a unique visual style. His movies are seen by a small audience and appreciated by even fewer. And on top of that, he may be the least politically correct celeb working today.The film begins with a most unusual prologue backed by Wagner's ominous composition and numerous visuals that play like slow moving paintings. Clearly, the end of the world is at hand. After that, we get two parts: Part 1 Justine, and Part 2 Claire. Justine (Kristen Dunst) is first seen in her wedding gown heading towards the reception with her new husband (Alexander Skarsgard). Normally, this is one of the happiest times of anyone's life, but here something is just not quite right. Once inside, we begin to understand. Justine's family and friends are all a bit off-center, and she is the worst of all.I won't go into the details because what really matters is that Melancholia, a large blue planet, is headed directly towards earth. Kiefer Sutherland plays Justine's brother-in-law and he assures everyone that the pass by will be a special moment and no need to fear a collision. His wife Claire (Charlotte Gainsbourg) believes her husband and tries to comfort her sister Justine.The supporting cast is outstanding and includes Alexander Skarsgard as the groom, Stellan Skarsgard as Justine's over-bearing employer, Charlotte Rampling as Justine's mother, John Hurt as the father, Jesper Christensen as the caretaker and creepy Udo Kier as the wedding planner. It's quite a cast and the only real point of their existence seems to be having Justine and the viewer question if this existence is better than no existence ... which could happen in 5 days.This year has provided quite a metaphysical buffet at the theater. We have had "The Tree of Life", "Another Earth", "Take Shelter" and now this entry from von Trier. This group will have you questioning many things in life, and beyond. The other similarity between the three is the artistic craftsmanship with which each is made. Clearly two famous paintings play a key role for von Trier, and is final shot is done with such a deft touch that only guys like Tony Scott and Michael Bay will feel let down.I certainly can't recommend this one to all. It is somewhat slow moving and filled with symbolism and characters bordering on depression. It is beautiful to look at, but tough to watch. My guess is you already know if this is one for you.
Greetings again from the darkness. The best dramatic writers thrive on creating a story filled with intricacies, multi-faceted characters, mis-direction, and a complex interweaving of sub-plots. Cormac McCarthy has proved he is one of the best such writers through his highly successful novels ... some of which have made the transition to the screen: All the Pretty Horses, The Road, and of course, No Country for Old Men. This, however, is his first attempt at an original screenplay. Describing it as a disappointment is a severe understatement. The cool parts of this movie: Bruno Ganz as a diamond dealer in Amsterdam and the two live cheetahs.The parts of the film that could have been interesting: the wardrobes of all main characters, Javier Bardem's Brian Grazer-inspired hairdo, the line-up of luxury vehicles (Bentley, Ferrari, etc), and the "bolito".The parts of this movie that were never going to work: the opening scene with Michael Fassbender and Penelope Cruz frolicking under the sheets, dialogue that is too poetic for the characters, Brad Pitt as his grown up scammer from Thelma and Louise, Fassbender's Texas accent, and Cameron Diaz.The part of this movie that is an outright disgrace: Cameron Diaz doing the splits while having intimate relations with the windshield of Bardem's Ferrari ... maybe this idea came from Joe Eszterhas after being rejected as too outlandish for Showgirls.Chances are viewers will fall into two camps: thinking this is a wild and crazy ride inside the Mexican drug cartel, OR believing this is one of 2013's sloppiest, messiest, most pointless and confusing wastes of time in a movie theater. I am solidly in group two and can't even recommend you see this to determine where you fall.The cast is filled with A-listers: Javier Bardem, Brad Pitt, Michael Fassbender, Penelope Cruz, and Cameron Diaz. The writer is a renowned novelist. The director is three time Oscar nominee Ridley Scott. How could it miss? Even the best actors can be miscast. Even the best writers have work best left unpublished. Even the best directors lose control of a project.I guess the best running joke throughout the movie is that Fassbender's titular character is constantly receiving counseling, rather than offering it. At its core, the story is just another drug deal gone bad (do any movie drug deals ever go "right"?). With it's unusual visuals, unrealistic conversations, and convoluted sub-plots, this one would have played better as a slideshow. Instead, I am left with this: I'll never look at a smudge on my windshield the same again.
Greetings again from the darkness. With Adaptation and Being John Malkovich under his belt, writer/director Spike Jonze has clearly proved he doesn't see the world the same as most of us. He was the perfect choice to bring Maurice Sendak's popular children's book to the big screen.Just as Max has to fill in the blanks in his life, so did Mr. Jonze. With only a few pages of text and pictures to work with, the blanks were massive. As kids, we all create our own imaginary world of perfection ... where we are king of everything. We see ourselves the way we wish others saw us. In the story, Max brags about his power and accomplishments and that leads to his being named king. Because the other thing we always seek is a great, trustworthy leader who can make things better. The political overtones are unmistakable.What makes this adaptation work is the look and feel of Max's world. The "beasts" are wild enough to be from a child's mind, but simple enough to be believable. It is heartbreaking to discover that all the battles he faced in his rocky home life are also on full display in his perfect world.The best voices are provided by James Gandolfini as Carol - the split personality brute/cuddly teddy bear who wants so much to trust Max and have this perfect family that all get along. Catherine O'Hara as Judith is the doubter in the group. She has been disappointed many times before and just doesn't want to get her hopes up again. Would have liked a bit more out of Lauren Ambrose as KW. The role could have been even more poignant.I am not clear how this kid's book became such a non-kid's film, but Jonze has delivered a commentary on power, family and authority. Kids may appreciate the fantastic look of Max's world, but they will likely be bored with the interpersonal aspects. Last point, Mr. Jonze has once again used the perfect music to compliment his fine film.
Greetings again from the darkness. My guess is that you either really want to see this movie or you have no interest at all. Either way, you are probably making the best decision. It's been 28 years since "Tron" hit the big screen. It became kind of a geeky cult film and never totally fell off the face of those in movie land. 28 years ago, the special effects awed us and the story was a bit creepy ... could a computer actually suck us into cyber-space (or whatever we called it then)? It was a time when computers were a bit mysterious. We knew they were powerful, but weren't yet sure if the "experts" were good or bad. Maybe we still don't know! Usually sequels are dreaded. Especially those 28 years later. However, the advancements in computer graphic technology gave this one a shot. The new film opens with Jeff Bridges' Kevin Flynn still lost on the grid, his old company in the hands of the greedy and not so nice, and his son living a bit of a reclusive, rebellious life.The other familiar face to return is that of Bruce Boxleitner (Tron/Alan Bradley in the original), who tracks down Flynn's son Sam (Garrett Hedlund) to inform him that he received a page from his dad's old shop. Of course, Sam checks it out and stumbles onto dad's old secret office/lab. Next thing we know, Sam is right there on the grid being drawn into gladitorial games of digital death. He is a very bright kid and quickly draws the attention of the ringmaster - CLU. CLU is also from the original, but has turned to the dark side and now has his sights set on world domination ... REAL world domination. And of course, CLU tricked Sam into finding him to open the portal back to the real world.Confused? None of that really matters. Not following the story details is almost expected. What really matters is the visuals! Light-cycles may be the coolest thing ever seen on screen. For all I know, this effect may have been the single driving force for the sequel. If that's not enough, watching a 30 year old Jeff Bridges as CLU square off against a 60 year old Jeff Bridges as zen master Kevin Flynn certainly makes the film worthy of a couple of hours for me.When Sam and Kevin are reunited, it's thanks to Olivia Wilde as Quorra. She is not "real", but Kevin has been her adopted parent so she is quite loyal and quite well schooled on all things human - especially Jules Verne! The other performance worth noting is that of Michael Sheen (who some now mistake as the real Tony Blair). Sheen, as Castor and Zuse, runs the bar for CLU. Sheen certainly leaves nothing in his bag and the best way to describe his character is a glam rock cross between David Bowie, Marc Bolan and Mick Jagger. He is Ziggy Stardust with a greedy side. Pretty funny and clever. Also fun to note, the DJ's in Zuse bar are actually Daft Punk, who are responsible for the thumping electronic techno soundtrack that adds its own stamp to the film.Typically I wouldn't have much to do with a movie that provides so little substance to the story, but that's just not what this one is about. It provides a nice bookend to the original and is a statement on just how far special effects have come and also a glimpse into where things are headed. My guess is the effects won't play so well on the average living room TV screen, so if you have any interest in this one, it's probably best to catch it during the theatrical release.
Greetings again from the darkness. What a treat to see this one on the big screen, some 56 years after its release. This is famed director Stanley Kubrick's first real feature-length film and is a quasi-film noir near the end of that genre's run. You undoubtedly know Kubrick's more famous work on 2001: A Space Odyssey, A Clockwork Orange, and The Shining, among others. His amazing eye with the camera is on full display here, but this provides quite a different look.Sterling Hayden stars as Johnny, the leader of a gang who plans to rob a racetrack of $2 million dollars. At its core, this is a traditional heist film, but it is presented in anything but a traditional manner. It's non-linear timeline and constant flashbacks and flash-forwards influenced many future filmmakers such as Quentin Tarantino and Christopher Nolan. For the era, this was incredibly unique and a bit experimental. In fact, the studio forced Kubrick to add the narrator post-production. The narrator is Art Gilmore, a prolific voice actor, who was heard in numerous movies, TV shows and previews.Support work is provided by many familiar character actors that we all recognize. Elisha Cook is best known for his work in The Maltese Falcon and Vince Edwards gained fame as TV's Ben Casey. There are two actresses of note here. Marie Windsor plays the scheming, double-crossing wife/girlfriend whom Hayden's character claims has a dollar sign right where her heart should be. Ms. Windsor appeared in Swamp Women, director Roger Corman's directorial debut. Coleen Gray plays Hayden's loyal girlfriend. Ms. Gray had a long, prolific career as an actress, but never achieved the stardom that many predicted.As viewers, we are included in most of the strategy involved in the heist and recognize many of the details as they occur. One of the more fascinating scenes is a staged bar fight featuring Kola Kwariani. This is a very unusually staged fight and is actually quite humorous today, with a touch of The Three Stooges. This was Mr. Kwariani's only film appearance and it's quite memorable for a professional wrestler! Another sequence that really stands out features Timothy Carey as a sharpshooter. His speech pattern is a bit bizarre, but we never doubt his commitment to the cause. Carey's character has a very daring exchange with a race track security guard that is even uncomfortable so many years later.Kubrick was groomed as a still photographer and his expert eye is obvious in each of his films. The approach to filming the horse racing scenes is spectacular, and stands in contrast to his love of stressed faces in close-ups. Supposedly Rodney Dangerfield appears as an extra during the bar fight, but I missed him. Probably need the DVD for that! This one is certainly worth checking out for a glimpse into early Kubrick and the screen magnetism of Sterling Hayden ... who 16 years later would break the jaw of Michael Corleone, and later be the victim of one of Hollywood's all-time death scenes in Louis restaurant.
Greetings again from the darkness. Is it revenge or a second chance? The double meaning of the title fits perfectly with this terrific, believable story. Nominated for Best Foreign Film last year, it is just now making its way to Dallas - one of the few downsides to not living in NYC.What I love is the subtle approach of the filmmaker, director Gotz Spielmann, who obviously is a keen observer of people - moreso, I would guess, than a film buff. As a viewer, we thoroughly believe this story would play out this way because these people are reacting to real situations.Johannes Krisch is captivating and powerful as Alex, one of the brutes working at a brothel. This is where he meets and falls for Tamara, played touchingly by Irina Potapenko. Alex hatches a plan that will allow the two to escape and start over. The plan goes well right up until the end. That's when things get really interesting.Alex is thrown unexpectedly into the real life of police officer Robert (Andreas Lust) and his wife Susanne (fascinating acting from Ursula Strauss). Alex drops out of society on his grandfather's (Johannes Thanheiser) farm. The coincidences lead to a touch of comedy and also some real soul searching from Robert, Susanne and Alex.The film could have ended about three different ways and I couldn't have been more happy with what we get. This is a rare film that should be seen by many more than will have the opportunity. That's a shame.
Greetings again from the darkness. Director Peter Hedges' best work is "Pieces of April", a very edgy family drama/comedy that I have recommended to many. Although "Dan in Real Life" doesn't possess anywhere near the edginess of that film, it is an entertaining film with some clever moments ... though it is much more mainstream (by design).Steve Carell stars as Dan, a widower father of three daughters. Just in case you have forgotten, the movie does remind you just how wicked teenage girls can be ... even the good ones. The film centers around the annual family reunion at the parents' (Dianne Weist, John Mahoney) beautiful summer house in Rhode Island. Although the film borrows material from many large family comdrams, there are a handful of moments and lines that prevent it from being a total remix. Odd casting does help.Dane Cook and Emily Blunt have supporting roles that are both very well done. Personally I find it difficult to ever really like Dane Cook, but he controls his freak pretty well here. Ms. Blunt is a budding star (see "The Devil Wears Prada") and sooner or later, Hollywood will find the right roles to showcase her talents. By far the most outside the box casting occurs with Juliette Binoche in the pivotal role of Marie. Not to give too much away, but she does give new meaning to brotherly love.Carell is fine and at least isn't falling into the one-trick pony career of Ben Stiller. He does have some range as an actor and hopefully will mix in a few dramas with the slapstick. Wouldn't call this anything close to a classic, but it is a movie families (not the youngsters) can watch together and be entertained ... nothing wrong with that.
Greetings again from the darkness. Director Robert Benton has only made 11 movies in 35 years. What is consistent with each of his films is the way he peels back the layers of humanity. He really explores the different personalities in people. Think of the Hoffman/Streep split in "Kramer vs. Kramer" and you will see the similarities with the break-up here of Greg Kinnear and Selma Blair. The number of intimate moments and personal insecurities are too many to count ... just like real life.Rarely do you see one partner slap the other in the midst of an affair when the one slapping is trying to lecture the soon-to-be-married other one that her morals need to be straightened out before she weds. In other words ... do as I say, not as I do. Another good story line involved two young broken people who try to accept that life and love can be good. Played well by Toby Hemingway and a stunning Alexa Davalos, the two lovers have overcome much in their lives and certainly appreciate the bond they have.The best story line in the film is the magic of Morgan Freeman and Jane Alexander, playing the oldest interracial couple I can remember seeing on film. They are both hurting deeply from the loss of a son, yet the strength of their relationship allows them to deal with grief in separate ways, while still being there for each other. Two excellent performances.The center of the film is the lovable, clueless, hopeless-romantic played by underrated actor Greg Kinnear. We see two relationships (Selma Blair and Radha Mitchell) end badly for him, yet he clings to his belief that LOVE is what it's all about.I like how the only kids involved in this real world mess are old enough to make their own decisions. It would have been easy to toss in a kid or two to tug even harder at the tear ducts, but this remained an adult story for adults ... and there are far too few of these. Be forewarned , this is no light-hearted chick flick. It could be termed a romantic drama but more accurately a human drama.
Greetings again from the darkness. Huge disappointment with no intelligence and only a modicum of style. Director Frances Lawrence has provided such previous gems as "Constantine" and a Britney Spears video, so I probably had unrealistic expectations.Will Smith stars as Dr. Robert Neville who believes he is the last survivor and only hope for a cure of the massive virus that has either killed off or infected all of mankind. These aren't your father's zombies ... they have super strength, speed and agility ... and be careful (Mr. Neville) not to underestimate their aptitude.Really can't come up with much good to say here as the film is all over the place and doesn't provide much of a study of solitude or genius ... and even the clashes are pretty mild (but loud). Alice Braga (niece of the great Sonia Braga) has a key role, but even that is anti-climatic.There are many better zombie movies, numerous more creative special effects movies, and for better solitude, check out "The Omega Man" or "Cast Away".
Greetings again from the darkness. It's not very often we get new releases from Martin Scorcese and Roman Polanski within a week of each other. And they are both thrillers. And both stories are immersed in water. And both have lead characters who might not be what they seem. Heck both films have PLENTY of characters who might not be what they seem! Say what you will about Mr. Polanski, he is a craftsmen when it comes to film. Rosemary's Baby, The Tenant and Chinatown are all classics. Here he works with the source material from Robert Harris' novel. The story is centered around the process of an ex-British Prime Minister writing his memoirs through the use of a ghost writer. Oh, this ex-Prime Minister is accused of being overly friendly with the U.S. and may have even committed war crimes? Sound familiar? Yes, Adam Lang, played convincingly by Pierce Brosnan, has numerous similarities to Tony Blair.Ewan McGregor plays the nameless ghost, actually a replacement for the original ghost, who died under suspicious circumstances. Polanski channels Hitchcock by making every character either a suspect or, at a minimum, suspicious. The use of water, rain, stark surroundings, cozy double-edged dialogue, and even a note passed in a key moment all evoke the master of suspense and thrills.Olivia Williams is Brosnan's tormented wife who remains oddly loyal and involved despite full acknowledgment of his mistress-assistant (another horrible performance from Kim Cattrall). Timothy Hutton is solid in his role as Brosnan's attorney, and James Belushi does much with the small role of publisher. Ninety-something year old Eli Wallach is very cool in his short scene and Tom Wilkinson adds another powerful turn to his sterling resume.All of these people could be the "who" in who-dunnit; however, we aren't even sure what the crime is. Or how many crimes have been committed. The only thing that keeps this one from being an instant classic is the lack of a truly complex web of intrigue. Don't get me wrong, it will keep you glued for the entire time, but I would have enjoyed a few more clues and dead-ends and real investigative work, rather than the stumbling curiosity of a ghost writer. Still, the story is strong enough and the acting is fine enough to make this one worth seeing. Need to also mention this score ... a fabulous score is a necessity in a thriller, and this one is top notch.
Greetings again from the darkness. Now this is a terrific premise for a sci-fi story. You have surely heard the phrase: Time is Money. Well in this world, Time is not just money, it is Life itself. Time is everything ... and it's displayed for all to see via a neon green counter on everyone's forearm.The film has an odd look. Vehicles look like modernized versions of 1970's classics, but fashion and other technology seems basically unchanged. Society is divided more severely than today. but the commentary is clear.All people live until 25 at which time they stop aging and the clock starts. They are given ONE year and are free to earn, gamble or spend their time ... heck, some even gamble. When your clock hit Zero, you drop dead immediately. So, the working class is isolated in time zones, running from place to place and taking extra shifts at the plant to pay the rent. The rich live in Connecticut and try to find ways to leisurely spend their days that will never end.Justin Timberlake plays Will Salas, one of the poor ones. In a scene that will have you scratching your head, Olivia Wilde plays his mom (remember, you stop aging at 25). Will has a chance meeting with Henry Hamilton (Matt Bomer) who has lived more than 100 years and still has more than a century left. After a deep, philosophical conversation, Will ends up with Henry's time and is a suspect in his murder.Will runs off to Connecticut and is pursued by the Timekeeper Police led by Cillian Murphy. Will ends up in the lavish home of Philippe Weiss (Vincent Katheiser from Mad Men) and falls for his daughter Sylvia (Amanda Seyfried). They end up on the lam and turn into the ultimate Time Bandits ... Robin Hood who steals time from the rich and distributes to the poor.While the premise is promising, some of the best stuff is left untouched. Henry Hamilton would have been a fascinating character to get a little more backstory on. Cillian Murphy's character is obviously talented and a bit burned out. It's a bit disconcerting to see most of the people in a movie to look all about the same age, but that's a very cool product of this society. As is the "big board" of time that looks eerily similar to the Stock Market boards we see that track movement every moment of the day. Time is precious and is of course watched over.Writer/director Andrew Niccol also brought us Gattaca and Lord of War. I would have liked this one to go a bit deeper, but it's fun to watch Timberlake and Seyfried playing Bonnie and Clyde. Thinking about this from a monetary standpoint is pretty interesting, but it also reminds us that there's never enough time!
Greetings again from the darkness. Sure, I have seen this film many times over the years, but just couldn't miss the chance to see it on the big screen courtesy of Fathom Events and Cinemark. Many critics consider this to be Alfred Hitchcock's last great film, and still others dismiss it as a lark. Hitchcock is known for his sterling career of suspense films, though this one is really categorized as horror.The writing pedigree is beyond reproach as it's based on a story by Daphne du Maurier with a screenplay from Evan Hunter. Dame du Maurier is considered one of the best writers of the twentieth century, and you might recognize Mr. Hunter's pen name - Ed McBain. He was quite famous for his detective stories (including the foundation for TV's "Hill Street Blues").There are really two parts to the film. The set-up involves some playful grown-up flirting between lawyer Mitch Brenner (Rod Taylor) and socialite Melanie Daniels (Tippi Hedren). The scene in the pet store is a treat to watch thanks to the banter between two attractive, intelligent, confident people. The tie-in with the love birds for Mitch's sister (Veronica Cartwright) is simple, yet brilliant. The extreme playfulness takes Hedren to Bodega Bay, California via her sleek Astin Martin.Hitchcock includes his common elements of feminine mystique as Mitch Brenner's world revolves around his omnipresent mother (Jessica Tandy), his younger sister (Cartwright), his ex-lover (Suzanne Pleschette) and now a new love interest in Hedren. There are some terrific scenes between Tandy (26 years prior to Driving Miss Daisy) and Hedren, but my favorites are those with Hedren and Pleschette. Pleschette was an underrated actress and is best known for her role in TV's "The Bob Newhart Show". Watching her face as Hedren talks on the phone to Taylor is classic frustration from an ex-lover.The second half of the film involves the terror of the bird attacks. Of course, the infamous scene of the kids running down the street being pecked by birds will make your skin crawl, and the scene where Hedren gets attacked in the bedroom is horrific and sends her into a breakdown. I really enjoy the scenes with the townspeople in the café. Some wonderful interchanges as they each tell bird stories. My favorite bird sequence in the film involves the empty playground equipment slowly taken over by birds as Hedren sits on the bench. Great stuff.Another interesting aspect of the film is the cast. Ms. Hedren (mother of Melanie Griffith) is still acting today (in her 80's), though I have never considered her anywhere near the level of actress of other Hitchcock blondes: Grace Kelly, Ingrid Bergman, Kim Novak, Janet Leigh, Doris Day, etc. Rod Taylor is also in his 80's now and was last seen on screen as Winston Churchill in Tarantino's Inglourious Basterds. Jessica Tandy had a long career and is best known for Driving Miss Daisy, and Veronica Cartwright went on to star in such films as Alien and The Right Stuff). The supporting cast is filled with familiar faces including a very young Morgan Brittany ("Dallas"), Malcolm Atterbury (as the Deputy), Ruth McDevitt (as the pet store owner) and one of my favorite actor names, Doodles Weaver (Sigourney's uncle).As you watch the film, you will notice that there is no traditional score. Instead, we are treated to an assortment of bird effects which cue us in to the level of danger. Hitchcock was always a master of guiding the viewer right along the path he wanted. This film has some unusual pacing and a few wide shots that are quite rare for his films. To me, it proves that he was always experimenting, yet with an innate ability to know how the audience would react. A true craftsmen. (www.moviereviewsfromthedark.wordpress.com)
Greetings again from the darkness. Such an odd experience ... watching an old Woody Allen for the first time. Well that's the best way I can describe this. The script was from the 70's and certainly, Mr. Allen made a few changes to make it fit the 21st century, but still we can't help but think it's 1977 all over again ... especially since Woody has been away from NYC for awhile.Larry David is cast in the "Woody Allen" role and does his best to bring his Curb Your Enthusiasm delivery. The only problem, his character here, Boris Yellnikoff, is just a very bitter, abusive, negative force ... so even some of the best comedic moments are a bit tainted by the mean spiritedness.Evan Rachel Wood has been a star in the making since "Thirteen" and really brings a new dimension not just to her career, but also the film. Her runaway southern belle is a flat out hoot. When her parents (Patricia Clarkson and Ed Begley, Jr.) arrive, we gain some insight into Allen's thought process ... he thinks NYC is the be all and end all ... and can even enlighten those southern "crackers".Mr. Allen has always been obsessed with three topics ... dying, sex and intellect, and all three are on prominent display here. He really has an innate ability to exaggerate life subtleties and slap us upside the head in his films. I believe his message is that the big picture of life is overwhelming and disheartening, but as individuals, we can each find happiness.
Greetings again from the darkness. Ever since The Blair Witch Project and the influence of "found footage", which then transitioned into the endless sequels for Paranormal Activity, true creativity and ingenuity has been mostly lacking from the horror genre. One of those still devoted to creeping us out and generating seat jumping is Guillermo del Toro, who produced this film after seeing writer/director Andres Muschietti's three minute short film.Since the real joy in experiencing a horror film comes from the surprises and twists, very few details will be revealed here. Worth noting is the lead role of Annabel played by the incredibly talented Jessica Chastain. Yes, the same one who is currently nominated for her role in Zero Dark Thirty. This time out, Ms. Chastain is a tatted up bass player in a (lousy) punkish band and sporting a Joan Jett hairdo. Annabel is living a bohemian lifestyle (translation: nearly starving with no responsibilities) with her artist boyfriend Lucas, played by Nikolaj Coaster-Waldau, whom many will recognize from Game of Thrones, and who appeared in the superb Headhunters (one of my favorites of 2012).Many horror film clichés are presented here including a cabin in the woods, a portal to the afterlife, buzzing bugs, unexplained lullaby singing through the air vents, an untimely "fall" down the stairs by a key character and ties to a long ago tragedy that holds the key to this current mess. Notable is the welcome absence of gross out and gore-out special effects. Despite the clichés, Muschietti and his co-writing sister Barbara, and Neil Cross provide us with some new touches (uncovering maternal instincts) and such a great looking movie that our attention is firmly held ... especially for the first 80%. As happens so frequently, the final act is a bit disappointing, but not enough to ruin the experience.Chastain is top notch here. Coaster-Waldau is underutilized. The two young girls are effectively portrayed by Megan Charpentier (Victoria) and Isabelle Nelisse (Lily). In fact, Lily scampering about on all fours may be as frightening as the spooky Mama, played by 7 foot actor Javier Botet. It's an unconventional horror film with an atypical ending, and certainly worth a look if you are a fan of the genre.
Greetings again from the darkness. Sometimes the line between reality and fantasy is blurred. In the moment, daydreams can feel like real life. Such is the existence of Walter Mitty, the milquetoast main character of James Thurber's 1939 "New Yorker" short story. This is no remake of Danny Kaye's 1947 movie, and thank goodness for that ... no one wants to see Ben Stiller singing and dancing. Mr. Stiller not only takes on the role of the zoned out Mitty, but he also directs (quite effectively).Walter is a quiet, photo lab geek at Life Magazine, the long time publication that is closing its doors. Of course, in real life, those doors closed years ago, but the magazine name makes for the perfect contradiction to Mitty's existence. The transition team is in place led by the snide, bearded corporate presence of Adam Scott. Photographer extraordinaire Sean O'Connell (played by Sean Penn) has delivered the perfect shot for the final cover. Only one problem: Walter has misplaced it.This gaffe leads Walter to cross paths with a co-worker played by Kristen Wiig, whom he has secretly admired both across the office and by staring at her eHarmony profile online. Their investigative work leads Walter on the first real journey of his life. He even breaks free of the family bond of his mom (Shirley MacLaine) and sister (Kathryn Hahn) and gets a pep talk and well timed boost from Patton Oswalt.Walter's expedition leads him to Greenland, Iceland, the Himalayas, and Afghanistan by way of Yemen. He also encounters a wild helicopter pilot and ride, sharks, an erupting volcano, drinking beer from giant glass boots, a sad and aggressive Karoke singer, and takes a speedy ride via skateboard. Rather than changing Walter, these experiences just bring out a lust for life that was previously only flashed through his periods of fantasy zone outs.The acting is very strong in this one, and that comes from a guy who is not much of a Stiller fan. His beaten down demeanor and stone-faced expressions are spot on for the Mitty role. Ms. MacLaine, Ms. Hahn, Mr. Oswalt and Mr. Scott all add very nice comedic touches and Sean Penn captures the rugged fearlessness of a world weary photographer who recognizes the depth of Mitty.If you are a fan of Thurber's short story then you must know artistic license is taken to turn it in to full length feature. Screenwriter Steven Conrad provides Life magazine as a foundation, and some of the most beautiful places on earth during the journey. He even gives us a poetry falcon (my first) and a parody of Benjamin Button (a bit out of place). Cinematographer Stuart Dryburgh delivers these locations to us in stunning fashion. The film is beautiful to look, and thanks to the score from Theodore Shapiro, it's complimented by well fitting music.This is one of those crowd-pleasing movies filled with sentimentality and charm. Critics will bash it, but most of us can relate to the underdog lead and his delusions of grandeur. www.MovieReviewsFromTheDark.wordpress.com
Greetings again from the darkness. While not a historical expert, I commend writer James Solomon for his years of research into a fascinating, yet quite dark moment in America. Many have attempted to couch the film as presenting Mary Surratt as an innocent bystander. I would argue that the film is much less about her innocence or guilt, and much more about the state of our country's leaders and the judicial system at the time of Lincoln's assassination.I found the two strongest elements of the film causing quite an internal conflict as I watched. First, the film is simply gorgeous. Costumes, props, sets and lighting all lead to a texture that puts the viewer right into the mid 1860's. Second, the courtroom (and backroom) procedures generate a feeling of disgust. Although, we have had very recent examples of less-than-stellar judicial process in the U.S., we Americans still hold on to the belief that ours is the best and fairest system around.It was very interesting to see Kevin Kline as War Secretary Edwin Stanton. Stanton was the guy calling the shots during this time and evidently had quite a power hold on the military, as well as the government. His viewpoint that the country needed a swift and decisive conclusion to this tragedy makes absolute sense ... unless you happened to be one of the accused, or their legal counsel.The lead actors in the film do a very nice job of capturing their characters and holding us in time. In addition to Mr. Kline, James McAvoy plays Frederick Aiken, the Union war hero and reluctant defense attorney for Mary Surratt. Tom Wilkinson plays Senator Reverdy Johnson who, as Aiken's mentor, recognizes all elements of the procedures. Evan Rachel Wood portrays Anna Surratt, Mary's daughter. She has few scenes, but each is quite powerful. Danny Huston is Joseph Holt, the prosecuting attorney, who clearly has free reign to do whatever is necessary to ensure a guilty verdict. Other supporting work is provided by Toby Kebbell (John Wilkes Booth), Norman Reedus (from Boondock Saints), Stephen Root, Johnny Simmons and Colm Meaney. The two miscast roles are courtesy of Alexis Bledel and Justin Long.I found Robin Wright's stoic portrayal of Mary Surratt to be quite mesmerizing. Her strength and motherly insistence on protecting her son was absolutely believable. In my opinion she should gather consideration for an Oscar nomination when the time comes. This is not a showy performance, but rather the foundation of the story.Lighting of the time was thanks to candles and lanterns, and director Robert Redford masterfully captures that on film. We are always hoping for a bit more light on the characters or in the courtroom. Instead we get the feeling of being present. I did find some of the "buddy scenes" to be unnecessary, but the scenes with Wilkinson and Kline more than offset this weakness.This is the first film from The American Film Company, whose mission is to present historically accurate films on American history. If their initial entry is an indication, we anxiously await their next projects.
Greetings again from the darkness. Movie versions of beloved books are always a risky proposition. Devotees of the written word recoil in disgust when a filmmaker dares re-imagine a character or scene, while critics take delight in itemizing each and every stray from the source material. Director Baz Luhrmann is an artist. His canvas is the silver screen, and he thrives in presenting his interpretations and visions. When he agreed to take on F Scott Fitzgerald's 88 year old masterpiece  one that consistently lands on the lists of top ten novels of all-time  he most assuredly prepared for the onslaught of criticism and outrage that would follow (and has). He must have also known that his work would delight and entertain those open-minded viewers not shackled to thoughts of a single "correct" form (it has).If you have seen Luhrmann's Moulin Rouge! (2001) or Romeo + Juliet (1996), then you are prepared for a Gatsby vision significantly different from director Jack Clayton's somber and oft-dreary version starring Robert Redford and Mia Farrow. Taking a different route altogether, Luhrmann worked with Jay-Z on the soundtrack that mixes Roaring 20's jazz classics with contemporary hip-hop. He worked with award-winning Costume Designer Catherine Martin (his wife) on creating a kaleidoscope of colors for dazzling outfits that range from Gatsby's pastel suits to the glitzy and sparkling party dresses at his over-the-top parties. Additionally, Luhrmann invoked the newest 3-D technology to add even more emphasis to the visual spectacle that included free-flowing champagne, high-gloss and high-powered automobiles screaming down narrow roads, sky-filling fireworks, and enough glittery confetti to stop down a parade. Jay Gatsby may know how to throw party, but so does Baz Luhrmann.Knowing this movie was coming soon, I re-read Fitzgerald's novel back in January. While I was once again struck by the depressing feeling it leaves you with (it is after all a tragedy), I was also reminded of what stunning prose the writer lays out. At times I find it borders on poetry. You may agree with many of the 1925 critics who claimed the characters are unlikeable and the plot has little to offer, though you must also acknowledge the work acts as a timeless reminder that the vast majority of us could never come close to writing something as beautiful.The cast members are talented and game for Luhrmann's world. Leonardo DiCaprio infuses the Gatsby character with the uncertainty and teetering balance of secrecy that Redford never could. His obsession with Daisy (Carey Mulligan) may be difficult to understand, but then why should obsessive love make sense? Joel Edgerton (as Daisy's husband Tom) is a womanizing brute who sets his own inherited wealth and culture as far apart as East and West Egg. Tobey Maguire's Nick Carraway is our lone claim to normalcy. He is thrust into the Gatsby world and never really understands it  but then who could? The Carraway character is my single biggest complaint in regards to the movie. The framing device of Nick writing the story down for his psychiatrist as part of his therapy, means we get entirely too much Tobey Maguire and Nick Carraway for my tastes.It's also a bit disappointing that we get so little of the strong supporting cast: Isla Fisher as Myrtle, Jason Clarke as Myrtle's husband, and especially Bollywood star Amitabh Bachchan as Meyer Wolfsheim and newcomer Elizabeth Debricki as Jordan Baker are seen and heard from entirely too few times. In fact, the Nick and Jordan connection from the book is mostly ignored. These are all fabulous actors who did what they could with the characters, but we should remind ourselves that Fitzgerald's book was always more about the prose than the characters or plot. He told us what he wanted us to know more than have his characters show us. That was his art form. Baz Luhrmann's art form is showing  and his show is quite a treat!
Greetings again from the darkness. Tracy Letts had a very nice year in 2008. He won the Pulitzer Prize and a Tony for writing the play August: Osage County. Since then, he has also written the play and screenplay for Killer Joe, and been seen as an actor in the key role of a Senator in the TV show "Homeland". This time out, he adapts his own play for director John Wells' (The Company Men, TV's "ER") screen version of August: Osage County.With an ensemble cast matched by very few movies over the years, the screen version begins with what may be its best scene. Weston family patriarch and published poet Beverly (the always great Sam Shepard) is interviewing Johnna for a position as cook and housekeeper when they are interrupted in stunning fashion by Violet (Meryl Streep), Beverly's acid-tongued wife who is showing the effects of chemotherapy and her prescription drug addiction. This extraordinary pre-credits scene sets the stage for the entire movie, which unfortunately only approaches this high standard a couple more times.Despite the film's flaws, there is no denying the "train-wreck" effect of not being able to look away from this most dysfunctional family. Most of this is due to the screen presence of a steady stream of talented actors: in addition to Streep and Shephard, we get their 3 daughters played by Julia Roberts (Barbara), Julianne Nicholson (Ivy) and Juliette Lewis (Karen); Ewan McGregor and Abigail Breslin as Roberts' husband and daughter; Margo Martindale (Violet's sister), her husband Chris Cooper (Charles) and their son Benedict Cumberbatch.As with most dysfunctional family movies, there is a dinner table scene ... this one occurring after a funeral. The resentment and regret and anger on display over casseroles is staggering, especially the incisive and "truth-telling" Violet comments and the defensive replies from Barbara. As time goes on, family secrets and stories unfold culminating in a whopper near the end. This is really the polar opposite of a family support system.Meryl Streep's performance is one of the most demonstrative of her career. Some may call it over the top, but I believe it's essential to the tone of the movie and the family interactions. Her exchanges with Julia Roberts define the monster mother and daughter in her image theme. They don't nitpick each other, it's more like inflicting gaping wounds. Surprisingly, Roberts mostly holds her own ... though that could be that the film borders on campy much of the time. Streep's scene comes as she recalls the most horrific childhood Christmas story you could ever want to hear.It must be noted that Margo Martindale is the real highlight here. She has two extraordinary scenes ... each very different in style and substance ... and she nails them both. Without her character and talent, this film could have spun off into a major mess. The same could be said for Chris Cooper, who is really the moral center of the family. While the others seem intent on hiding from their past, he seems to make the best of his situation.The film never really captures the conflicting environments of the old Weston homestead and the wide open plains of Oklahoma. The exception is a pretty cool post-funeral scene in a hayfield where Roberts tells Streep "There's no place to go". The main difference between the film version and stage version is the compressed time and the decision to include all explosive scenes. There is just little breathing room here. Still, it's one of the more entertaining and wild dysfunctional comedy-dramas that you will see on screen, and it's quite obvious this group of fine actors thoroughly enjoyed the ensemble experience.
Greetings again from the darkness. Attended a screening last evening and came away a bit surprised. The preview, thanks in part to Ida Maria's blaring "Oh My God", had me convinced this was going to be a typical slapstick teen comedy. Instead, co-writers and co-directors Anna Boden and Ryan Fleck deliver a black comedy-drama that has appeal to both teens and grown-ups.The story revolves around Craig, a 16 year old who is feeling depressed and suicidal given the pressures of a relentless father, looming college entrance exams and a screwed up social life. You are right if you are thinking this sounds like just about every 16 year old on the planet. The difference here is that Craig checks himself into a psych ward ... he ends up in the adult wing, as the teen wing is undergoing renovations. Craig is played by Keir Gilchrist, who I can best describe as a young Keanu Reeves clone, only too smart rather than too clueless.Since this is a comedy, you can imagine the characters who fill the ward. Craig bonds with Bobby, played by Zach Galifianakis, who seems happy to play the mentor role for Cool Craig, but just can't seem to find the strength to live his own life. Of course, we also get the emotionally damaged hot girl played exceptionally well by Emma Roberts (daughter of Eric, niece of Julia; Nancy Drew). The film accepts its own stereotypes for the other characters with labels such as "the schizophrenic".The message of the film seems to be that we all go through stages of doubt and uncertainty, and the best "cure" is to somehow remove the stress and discover our real talents and personality. You may end up creating art in the form of a brain map, or even a music video of Bowie/Queen's "Under Pressure" (an elaborate inset to the film).The filmmakers appeared to struggle with where their line was for the direction of the story. With previous films "Half-Nelson" and "Sugar", my guess is their vision was a much more complex and darker script rather than the final version which has more mass appeal. The Zach Galifianiakis character specifically, seemed poised to make a real statement. Instead we are left with his reserved, knowing smile as Craig presents him a gift and the hope of getting together for ping pong. Also, not much story is given to Emma Roberts and her penchant for cutting herself. She seems magically cured after a roof top encounter with Craig. Anyway, the comedy sections are more successful than the drama sections, provided you are able to find humor in the illness and weakness of others.This is certainly not at the level of "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest", but it is an entertaining film from a comedic perspective. It will probably be remembered as Zach Galifianiakis fist role where he flashed some real acting chops, and hopefully as Emma Roberts breakout role.
Greetings again from the darkness. I really enjoyed the originality of the basic story here, but originality is not sufficient .. this one needed some script doctoring prior to filming.Paul Giamatti delivers another fine, hangdog, long-suffering turn as, well, Paul Giamatti. Exasperated with his general outlook on life, he does some research into the company who removes the soul from those like him. David Strathairn is the doctor at the soul removal clinic and he plays the knowledgeable, caring professional to perfection.At different times, this one will remind of Being John Malkovich, Eternal Sunshine of Spotless Mind, and Total Recall, it never really delivers the depth or entertainment value of any of these. It's almost as if first time feature director Sophie Barthes has so many ideas that it became more important to include them all, rather than refine the best.As for sci-fi, this one is worth seeing, but ranks behind Moon as this year's best in the genre.
Greetings again from the darkness. The worst thing you can say about a movie ... comedy or drama ... is that it is boring. George Clooney's "Leatherheads" goes beyond boredom straight into snooze-fest. Attempting to follow in the footsteps of the great Preston Sturges and Howard Hawks screwball comedies, just two things are missing: screwball antics and comedy dialogue.One of the best ever writers from Sports Illustrated, Rick Reilly, was a collaborator and writer of the script. I am disappointed and embarrassed for him. Same for George Clooney, who probably could have pulled off the mugging if he hadn't tried to direct as well. Quite a fall off from his "Good Night and Good Luck".Toss in bland John Krazinski ("The Office") as the football hero with a secret and the impossible to like Renee Zellweger as the spunky newspaper writer and it truly is a recipe for disaster.Best part of the movie is a couple of shots of Randy Newman playing piano during a rowdy barroom brawl. The outline of the story showed promise, but the execution proves unfunny, without merit and ultimately a waste of time for all.
Greetings again from the darkness. Director Ron Howard is back jabbing at the catholics with help from Dan Brown's prequel to DaVinci Code. This time it is a full out action film and Tom Hanks as Professor Robert Langdon shares some attitude with Indiana Jones! Italy in general, and Vatican City in particular, make for stunning scenery for this assault on the senses. The to-scale set of St. Peter's is marvelous, as are the not open to the public areas of catacombs and Vatican archives. Can't help but enjoy seeing the historic sites as Hanks and Ayelet Zurer (Vantage Point) race through the city trying to stop the massacre of four cardinals.Supporting work from Stellan Skarsgard and Armin Mueller-Stahl is particularly effective, though Ewen McGregor is out of place here. Mueller-Stahl's recent history of playing bad guys certainly plays right into the hands of the filmmakers. Don't miss Ron Howard's dad, Rance, as one of the Cardinals. Sadly, brother Clint makes no appearance.My preference of this story would be more intrigue and insight into the secret society of the Illuminati, and I do wish more of the Roman sites could be on display ... but this is terrific popcorn fare and will be enjoyable for most. Don't miss the amazing music playing over the closing credits.
Greetings again from the darkness. So many personalities! Yes, there are a staggering number of characters played by a who's who of actors, but it's the movie itself that flashes the most personalities. It is quite a mixture of historical events, the Civil Rights movement, family drama, generational differences, Presidential evolution, emotional wrangling, and Oscar posturing.Forest Whitaker portrays Cecil Gaines, the man who worked his way up from being a childhood plantation slave to the highest level of butler within The White House ... a gig that spanned 34 years and eight Presidents. The story is based on the real life story of Eugene Allen, who had a front row seat to dramatic historical events and major social changes ... all while wearing white gloves and tuxedo.While the movie has plenty of emotional moments, in my opinion it could have been even stronger had it committed more time to either Cecil's long run in The White House or the father-son generational struggles between Cecil and his desperate-for-change son played with fire by David Oyelowo (from Freedom Rider to Black Panther). Instead there is much wasted time on superficial Presidential interactions and a needless side story of adultery involving Cecil's wife (Oprah Winfrey) and his friend (Terrence Howard).Director Lee Daniels obviously has many friends who wanted to be part of this one. The incredible cast includes Mariah Carey (making up for Glitter), Alex Pettyfer (as a brutal slave owner), Vanessa Redgrave (Cecil's first serving trainer), Clarence Williams III (Cecil's ultra cool mentor), Nelson Ellis as Martin Luther King, and Cuba Gooding Jr and Lenny Kravitz (as fellow White House butlers). The most blatant slap in the face of Conservatives comes from the casting of extreme Democrat John Cusack playing Richard Nixon and Jane Fonda as Nancy Reagan. Other Presidents are played by Robin Williams (Dwight Eisenhauer), James Marsden (John F Kennedy), Liev Schreiber (LBJ), and Alan Rickman (Ronald Reagan). The constant game of spot the star is a bit distracting at times, but not as much as one might guess. It's just a shame that most get very little story or screen time.As for Oprah Winfrey, she is getting much love for her performance including some Oscar chatter. What I saw was a performance that was solid, but distracting due to the lack of aging in comparison to her husband (Whitaker). She changes very little (except for costumes) from the beginning until the very end when she definitely goes into heavy make-up for the Obama election. On a personal note, watching 1970's era Oprah shaking her booty to "Soul Train" was an image I did not need.Again, my favorite scenes were the ones between father and son ... Whitaker and Oyelowo. Seeing these two generations struggle so much to understand each other and interpret the world in such different ways proved quite powerful. It's always painful and embarrassing to re-live the horrible manner in which African-Americans were treated, but even moreso when it's tied to a father-son relationship.
Greetings again from the darkness. Director Michael Bay is to film what Scott Boras is to Baseball. And that ain't good. This is just a loud cartoon of a movie with some of the worst dialogue ever uttered by an upright man or machine.The key players are back. Shia LeBeouf, Megan Fox and John Tuturro pick up their battle against evil and somehow survive when others get easily mangled and killed. After the first 4 or 5 hours I began to just laugh each time they managed to re-do Megan Fox' make-up in the middle of an action sequence. Yes, I realize this isn't supposed to be Saving Private Ryan, but how many pouty poses would most people have if they were in any of these situations.Shia's parents, Kevin Dunn and Julie White, play a big role in the attempts at humor ... including some lame ass 1970's joke about "green" brownies. ugh.
Greetings again from the darkness. A spin-off of the British series The Thick of it, this film comes across as an odd mixture of Dr Strangelove, Spinal Tap, The Office ... think Christopher Guest remakes The West Wing. There are some incredibly funny lines and therein lies the films only problem.What prevents the film from being truly great is that the comedy lines are so well written (and acted) that the story itself is shoved aside. Kind of a shame because I love the basis for the story. Combining the politics of both the U.S. and England and weaving their process and decision making into one film ... and then backdropping the decision on whether to go to war, is ingenious and fascinating. But as I said, the story takes a real backseat and many viewers will pay scant attention to the entire war theme. Watching politicians negotiate for power and struggle with quotable (yet meaningless) phrases is a hoot. And the posturing is not limited to the power brokers, as we see their assistants are playing the same game ... just with less at stake.Ultimately the film works as an aggressive, loud, foul mouthed quote fest and not so much as the political editorial it could/should have been. Peter Capaldi dominates the film as the spin doctor who uses intimidation to mask his schemes. Tom Hollander would have been the soul of the film, if it were better developed as a story. All will recognize him from Pirates of Caribbean. James Gandolfini, Mimi Kennedy, David Rasche and James Gandolfini provide the U.S. contingency that are deflatingly realistic and make us so "proud". Don't miss a funny turn by the great Steve Coogan as the poor citizen who just wants his mum's retaining wall repaired so it doesn't crush her in the greenhouse. While certainly not woven seamlessly into the film, it does provide a shot of realism for what Hollander's character would face.Lastly, it is very nice to see Anna Chlumsky back on screen. An immediate child star in My Girl ... remember her kiss with Maculey Culkin? Ms. Chlumsky is now a mature presence and should definitely be a consistent actress for years to come.
Greetings again from the darkness. There are a few great writers. There are a few great directors. There are very few great writer/directors. Susannah Grant has been known for her strong writing of "In Her Shoes" and "Erin Brokovich". Here her first real attempt at directing is not helped by her less than inspired script.Never really sure if it aspires to be a statement on loss and human weakness or an awkwardly tender humorous love story, the film rambles along as if every day of production was unrelated to the those previous. Jennifer Garner (fresh off birthing a real life baby) is actually at her best in the opening scenes as she grieves over the loss of her fiancé. She doesn't fare quite so well in subsequent love scenes. Timothy Olyphant ("Deadwood") spends most of the film posing and grinning (with extraordinarily white teeth) at Garner. Kevin Smith is the comic relief and the endless stream of fat jokes grows tiresome quickly. Still Smith supplies a couple of the best moments in the film. Juliette Lewis is back with her customary weirdness, this time with kid in tow.The two best parts of the film are the few amazing shots featuring the natural beauty of Boulder, Colorado and the nice little soundtrack with some real gems. Looking more like a Lifetime movie than a Hollywood release, this one lacks substance and depth. Here's hoping Ms. Grant's ego has been fed and she returns to her talent of writing quality stories.
Greetings again from the darkness. It's been 30 years. The movie hasn't changed. I remember every scene. So that means it's ME that has changed. While I really liked the movie on its 1984 release, it's only now that I truly appreciate the brilliance of the script, the music, the direction, the photography and the acting  much less the wide range of emotions.Director Wim Wenders has long been a favorite at Cannes Film Festival, and this one took home the prestigious Palme d'Or. Since then, the film has often been mentioned as one of the best movies of the 1980's, and after this most recent screening (courtesy of the Dallas Film Society), I wholeheartedly concur.Opening in a most unusual manner  the lead character comes stumbling out of the Texas dessert and doesn't utter a word for the first 20-25 minutes  this film immediately strikes you as something unique  definitely not cookie cutter. Trying to outguess the script is a waste of time. It's best to just watch it unfold in a believable and sometimes awkward way.In a rare lead role, long time character actor Harry Dean Stanton plays Travis. We soon enough learn that Travis disappeared four years ago leaving behind a wife and young son. We also learn that his brother Walt (Dean Stockwell) and Walt's wife Anne (Aurore Clement) have been taking care of the boy, and Hunter (Hunter Carson) considers them his parents (his mom ran off too).Walt and Anne invite Travis to stay with them and re-connect with his son, but they are caught off guard when the two really click and they take off to find Jane, the wife/mother. Their charming (but less-than-professional) stakeout leads to the discovery that Jane is working in a sex shop, spending her days talking to a 2 way mirror with lonely men she can't see. One of the most remarkable on screen soliloquies ever seen occurs on Travis' second trip to see Jane (Natassja Kinski). It's a heartfelt story that plays out as an explanation, an apology, and a plan for moving forward. It's his way of making reparations and finally doing the right thing (as he sees it).As with most classic films, the backstory offers some interesting tidbits and the players are fun to catch up with. This story was originally written by the great Sam Shepard. Mr. Shepard is a Pulitzer Prize winner, an award winning playwright, and well known actor (Oscar nominated for playing Chuck Yeager in The Right Stuff). Director Wenders then brought in L.M. "Kit" Carson to add and revise the script while on set. Carson's son (with actress Karen Black) Hunter plays the boy in the film, and he delivers one of the best, least affected, child performances of all time. Kit went on to write the screenplay for The Texas Chainsaw Massacre 2 (1986) and had a significant acting role in Running on Empty (1988). His son Hunter is still a working actor today. Mr. Wenders was one of the German New Wave of directors along with Herzog and Fassbinder, and his Wings of Desire (1987) would make a terrific double feature with this one. Mr. Stockwell was a very successful child actor in the 1940's and is best known for his work in Blue Velvet and TV's Quantum Leap. Ms. Kinski is the daughter of Klaus Kinski and is fondly remembered for her roles in Tess (1979) and Cat People (1982), though she still works today as well. Harry Dean Stanton is now 88 years old. He served in WWII and was present during the Battle of Okinawa. His acting career began in the 1950's and he still works periodically today. In addition to nearly 200 acting credits, he has had a pretty nice career as a musician. His band built a large cult following. Some of his most popular acting roles have been in Cool Hand Luke, The Godfather II, Alien, Repo Man, Escape From New York and Pretty in Pink. The music in the film is provided by Ry Cooder, who is a tremendous slide guitarist and has worked with some of the all-time greats in the music business  The Rolling Stones, Van Morrison and Neil Young, among others. Cooder is a multi-Grammy winner and re-teamed with Wenders for the Oscar nominated Buena Vista Social Club a few years later. The music is an exceptional compliment to the movie, as is the camera work of Robby Muller, who also works frequently with Wenders.This story of loss and loneliness is an easy one to overlook, but when a film holds up well for 30 years  and affects you differently depending on your own lot in life  its legacy is secure.
Greetings again from the darkness. Get ready for a new brand of Marvel movie heroes. You surely know Iron Man, Captain America, Thor and Hulk, but it's high time you are introduced to Peter Quill, Rocket Raccoon, Gamora, Groot and Drax. Instead of dark, gloomy and super-serious, these guys aren't just funny ... they are actually FUN! The plot is admittedly a bit simple. Everyone involved is basically chasing a ball (the orb) around the galaxy. Instead of good guys vs bad guys, it's actually kinda bad guys vs really bad guys. See, the heroes of our story are for the most part criminals themselves. The main difference is, they aren't after intergalactic super power and mega destruction like Ronan (Lee Pace). Ronan makes for a pretty menacing villain, especially with a voice that shook the theatre! The band of misfits thrown together by circumstance actually provide much entertainment. Chris Pratt ("Parks and Recreation") is the self-nicknamed Star-Lord, better known as Peter Quill. The film begins in 1988 as Quill's mother dies and he is abducted by aliens. His criminal activity has him crossing paths with Gamora, a green assassin played by Zoe Saldana; Rocket, a brilliant, wise-cracking raccoon voiced by Bradley Cooper; Rocket's bodyguard Groot, an unusually mobile and talented tree voiced by Vin Diesel; and the hulking, knife-wielding Drax the Destroyer who is bent on revenge, and played by WWE star Dave "The Animal" Bautista. It's a rag-tag group of heroes unlike anything you have seen before.Despite the lack of familiarity with these characters most viewers will bring, writer/director James Gunn (Slither) works wonders in having us quickly connect and even groot ... err, I mean ... root for these guys. Quill's possession of a Sony Walkman to play his mother's mix tape from the 1970's and 80's gives the film a very different flavor, as the familiar songs pop up at just the right time.Pratt does an admirable job in the lead, and though compared to the GQ Tony Stark/Iron Man he is more Mad Magazine, his Quill is funny and easy to like. The best comparison I have for Quill is Han Solo, and for the film I would say it hearkens back to 1978's Superman ... both very high compliments. It's also the first time I have been completely caught off guard and laughed outloud at a Jackson Pollock reference.
Greetings again from the darkness. This is one of those movies that made me feel a bit guilty for not liking it more than I did. It seemed to set up as the type of story I would like, but something is missing. It is just too simple ... almost dumbed down for the audience.Part of it could be contributed to the cast of solid, if unspectacular, character actors. Alan Rickman and Bill Pullman are both fine, but Chris Pine and Rachael Taylor certainly didn't come through in their important roles. And Freddy Rodriguez and Miguel Sandoval are given almost nothing to do except strut on a motorcycle and listen to Maria Callas, respectively. This little side story had the most potential but instead we get about 3 or 4 boxing matches between father Pullman and wayward son Pine. Enough ... we get it.Based on a true and pretty amazing story, the film could have had much more depth and not gone for the easy laugh so often. Is there anything funny about the pretty girl flashing her breasts while hitch-hiking or putting the long-haired rebel in the middle of a stuffy country club? Yes ... quite a few things are funnier than these stale bits. And then on top of everything, Dennis Farina's caricature of an American mooching off the snob, gets old really quickly ... and then, for some unknown reason, is taken totally over the top.Still, despite its numerous faults, there is enough of the real story here to hold our interest and I bet you will find yourself wanting a glass of wine!
Greetings again from the darkness. Director Robert Luketic has never been able to recapture the charm of his Legally Blonde film, which in fact, was only charming due to Reece Witherspoon. Since then: Tad Hamilton, Monster in Law, 21 and now this wretched project. The battle of the sexes can be funny, but not in a tired cliché, slap you upside the head, hey let's throw in some raunchy stuff way.Katherine Heigl (Grey;s Anatomy) has somehow become the least desirable beautiful woman on planet earth. Could be that her characters are all the same - unlikeable! I thought she was really good in a little film called Side Effects, but since then has devolved into a 30 yr old wench.Gerard Butler somehow manages to maintain a bit of dignity in the film. A true man;s man in 300, he has proved to be mainstream enough in PS, I Love You and now this one ... he just needs a better script, director and supporting cast.Speaking of supporting cast, aside from a couple of chuckles from the talented Cheryl Hines and John Michael Higgins, did anyone stop to think that an interesting side character or sub-plot might help? Or did they assume only simple minded women would even pay to see this? Either way, the only way it could have been worse is with a horrible soundtrack .... ummm ... yep, you got it ... pure garbage. I am done.
Greetings again from the darkness. For those of us who enjoy trying to make sense of the unexplainable, M. Night Shyamalan is one filmmaker for whom we always hold out hope. Wisely backing away from the director's chair this time, Mr. Shyamalan created the story and produced the film. While not extraordinary, it is one of his best in quite awhile.The beauty of the story is its simplicity. It is actually presented to us in the form of folk legend through the narrator. Basically, the devil sometimes takes human form and proceeds to steal souls ... often in the process, innocent (and not so innocent) people are killed. Here five seemingly random people end up in the same elevator and all hell breaks loose (literally). The detective called to the scene is battling his own internal demons and, of course, that plays a major role in how the story develops and ends.A mechanic (Logan Marshall-Green), a young woman (Bojana Novakic from "Drag Me To Hell"), an old woman (Jenny O'Hara), a security guard (Bokeem Woodbine) and a mattress salesman (Geoffrey Arend) are joined together in the claustrophobic nightmare of a stuck elevator. One by one, each is affected. All the while distrust abounds. Chris Messina plays the talented detective trying to rescue them and fruitlessly apply logic to the unexplained happenings occurring right before his eyes.The film begins with an extended, disorienting upside-down view of downtown Philly, and then proceeds to take us through some unusual camera angles into the building, down the elevator shaft and into the lobby. This is our initial intro to the unlucky five. It's a very interesting start to an entertaining thriller.The director is John Erick Dowdle ("Quarantine") and he does an effective job of creating fear within the confined space of the elevator. He manages to create camera angles despite the lack of space. The use of the security camera and booth is brilliant and allows the viewer to be both inside and outside ... both are frightening in their own way. Welcome back, Mr. Shyamalan!
Greetings again from the darkness. It is difficult to imagine a more heinous crime than killing one's own child. Writer/director Phillippe Claudel understands this and certainly uses it to his advantage in the film.Count me onboard with the hoopla surrounding Kristin Scott Thomas' performance. She exudes isolation, inner turmoil and loneliness. Watching her ever-so-slow return to civilization is realistic and painful ... both for her and the viewer. Her physical looks (dowdy and dreary with dark circles); her mannerisms (always clutching and covering up); and her speech (mostly grunts, nods and monosyllabic answers) combine for a terrific dramatic turn.I found it most interesting how she was initially drawn towards the police captain, who turned out to be as miserable as she; and the grandfather, who could only communicate through post it notes. Her small shots of comfort came through these most unusual sources, at least until she began to trust life again.Elsa Zylberstein (one of the worst screen names) is not garnering much attention for her critical role as Juliette's sister. Personally, I thought she was outstanding and very believable as the guilt-ridden sister trying so hard to make amends, while still tending to the every day pressures of career, motherhood, and care-taking of her husband and his father. The problem I have with the film is that the story line basically seems improbable at best, an incredulous at worst. I just don't understand how the killing of her son and the subsequent trial could have come off the way it supposedly did. The fact that the reveal occurs very near the end of the film leads me to believe that Mr. Claudel felt much the same way. A must see for KST performance, but you will need to get over the basis for her imprisonment.
Greetings again from the darkness. Movie thrillers tend to fall into one of three categories: 1. Slick and stylish 2. "B"-level, yet effective 3. Not suspenseful or thrilling. This latest from director Brad Anderson (The Machinist, Transsiberian) is a rare blend of all three categories.Halle Berry takes the lead as Jordan Turner, a veteran 911 Operator who thrives in "the Hive" - the name they give to the hub of emergency response. We quickly enough get an overview of how the center works and what's involved for the operators ... a balance of crank calls, "normal" situations and full on panic mode. One of these panic mode calls finds Jordan making a critical mistake that leads directly to the kidnapping and death of a young girl. Jordan is unable to handle the mental anguish and 6 months later we catch up with her as a Trainer.The film really kicks into gear when young Casey (Abigail Breslin) calls 911 from the trunk of a car after being kidnapped from a mall parking lot. In a move totally lacking in shock, Jordan finds herself back in the chair and offering Casey calm advice on how to handle her dangerous predicament. The back and forth between these two provides a comparison in diverse claustrophobia. Jordan is wired to the computer monitor with a headset and Casey is locked in a car trunk.The one thing every good crime thriller needs is a worthy and interesting bad guy. Instead of the sick genius of Hannibal Lecter, we get the ticks and twitches of Michael Foster (played by Michael Eklund). This is no criminal mastermind, but rather a mentally unstable freak. Of course he is dangerous ... but just not very interesting.Despite the shortcomings, we do find ourselves pulled into the cat and mouse pursuit ... which is only a chase thanks to an untraceable prepaid cell phone. Rather than continue with the basic mind games of the first two acts, the final 15 minutes turn ludicrous as Jordan escapes from the desk and heads out to do some detective work on her own. This last act is absurd and the ending provides no satisfaction or reward for our earlier commitment to the characters and story.I will say that it is quite disconcerting to hear Little Miss Sunshine shout out "M____ F____"
Greetings again from the darkness. Writer/Director Tamara Jenkins showed off her flair for dysfunctional families in her last film "Slums of Beverly Hills". Here she tackles a most difficult, and ever-growing issue of boomers caring for their elderly parents ... often dealing with not only declining physical health, but increasingly with Alzheimers, Dementia and MS. Toss in two not-even-kinda-close siblings and an estranged, abusive parent in need and you have Ms. Jenkins' brand of topical observation.I have been threatening to jump off the Laura Linney bandwagon for a couple of years. Her most recent roles strike me as little more than line reading and beady-eyed stares. Here, she comes to play again. She flashes all the frustration that one would expect from a lonely, mostly intelligent 40ish woman whose life is really just a mess. Her only functional (barely) relationship is with her cat.Her father's onset of dementia and forced home evacuation causes the necessary teaming with her brother, played by the brilliant Philip Seymour Hoffman. The two must step up and "take better care of the old man than he ever did for us". Anyone who has been through this painful process recognizes most of the pain, discomfort and loss of dignity that the family must endure. The scene of Linney and her dad on the plane is just excruciating.The film does a marvelous job of capturing the real life juggles of numerous relationships that we all go through. As if that isn't quite challenging enough, the pending death of a parent and all of the decisions and emotions that go with it act as a compounding stress agent. Here the dad is played to perfection by character actor Philip Bosco as he fights to stay in control even as he recognizes his slippage.My only complaints with this film are Ms. Jenkins' apparent obsession with prescription drugs and the overall poor direction of the film. She is obviously a magnificent writer, but this film in a real director's hands could have taken the next step. Still, it provides terrific insight into an all too real situation.One quick point about Philip Seymour Hoffman. This guy has delivered THREE outstanding performances this year with "The Savages", "Charlie Wilson's War" and "Before The Devil Knows You're Dead". I believe the Academy should forego the "Best Performance by an Actor" this year and just hand Mr. Hoffman a statue for "Actor of the Year". It is such a pleasure to watch his talent on screen.
Greetings again from the darkness. This one delivers everything we have come to expect from a Jason Statham movie ... plenty of action, fight scenes, gun play and a man wronged by the system who is on a mission for vengeance. It is a remake of the 1972 film starring Charles Bronson and Jan Michael Vincent, and written by Lewis John Carlino.As in the original, a hit-man takes an apprentice under his wing. Here, it's played by Ben Foster, who was so good in "3:10 to Yuma". Foster brings energy and intensity to his role, and a playfulness that Statham doesn't always appreciate. The two have pretty good chemistry, but face it, the only real reason to watch this movie is for action scenes and violence.Donald Sutherland has a fairly brief role as Statham's mentor and the film definitely misses him once he's gone. The bad guy is played by Tony Goldwyn, who just doesn't have the screen presence to play a big time baddie. Goldwyn is an excellent TV director and seems much better suited behind the camera. He has been typecast as the bad guy ever since "Ghost" and his presence often evokes groans from the audience.No surprises in this one, which is fine. With Statham movies ... we want what we expect. Nothing more, and certainly nothing less.
Greetings again from the darkness. This year's holiday movie season has presented us with three very different war-based films - each a potential Oscar contender, and each with its own life lesson. Norwegian director Morten Tyldum (the excellent Headhunters, 2011) brings Andrew Hodges' biographical book to the screen in the form of the remarkable and true story of Alan Turing, the man credited by many (including Winston Churchill) for helping win WWII.Alan Turing was a brilliant mathematician and cryptoanalyst. He was also homosexual. Celebrated for his work in helping Great Britain crack the German's "Enigma" messages, he was also persecuted (through chemical castration) for his homosexuality. His suicide at age 41 (1954) was the likely result of his "treatment" during an era when such "unacceptable" behavior overshadowed any and all mental genius.The film utilizes Turing's 1951 police interrogation by a sympathetic and curious detective (Rory Kinnear) as a framing device for the three significant time periods of his life. We see Turing as a bullied schoolboy (played by Alex Lawther) discovering the early signs of his own brilliance, as well as his first love. Most significantly, we witness Turing's work with the Hut 8 team at Bletchley Park as they worked on complex code-breaking; and finally we see the remnants of a broken man, bathed in solitude and work, who has no real place in society.Benedict Cumberbatch gives an astounding performance as Alan Turing. We cannot take our eyes off of him, despite his Asperger's-type social awkwardness. Cumberbatch manages to expertly capture each extreme emotion that befalls Turing, not the least of which is the frustration of the genius, when lesser minds are unable to follow his vision. Some of the best scenes are of Turing's confrontations with a Royal Navy Commander (perfectly played by Charles Dance), and of course, the critical moments with the other members of his code-breaking team (including Matthew Goode and Keira Knightley).There are so many aspects to Turing's story: his impact on ending the war, how society treats true genius, his isolated childhood and final years, the extreme lack of civil rights for homosexuals of the time, and how his work on "Christopher" led to the development of computers. The second half of the film certainly presents the moral quandary, and the performance of Cumberbatch as a tortured genius overpowers any clichés that might creep in. Alexandre Desplat's piano and strings score is a nice compliment without ever becoming overbearing, and the use of actual war newsreels adds just enough reminder of what the mission was for this group of geeks (today's terminology).
Greetings again from the darkness. Sophie Coppola has two brilliant films to her credit already: "Lost in Translation" and "The Virgin Suicides". Beginning one's directing career with those two can only lead to unrealistic expectations. So, yes I will admit to a bit of anticipation for "Marie Antoinette", and yes I now feel truly disappointed.Ms. Coppola again shows her remarkable eye with a visual feast of sets, costumes, make-up and poses. What makes this one so tough to take is that she totally forgets to give us a story or make us care about anyone in the film. I will even use the word BORING. The slow pacing works beautifully at first as we are forced to endure the endless string of passionless nights and daytime distance that the two newlyweds go through. However, once Marie gets over that hurdle and decides to live her life, the film should have taken off with fun, frivolity and festiveness. Even the parties seem slow! Kirsten Dunst does an admirable job as the young queen who is so naive and alone and in pain. Watching the film leaves us with the feeling that much of the guts of the film were left on the editing room floor. Jason Schwartzman (so fine in "Shopgirl" and "Rushmore") is perfectly cast and he does a nice job of underplaying his character. The wonderful Judy Davis is downright frightening in her scenes with Dunst - is she wearing a neck prosthesis or are those really her neck ligaments? Marianne Faithful (still alive after the Jagger years), Shirley Henderson, Steve Coogan and Rip Torn are all fine in their roles, although Molly Shannon is totally out of place in Versailles.Ms. Coppola again shows her knack for perfect music selections for mood and scene, but it is just not enough to save this one. No way this disappointment will keep me from her next outing, but my expectations might be a bit lower for that one.
Greetings again from the darkness. It's the 50th anniversary and what a treat to see the re-mastered, restored film in a crowded theatre - many wearing their Beatles shirts. The quasi-documentary, cinema verite' approach from director Richard Lester may not fit the traditional idea of a great movie, but at a minimum, it's a fantastic pop culture artifact showing a world on the verge of change.This is The Beatles first film and this is the most innocent and fresh-faced we ever see them ... it's just a few months after their first appearance on "the Ed Sullivan Show". John is the most guarded, but his quick wit and distrust of the establishment are obvious. Paul is at his cutest and least arrogant, but still managing to pose on cue. George comes across most open and full of joy - before he became the most publicly withdrawn. Ringo is self-deprecating and in full hang-dog mode.For a stark contrast, watch the four lads a year later in HELP!, also directed by Mr. Lester. The luster of fame has clearly tarnished and they are quite aware of the power they wield. Still, during this shoot, we are almost "on set" as the boys are first experiencing Beatlemania! In addition to the Fab Four, British actor Wilfrid Brambill plays Paul's Grandfather. The recurring gag of him being "very clean" is a play on Brambill's long-running role as Albert Steptoe in "Steptoe & Son" where he is referred to as "a dirty old man". Victor Spinetti plays the very anxious TV director wearing the infamous sweater. Mr. Spinetti also appeared in HELP! (1965) and The Magical Mystery Tour (1967). Richard Vernon played the grumpy old man sharing the train car with the boys. Mr. Vernon also appeared in Goldfinger that same year. Another James Bond link occurs when Ringo is invited to the Le Cercle Club ... the same club James Bond first appears in Dr. No (1962). Lastly, Pattie Boyd is one of the giggly schoolgirls on the train and appears in 3 different scenes. 18 months later, she was married to George Harrison ... and a few years later, she proved her attraction to lead guitarists by marrying Eric Clapton.I was caught off guard by the frenetic pace of the film ... it has been 3 decades since I last watched it. But mostly, I was stunned at the clean look of this restored version and was awed by the terrific sound, especially of the song restorations completed by Giles Martin, the son of Beatles record producer George Martin ... who was nominated for an Academy Award for his film score.The film inspired the 1960's TV show "The Monkees", and of course, the soundtrack was a massive seller. "If I Fell" is one of my favorite Beatles songs and it's a nice segment in the film, but the real climax is the performance of "She Loves You", replete with terrific crowd shots. The impact and lasting impression of the film is every bit as recognizable as that stunning opening chord to the title track that opens the film.
Greetings again from the darkness. As a young kid I saw the original Planet of the Apes at a drive-in with my parents. At the time, I mostly just thought the talking apes were cool and enjoyed the surprise ending, despite having no ability to really process the statement that Pierre Boulle (novel) and Rod Serling (screenplay) were making. Since then, I have had a soft spot for the series, including the Tim Burton version 10 years ago.As you can tell by the title, this latest version is truly a pre-quel. It is meant to explain the beginnings of how the Apes gained intelligence and created a powerful society that would one day rule humans. It begins in a genetic engineering lab run by James Franco and his team. They are using chimps to test an experimental drug that will hopefully be used to treat and cure Alzheimer's. In fact, Mr. Franco's father is played by John Lithgow, a once renowned musician and teacher, who is now suffering the effects of this horrible disease.When things go wrong at the lab, Franco breaks most every known law and tests the drug on dear old dad. Of course, it works miracles. The accident in the lab, leads Franco to adopt a baby chimp born to one of the chimps used to test the drug. This chimp quickly becomes the smartest one in the house, neighborhood and city. Named Caesar, his learning curve is off the charts. And yes, after a couple of years, his strength and temper are as well.After yet another accident, Caesar is put away in a chimp camp run by greedy Brian Cox and sadistic Tom Felton (Draco of Harry Potter fame). Caesar uses his intelligence and the unsuspecting and unobservant nature of the humans to organize a coup. This part is really something to behold.By far the best acting in the film is delivered by Andy Serkis. Don't recognize the name? You might know him better as King Kong or Gollum in Lord of the Rings. Mr. Serkis is a motion-capture actor-extraordinare. It is sometimes difficult to tell where these effects stop and the CGI begins, but overall the look of the chimps is pretty good and the action sequences are downright amazing.What hurts the film is the weakness of the human stories. Franco as a genius scientist? Doesn't work for me. Freida Pinto as a primate specialist? The script gives her nothing to work with. Lithgow and Cox are excellent actors, but mere pawns in this story.Director Rupert Wyatt tips a cap to the original film a few times: tribute names such as Bright Eyes and Dodge Landon, an orange orangutan named Maurice (in honor of Maurice Evans), a quick glimpse of a Statue of Liberty puzzle, horse-back riding, Charlton Heston on TV (as Moses), and a couple of classic lines including "stinking paws".In what was supposed to be a transition story, this one really belongs to the apes ... and it's teed up beautifully for a sequel just across the Golden Gate.
Greetings again from the darkness. Fascinating real life story based on the book by Ben Mezrich gets slick, polished Hollywood treatment from well known fluff director Robert Luketic ("Legally Blonde", "Mother-In-Law").For some reason the MIT students racial mix is much different than the real life stuff. Wait, I believe that reason would be Box Office appeal/money!! Kevin Spacey is a fine choice for the ego-maniacal professor who is the brains behind the brainy operation that takes Vegas for a ride. Jim Sturgess and Kate Bosworth are the eye candy inserted to make this tolerable for a wider audience.The actual guy whose Sturgess' character is based on, Jeffrey Ma, has a quick role as a Planet Hollywood dealer. Throw in Laurence Fishbourne as an old school security muscle man, mix it with some slow-mo and fast edits and loud music and you have Hollywood's idea of high-tech Gen Y thriller. My advice ... read the book.
Greetings again from the darkness. Have been hearing so much about the performances of Christopher Plummer and Helen Mirren, that I couldn't wait for this one to finally hit town. They are both nominated for Oscars (somehow, his first), though neither appear to be a front runner.Based on Jay Parini's novel, director Michael Hoffman (One Fine Day) brings us a look at the last year in the life of Russian novelist Leo Tolstoy, who wrote two of the finest novels of all-time (War and Peace, Anna Karenina). Unfortunately, I am not sure of the point of the film. We are provided a glimpse into the marital challenges faced by Tolstoy and Sofya, but more of the story seems to be devoted to the scheming of Chertkov (Paul Giamatti) who wants the copyrights turned over to the Russian society ... he is a very strong believer in Tolstoy's newfound disgust with personal belongings (among other things).James McAvoy is hired to be Tolstoy's personal assistant slash double agent. He is to report to Chertkov all that goes on, and in a twist, he is to report the same to Sofya, who fears that the "new will" shall leave she and the family destitute.The first half of the film belongs to Plummer, who refuses to go overboard playing Tolstoy as the great man, not just great writer, that so many see him as. I doubt any of us today can really appreciate how this man was worshiped at the time, though the paparazzi and tears at the end give us some indication. The second half is Mirren's as she copes with being shut out, while still in a lifelong love.I would have preferred more insight into Tolstoy the man, rather than the Tolstoyan movement, of which I found little interest. We certainly get a more defined character in Chertkov, but the maturing of McAvoy's character helps offset the harshness.
Greetings again from the darkness. I am so conflicted on how to analyze the film and what to say. Being a fan of Fellini's 8 1/2, I really was hoping director Rob Marshall (Chicago) could pull it off. The cast is dazzling and deep. The question begged, would it be an homage to Fellini, the Broadway musical or go a different route altogether? After seeing the film, I still can't answer that question and that's a major problem.The great Daniel Day-Lewis is in the key Guido role. His musical numbers lack punch, but the rest of his performance is outstanding. All of the brilliant women do the most possible with their musical numbers. Penelope Cruz is quite provocative (as the mistress), Nicole Kidman is classy as the starlet, Fergie is explosive as Guido's childhood obsession, Kate Hudson is energetic as the lusty American, Judi Dench is sage as the muse, and Sophia Loren comes off as royalty as Guido's mom.You will note that I failed to mention Marion Cotillard. The reason is that she stands out among the others. Her first number is the key to the film and the first real emotion that we get. She is outstanding and deserves recognition that she probably won't get.Each of the stars is just that ... a star. The film never really allows us to connect to a character. There are so many fine pieces, but the lack of cohesiveness causes this one to be a near miss as a complete film. Don't let this scare you away. If you haven't already done so, seek out Fellini's 8 1/2 .. THAT one is definitely worth your time.
Greetings again from the darkness. It's easy to understand how frequent movie goers develop an affinity for certain directors, however, it's important to not blindly praise based on a name. Korean auteur director Joon-ho Bong has previously delivered a couple of artistic and interesting genre movies with The Host and Mother. His first (mostly) English language film is a sci-fi, politically-oriented action film that is based on a French graphic novel, and utilizes well known actors from the U.S. and U.K. This is definitely "world cinema".The basic premise is that a man-made experiment to "fix" severe climate change goes bad, leaving the earth as an uninhabitable frozen tundra. The only survivors are those aboard a perpetual motion train that circles the earth year after year. Onboard is a class-segregation system with the richest 1% at the front (first class) of the train and the 99% lower class bringing up the rear (steerage). This case of haves vs have-nots leads to the expected rebellion by the oppressed lower class.As the rebels make their way towards the front of the train, each car brings new obstacles ... in fact, each car plays like a new level in a video game. In between are a wide variety of creative fight scenes that allow the director to show off his visual acumen in close-quarter battles - some quite violent.Comic relief is provided by a near clown-like Tilda Swinton. Her appearance and delivery are hilarious and might seem out of place if I did not find the entire movie works better as a comedy than the political commentary it's meant to be. Each of the main characters provide enough interest on their own: Chris Evans as the main rabble-rouser, Jamie Bell as his right-hand man, John Hurt as the old-timer and Octavia Spencer as the wronged-mother. Actually the best story line involves Nam and Yono (Song Kang-ho and Ko Ah-sung respectively) as a father-daughter team with skills integral to the rebellion.While the fight scenes were well-staged, I couldn't help but think of beer commercials every time the camera provided an exterior shot of the train. Luckily these shots and the abundance of posturing and lame dialogue kept me chuckling enough that it overshadowed the high number of ridiculous sequences ... not the least of which is the final introduction to the Wizard of Oz like train engineer in the front car.Director Joon-ho Bong continues his technical advancements in visual and action effects, but he will need to deliver much tighter stories to capture a large U.S. audience. In fact, more drama was delivered by his real-life "final cut" battles with Harvey Weinstein than the on screen uprising.
Greetings again from the darkness. The best Political crime dramas are complex films with multiple intersecting sub-plots, filled with stylish mis-direction and intense wordplay and back-stabbing between good guys and bad. What doesn't work is obvious. Especially obvious to the point where the audience is way ahead of the earnest, but clumsy protagonist. Luckily for director Allen Hughes (working solo without his brother Albert for the first time), he has stacked the film with a wonderful cast which makes it somewhat entertaining despite its major flaws.Mark Wahlberg plays (what else?) a streetwise guy/cop/detective who tries to do the right thing but always seems to end up with the short straw. Russell Crowe is in fine form as the megalomaniac NYC mayor who plays dirty, but knows how to sell his stuff to the people ... even as he schemes to do great wrong. Their paths cross twice and neither time turns out so great for Wahlberg.As for the rest of the cast, Barry Pepper is miscast as Crowe's mayoral opponent; Jeffrey Wright is intriguing as the Police Commissioner seemingly playing both sides against the middle; Catherine Zeta-Jones is Crowe's most unhappy and disloyal wife; Kyle Chandler plays Pepper's campaign manager (and evidently more); and Griffin Dunne is a rich Crowe supporter and knee deep in the evil scheme. Also interesting is Alona Tai as Wahlberg's wise-cracking assistant.While no details will be spilled here, there is a fun exchange during the debate between Crowe and Pepper, and well, the movie is just at its best when Crowe is on screen. Wahlberg's character is pretty much the same he has played a dozen times prior, but it seems the real issue is with first time screenwriter Brian Tucker. He is just overrun with ideas and because of that, most go undeveloped. A script clean-up from a screen veteran could have turned this one around. Still, if you have seen all the Oscar nominated films and are looking for a watchable January release, you could do worse. Just try not to think too much!
Greetings again from the darkness. There are, even amongst otherwise intelligent movie lovers, those who proudly proclaim "I don't like musicals". It's a somewhat understandable stance since so many of this genre are simply a group of songs linked together by a thin story with uninteresting characters. However, when done well, the musical can be a most enjoyable, emotional and entertaining ride. One of the best and most beloved is director Vincente Minnelli's Meet Me in St. Louis.If you were making a musical in 1944, your dream cast would certainly include Judy Garland. She was 22 years old at the time, just a few years removed from her iconic role as Dorothy in The Wizard of Oz. Ms. Garland was desperately trying to break free of her "Oz" and "Andy Hardy" teenage ingénue image and transition to adult roles. In fact, she pushed back hard at MGM against being cast in this film. Because of this, she initially struggled with the character of Esther until finally grasping the tone that director Minnelli was after. The result is clearly one of her best performances, and maybe her most beautiful look ever on screen.The story is broken into four sections  the four seasons leading up to the 1904 World's Fair to be held in St. Louis. The Smith family lives in a charming upper middle class Victorian home that serves as the centerpiece for most scenes  especially the intricate, winding mahogany staircase, and the elaborate gaslight fixtures throughout. Mr. and Mrs Smith are played by Leon Ames and Mary Astor (known best for The Maltese Falcon). They are joined in the house by a son Lon (Henry H Daniels, Jr), four daughters (Rose  Lucille Bremer, Esther  Judy Garland, Agnes  Joan Carroll, Tootie  Margaret O'Brien), a spry grandfather (Harry Davenport), and wise-cracking housekeeper (Marjorie Main). The family dynamics are such that numerous sub-stories are constantly being juggled.There are numerous pieces and tidbits associated with this film, so let's discuss just a few. While audiences today may find 7 year old Margaret O'Brien's performance as the youngest daughter Tootie to be a bit over the top, she won an honorary Oscar that year as the Best Juvenile Actor. Two sequences in particular stand out: the quite dark and harsh Halloween portion which accurately displays the dangerous activities of that era (today's trick or treat seems quite tame), and the song and dance routine performed in the parlor while wearing a nightgown. This is also the film where director Vincente Minnelli and Judy Garland first met. They were married the following year and of course had a daughter, Liza Minnelli. All three were Oscar winners: Judy in 1940 for Best Juvenile Actor, Vincente for directing Gigi (1958), and Liza for Best Actress in Cabaret (1972).Sally Benson's series of short stories published in the New Yorker magazine inspired the film. The stories were based on Ms. Benson's childhood in St. Louis and she consulted on the script and set. In the movie, the Smith house is located at 1935 Kensington. For filming, the house was built on the MGM backlot on what became known as St. Louis Street. The street was used for many films, and the same house was used for the original Cheaper By the Dozen (1950). Sadly, the street fell into disrepair and was later destroyed and sold off by MGM (it's now condos and office buildings). Of course, this is a musical so the songs deserve mention. Many were original compositions for the film, including "The Trolley Song" (nominated for a Best Song Oscar) and "Have Yourself a Merry Little Christmas", the latter showcasing Ms. Garland in peak singing voice. The film was a huge box office success and was nominated for four Oscars (no wins). The set design and costumes are extraordinary, and the story is quite affecting as it focuses on family and what makes a home so special. This is a wonderfully sentimental taste of Americana at the turn of the century, and one of the best examples of how effective a musical can be in telling a story and connecting an audience to the characters.
Greetings again from the darkness. Here goes: John J McLaughlin wrote this "Hitchcock" screenplay based on Stephen Rebello's book "Alfred Hitchcock and the Making of Psycho", which was based on the filming of the Psycho screenplay from Joseph Stefano, which was loosely based on Robert Bloch's book, which was based on the real life crimes of Ed Gein. Whew! It's kind of interesting that Alfred Hitchcock is hot again. His Vertigo recently displaced Citizen Kane as the all-time greatest film. HBO is still running their recent production of "The Girl", which is based on Hitchcock's making of "The Birds" and his unhealthy connection to Tippi Hedren. And now, we get this Hollywood production, supposedly based on the master of suspense. I saw supposedly, because this film plays like it was written by the heirs of Alma Reville, Hitch's long time wife and collaborator. We all knew she worked on his films and contributed ideas, but the film wants you to believe she was the real genius behind the public genius.The movie is entitled "Hitchcock" and is based on the making of "Psycho", but in fact, it's more the story of Alma and her husband. While there is nothing wrong with that story ... in fact, it is quite interesting and entertaining ... it's just kind of false advertising.Helen Mirren portrays Alma, and instead of the mousy woman who usually faded into the background, we see a fairly strong and talented woman who goes toe-to-toe with Hitch in her best scene. Sir Anthony Hopkins dons some facial appliances and a fat suit and does a solid job of capturing the odd, creepy, leering, disturbed, insecure genius we recognize as Alfred Hitchcock. He comes across as louder and more in-motion than what we have previously seen. And while director Sacha Gervasi makes it clear that Hitch is not a "normal" guy, he doesn't dwell too much on the blond fixations.The emphasis on the skills and importance of Alma would be fine were it not so exaggerated. Surely every great director and writer and artist has a muse and/or support system; and, there is no question Alma was a very talented lady, but her strength here bordered on distracting to the overall picture. Especially needless was the storyline of Alma being attracted to screenwriter Whitfield Cook (Danny Huston), who wrote "Strangers on a Train" for Hitchcock.The Hitchcock humor is allowed to shine through and his battles with Paramount Studio head Barney Balaban (Richard Portnow) and the censorship board (Kurtwood Smith) are excellent. Hopkins finds the humanity under the fat suit and is especially good in his work with Scarlett Johansson (as Janet Leigh) and Jessica Biel (as Vera Miles). I also got a kick out of James D'Arcy as the affected Anthony Perkins and all his quirky mannerisms.Though this barely qualifies as a story on the making of Psycho, it was chilling to watch the addition of Bernard Herrmann's iconic score added to the shower scene. In fact, Danny Elfman does a nice job of subtly adding a Herrmann-type score to this film. I'm not sure if the film will play well with real Hitchcock aficionados, but if you can forgive the Alma slant, it's actually quite interesting and entertaining and kind of a sweet film at its core.
Greetings again from the darkness. "And the colored girls go do doo doo, do doo ...". The controversial lyrics from Lou Reed's "Walk on the Wild Side" kick off this exceptional documentary about the oft-ignored back-up singers who have played (and continue to play) a huge role in some of the biggest songs of all-time. You may not know their names, but you have undoubtedly sung along with them while driving or taking a shower.Director Morgan Neville has a credit list filled with music shorts and documentaries. One of my personal favorites of his is The American Masters on Muddy Waters. I recalled that while watching this one because Neville does a nice job of connecting the dots from Gospel, Blues and Soul to the roots of Rock and Roll. The main women featured here all admit to being daughters of preachers, and fine-tuning their ability to harmonize during their youth while singing in the church choir.Most of the interview time and insight comes from Darlene Love, Lisa Fischer, and Merry Clayton. You may not recognize the names or faces, but you will surely recognize the voices. Ms. Love has been elected to the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, and may be best known thanks to her annual appearance on the David Letterman Show at Christmas. Ms. Fischer is the most frequent worker today of the three as she tours with Chris Botti, Sting and The Rolling Stones. However, the heart-stopping climax of the film belongs to Merry Clayton, as we are treated to her isolated vocals from the master on her infamous performance on the single "Gimme Shelter". Hearing her raw voice blast out "Rape. Murder. It's just a shot away" is both exhilarating and gut-wrenching. To hear her tell the story is mesmerizing. One of my favorite movie moments ever.While we see and hear the personal stories filled with frustration and regrets, we also see an inherent love of music and the appreciation for their particular gift. We also hear from Tata Vega, Dr. Mabel John (a former Raelette for Ray Charles), and Claudia Lennear. With many similar stories of their quest for solo careers, we get the contemporary version with Judith Hill, a twenty-something working back-up today as she strives for a solo career. The parallels are obvious with her older peers.Another excellent feature of the film comes in the form of interviews from the likes of Bruce Springsteen, Sting, Stevie Wonder, Lou Adler, Chris Botti, and Mick Jagger. We also see some studio shots featuring Phil Spector (once the hottest music producer, now incarcerated), and concert footage of Talking Heads, Ray Charles, The Rolling Stones, and the Concert for Bangladesh. It's especially fitting to see Luther Vandross as a back-up singer to David Bowie's "Young Americans", and to hear from Sheryl Crow, who worked as Michael Jackson's back-up/lead female. These are the examples of the back-ups who successfully made the walk.My only minor quibble with the film is structural, not content. Neville has an over-whelming task of addressing each of the individual stories, while also relating it to the nasty and unfair music business, the Civil Rights movement, the development of Rock and Roll, and the role that "talent" plays in what Springsteen terms the "complicated" walk from back-up to lead singer (the titular 20 feet). The segment focusing on Merry Clayton's role in Lynyrd Skynyrd's "Sweet Home Alabama" is especially poignant. Overall this film is fascinating and entertaining, and makes a great companion piece to Standing in the Shadows of Motown (2002) and Muscle Shoals (2013).
Greetings again from the darkness. Upfront admission: I am not a Thor comic book expert. Many people are and I fully appreciate their take on this film will be much different from mine. I can only judge this movie on the basic background knowledge I have and the final product on the screen.Let's start with the good stuff. Chris Hemsworth makes a terrific Thor. If I had his looks and build, I would certainly consider myself a Nordic God. Heck, I might even carry around a hammer just for fun! Thor, son of Odin, is all set to be named King of Asgard until his quick-temper and love of battle cause a break in the peace accord with the Frost Giants. His dad, Odin, played by Sir Anthony Hopkins is none too pleased with his hot-headed son. Not only does he renege on the promise to name him King, but he strips his power and casts him down to Earth ... specifically New Mexico. For some reason, all alien portals lead to New Mexico. You can tell it's a been a bad day for Thor because he lands in the middle of nowhere and is promptly run over by a science lab van driven by Natalie Portman.Other good stuff: Idris Elba as Heimdall, the gatekeeper, is excellent; there is a cameo by Jeremy Renner as Hawkeye - a teaser for The Avengers movie next year; Jamie Alexander shows some chops as Sif; Clark Gregg is back as Agent Coulson; some of the special effects are pretty cool ... the Frost Giants are very detailed and The Destroyer looks like Iron Man on metallic steroids; and lastly, Kat Dennings has a couple of sharp lines as Portman's assistant. Ms. Dennings was superb in "Nick and Norah's Infinite Playlist".OK, the not so good stuff: I am beginning to despise 3-D (it adds nothing, while diminishing the brightness of colors); Jotunheim (land of the Frost Giants) is just plain, gray and boring; Natalie Portman, fresh off an Oscar is just terrible as an astro-physicist with a teenage crush on Thor; Tom Hiddleston as Loki is one of the weakest villains I have ever seen in a super-hero/comic book movie; Rene Russo must not have read the script prior to accepting her role - she has about 3 lines and is totally wasted.Despite the weaknesses, I found the movie to be entertaining enough thanks to the scenes with Thor and Odin. The ambitious son being shown tough love by his father is a missing element in much of society today. Guess it takes a Nordic God to show us how. The scenes with Portman are painful to watch, but I believe there is enough to keep the comic book fans and just about anyone else entertained.Directed by Kenneth Branagh, who is best known for his Shakespeare and stage work, the movie does have a little different look and feel from the average superhero movie. Still, I wouldn't put it in the class of Batman, Spider-man, or Iron Man. We do get the expected Stan Lee cameo and the end-of-the-credits appearance of Samuel L Jackson. Up next, Captain America!
Greetings again from the darkness. With a successful TV writing background ("ER" and "West Wing"), writer/director John Wells tackles the economic downturn in his first feature film. The story offers perspective on how a corporation's blind focus on profit wins out over employee loyalty when times get tough.Craig T Nelson stars as James Salinger, who along with Gene McClary (Tommy Lee Jones) started the GTX company years ago. The company made its name in ship-making and is now a conglomerate charged with shareholder return despite the economic recession. No mystery how to do that ... start cutting employees. Hundreds of them. Get the lawyers involved so the perfect balance of elder statesmen and young guns can be established - gotta avoid those lawsuits! The initial focus is on Bobby Walker, hotshot salesman played by Ben Affleck. When he gets laid off, his initial reaction is anger followed by denial. While his wife, Rosemarie DeWitt, starts making practical plans on how to get through the crisis, her husband continues playing golf and driving his Porsche ... foolishly believing this makes him look "successful". He expresses near disgust when his brother-in-law played by Kevin Costner offers him a job on his home remodeling team. Of course, he can't picture himself "banging nails".Next up is self-made man Phil Woodward, played with total annoyance by Chris Cooper. He is the first to realize that the image he had of his value to the company and his family was a total facade, and his reaction is not pretty.As the film moves forward, we see how the strength of DeWitt's character not only holds her family together, but also helps her husband realize his self-value is not in his job, but rather with his loved ones ... including his parents.The film really doesn't offer much other than a reminder that what makes us who we are is really not tied to a title or job description. It's also an example of how tough times bring out the best and worst in people and can draw a family much closer ... or drive a wedge. Character is revealed when tough choices are forced.
Greetings again from the darkness. It's the worst nightmare for every Parent, Teacher and Child. Sexual Abuse of a child is incomprehensible ... it's unthinkable, yet all too common. So what happens when a man is falsely accused of such inappropriate action? Well if the accusation comes from the most innocent of faces - a 5 year old girl - the falsely accused man stand no chance ... regardless of what the letter of the law states.Such is the story of Lucas (Mads Mikkelson, TV's "Hannibal"), a lonely, small town kindergarten teacher who has gone through a rough divorce and seems to be losing his fight for visitation rights to his teenage son. We witness Lucas quietly going about his life ... he is loved by the students and surrounded by life long hunting buddies and friends. Soon enough, things start to look up for Lucas. An attractive teacher expresses her interest in him and his son convinces the mother that he should live with his dad.The set-up of the characters and the powerfully stoic performance of Mikkelson elevate this somewhat predictable story to the brink of excruciating discomfort for the viewer. In the blink of a childhood moment of imaginative confusion of emotional pain, an innocent man's life is forever altered. Klara (Annika Wedderkopp) is the daughter of Lucas' best friend Theo (Thomas Bo Larsen). A very protective teacher unwittingly leads Klara down the path that leads to a landslide of emotion that simply cannot be stopped. Of course, the teachers and parents and community believe the cute little girl ... the innocence of kids cannot be doubted. As the defensive instincts of parents kick in, we see the dangerous side of influence and suddenly numerous kids have piled on and become part of the story.Director Thomas Vinterberg brilliantly keeps us looking through the eyes of Lucas. We know he is innocent and we beg him to scream it! Instead, he expects everyone to just know he does not have this in him at all. His faith in himself never waivers despite our discomfort and anger. He does finally reach a boiling point after a heart-breaking scene in the local market, but even that moment does not feel like a victory.While The Scarlet Letter gave us an indication of community exile, this story shows us just how quickly human nature has us jumping to conclusions and assuming the worst. Persecution and judgment by the mob is one of the most dangerous developments of society. Lucas reminds us that innocence and faith may not always be enough.
Greetings again from the darkness. Four strong actors in one upper crust Manhattan condo for 79 minutes is a good first step. A script adapted by the director Roman Polanski and the original playwright Yasmina Reza makes for a strong second step. So why isn't this film more effective? The belief here is that this one simply works better as a play. That's not to say the dialogue and flow aren't impressive, it's just that as a viewer, we are distracted by the look and feel of a play being presented on screen rather than live on stage.The story opens with four well-groomed adults huddled around a computer putting the finishing touches on a joint statement regarding a playground incident between their two 11 year old sons. The Longstreet's (Jodie Foster, John C Reily) son ended up getting whacked in the face with a stick by the Cowan's (Kate Winslet, Christoph Waltz) son. We witness the incident from a distance over the opening credits, totally oblivious to the spoken words from the boys involved.After one minor compromise on wording, the statement is complete and the Cowan's move to make a graceful exit from the Longstreet's home. Instead, we get the first of four of five "almost" escapes as one after another particularly irksome claim or accusation is made by one of the participants, and the war of words moves back inside. The genius of the story comes from watching the gradual dismantling of social graces as these four people work through the full spectrum of human emotions related to, not just their son's actions, but also the words and actions of each other.We see homemade cobbler transition to coffee and then to whiskey. Each change coincides with personality changes and a constant shifting in alliance within the group. These are four normally civilized people play-acting like this emotional topic can be handled without emotion. One particular occurrence is quite off-putting for both the viewer and our on screen party of four. It creates quite a mess on the coffee table, and immediately intensifies the level of apologizing and philosophizing.There are at least three interesting social commentaries being made here. First,, parents tend to defend their own children no matter the situation. Second, today's parents mistakenly believe that 11 year olds should behave like mature adults. They have forgotten that social and coping skills are learned in playground disputes. Third, no matter how educated or well-mannered we show on the outside, we all have the need and desire to be respected and deemed correct in our judgments.You may not learn a great deal from this one, but I bet you find yourself paying particular attention to your own debate skills the next time you are in a social environment. It is certainly a treat to watch four standout actor having such a good time with words.
Greetings again from the darkness. It is very rare that a film looks and acts so important while really being nothing more than a hollow shell. One gets the impression that TV director Allen Coulter really thought he was making history here. Instead what we get is a great cast with great performances in nothing more than a made for TV Friday night movie.The basis of the film is the "investigation" by a private detective (Adrien Brody in one of his least annoying performances) into the death of "Adventures of Superman" star George Reeves (a surprisingly decent turn from Ben Affleck). Going on little more than motherly doubt, Brody's character just tosses out wild allegations and suppositions at the eager 1959 press. At the same time, we are force fed Brody's personal life screw-ups, which aren't the least bit interesting.The supporting cast is very good and is led by the always remarkable Diane Lane (Reeve's mistress and the wife of studio head Eddie Mannix played chillingly by Bob Hoskins). Also we get nice turns by Robin Tunney, Lois Smith, Joe Spano and Jeffrey DeMunn.The film might have had more to offer if there was any real mystery here. The problem is the only doubt comes from the normal doubts in a suicide. Loved ones don't want to believe it, yet there is no real evidence of foul play. If you are after an acting clinic and a glimpse at some cool late 50's automobiles, this is the movie for you. If you prefer at least some substance to your story line, you will be sadly disappointed. It is worth a chuckle to witness such self-importance on display from an inexperienced filmmaker.
Greetings again from the darkness. Talk about credentials!! Pulitzer Prize winning play, a famous and talented playwright/screenwriter, two of the best screen actors in history, an amazing and prize winning cinematographer ... what more could one ask? Well, I am still unable to answer that question, but I feel some detail is missing, thereby preventing this from being a truly great film.Don't doubt my enjoyment. This is a very nice film with a powerful message. In all honesty, I felt I was watching an actor's workshop. Each scene was stunning on its own. Watching Streep and PS Hoffman go head to head a few times is some of the most fun I have ever had in a theatre; much better than Pacino and Deniro in the much inferior "Righteous Kill". And just as terrific was Amy Adams as the heart of gold nun torn between the always-certain Sister Streep and the seemingly ever-so-kind and progressive Father Hoffman. Watching her attempts to follow in the senior nun's footsteps is painful (in a brilliant way), just as her always hopeful perspective that everything is fine now.Viola Davis is generating much Oscar buzz for her brief, but hypnotic appearance as the mother of the boy whom the Priest's alleged indiscretion was aimed. Ms. Davis captures a world that the protected Nun could never comprehend and absolutely catches the accusatory nun off-guard with her reaction. That scene was the soul of the film for me, even more than the nose to nose battle in the principal's office.John Patrick Shanley is the playwright for this story and for some unknown reason, he chose to direct as well. With a credit like "Joe versus the Volcano" on his resume, we must wonder why this was allowed. Supreme cinematographer Roger Deakins (a frequent Coen Brothers collaborator) delivers his customary perfect work, even in the confined quarters of the rectory and school. Still, I can't help but wonder if a true professional director could have elevated this film to the next level. One can only assume ego is to blame.Still, don't hesitate to see this film. It will keep you thinking and glued to the screen. Many view Streep's final scene as the key to the film. For me it was the reaction of the boy when the Priest announces he his leaving the church and school. The last thing I want to add is this film had one of the best trailer's I have ever seen. Ms. Streep was truly terrifying and I was incredibly anxious for this film to hit Dallas. I wish more studios would follow suit ... get us excited, but leave us wanting and guessing.
Greetings again from the darkness. Director Rian Johnson (Brick) delivers a very entertaining, thrilling and clever sci-fi film that features time travel, dark comedy, romance, metaphysics, and enough action to keep just about any viewer engaged ... as long as you enjoy using your brain a bit.Source Code, the recent film from Duncan Jones, used time travel in very limited segments. Here time travel is 30 years into the future and has been declared illegal. So, of course, only crime syndicates use it. When you think about it, sending your enemies back in time to be killed and disposed of is brilliant. It's very difficult to solve these type of crimes ... though, there is no evidence anyone is trying. The future mob boss known as The Rainmaker hires "loopers" from 30 years past to handle the dirty work. When The Rainmaker begins "closing loops", he does so by sending the loopers back in time to be killed by their younger selves. Yes, somehow this works.Well it works until Seth (Paul Dano) chokes up and lets his future self escape. That doesn't go over well with the modern day crime boss (Jeff Daniels) who just can't allow these future guys to be roaming free. Then, just like that, the same thing happens to Joe (Joseph Gordon Levitt). His future self (Bruce Willis) appears, he flubs the kill, and the next thing you know, the Joe and Old Joe are seated in a booth at a remote diner ordering the same breakfast and staring into their own eyes.Plenty of fun stuff in this one, although, I had a tough time buying a blond Emily Blunt as a Kansas farmer. Her young son Cid, played by Pierce Gagnon, is one of the more interesting characters in the film. He is supposed to the young version of the future Rainmaker, and he possesses some unusual traits ... with Blunt trying to supply sufficient motherly love to prevent him from spinning off track.Director Johnson has a knack of tossing in some dark humor at just the right time. Some of the romance seemed a bit forced, but the criminal element and the Joe vs Old Joe stuff was really fascinating to keep up with. If you enjoy movies that are somewhat challenging, and you can suspend reality for the time travel elements, it's one that you'll probably find quite entertaining. (www.MovieReviewsFromTheDark.wordpress.com)
Greetings again from the darkness. Vince Vaughn is starting to remind me of what Woody Allen went through ... "I liked his funny movies". Just wasn't a fan of "Wedding Crashers" or "The Break-up", but I certainly recognize his comedic talents. Here, his quirks play a little better, though I never really bought off on he and Reece Witherspoon as a couple.Low expectations, a strong cast, a few clever lines, easily relatable family strain, and a true sight "gag" make this one enjoyable enough. The trailer gives away the set-up of the film as Reece and Vince are forced to visit all four pieces of their disjointed families on Christmas. For some reason, director Seth Gordon ("King of Kong") casts Robert Duvall and Sissy Spacek as VV's parents and Jon Voight and Mary Steenburgen as Reece's. The curiosity stems from the age difference between these actors ... a 15-16 year span. Just struck me as odd. Though not quite as odd as Jon Voight offering parental advice. Now THAT is comedy! Despite the hi-jinx, the messages abound: we all have the weirdest family, it is never easy to really connect with another person, and it's always a good time for cheese whiz. This is really VV's film as Reece has little to offer save for the bounce bounce scene. Mr. Vaughn is truly at his best in the moments of rapid fire dialogue as he helplessly tries to avoid another ridiculous situation.One warning to parents: the film is rated PG-13 and there is a segment regarding the Santa secret, so be forewarned. The unwritten rule is broken. The quick lines and uncomfortable family moments make this one worth a few giggles. Not a Christmas classic, but a decent comedy.I must mention the tribute to the classic "A Christmas Story" as the kids peer into the toy store window early on. That scene is followed by the airport scene, where the ticket agent is played by none other than Peter Billingsley, a grown up Ralphie from that movie (and producer of this film).
Greetings again from the darkness. Any lover of movies has been anxiously awaiting this "next film" from James Cameron. If you have lost track of time, it's actually been 12 years since Cameron's "Titanic" became the ultimate mega-box office champion. Finally, people can stop asking him what he's been up to! This is a very difficult movie to review or critique, so here is how I will describe it: it is a Film spectacle ... I mean that in a good way. "Avatar" is an event similar to "Star Wars" or even "The Exorcist". Much anticipation for seeing something we had never before seen on screen! And make no mistake, there are MANY things in this one we have never before seen. You will not find the list here because I believe this one should be viewed with as little upfront knowledge as possible.The star of the film is not the actors, and certainly not the script, but rather the technology and special effects. Be sure to see it in 3-D, the way Mr. Cameron meant for it to be seen. Some segments are breathtaking in beauty and creativity and splashes of color. I was fascinated by Pandora, the planet where most of the action takes place. The plant life, creatures and inhabitants are truly a new world from the mind of Cameron and crew. Wow.On the downside, the story is ho-hum at best and downright cheesy in more than a few scenes. Fans will easily pick out the influence of "Aliens", "The Abyss", the "Terminator" series ... heck, even the song over the credits reminds of Celine Dion's claim to fame. Another negative is Sigourney Weaver's completely over the top and unbelievable scientist, and Giovanni Ribisi's mugging corporate puppet. Who would have even imagined the usual laconic Mr. Ribisi was capable of overacting? Sam Worthington and Zoe Saldana are actually very good as the leads. Especially Ms. Saldana, who emotes a wide range of emotions despite heavy make-up (an understatement), and is really the best non-technical thing about the film.In a year of terrific, accessible sci-fi (Moon, Star Trek, Avatar), this one comes up short on story, but makes up for it with awe-inspiring imagery and visuals and sound.
Greetings again from the darkness. What a thrill to see both of director Jean Renoir's masterpieces on the big screen within a couple of weeks of each other. The other is Grand Illusion and the two could not be less similar. In this film, Renoir presents a farcical display of societal "rules" of the time, and even draws a parallel between the upper crust and working class when it comes to love and lust.The film was not well received upon its initial release because, times being as they were, very few enjoyed laughing at themselves. The film was seized by both the French government and later the Nazi's. Both labeled the film dangerous to society. The original negatives of the film were destroyed and film was pieced back together in the 1950's and now, with technical advancements, we get to watch a beautiful print as Renoir intended. Today, however, it is quite fun to see how Renoir was poking and prodding and very precise with his aim.The story begins with the heroic landing of French aviator Andre Jurieux (Roland Toutain) after his solo trans-Atlantic flight. Once you realize this is 10 years after Lindbergh's flight, you start to understand why the French were not pleased with the film. To make it worse, Jurieux acts like a teenager as he pouts in public when he realizes the woman he loves didn't come to welcome him home. Nevermind that Christine (Nora Gregor) is married! Circumstances bring many to the country estate of Christine and her husband Robert de la Chesnaye (Marcel Dalio) for a hunting expedition. What we actually have is a gathering of wives, husbands, mistresses, lovers, house servants, and French ruling class in a tangled web that obviously influenced Robert Altman for his classic Gosford Park. Robert's mistress (Mila Parely) is there and though Robert has promised Christine the affair is over, a wonderful scene finds her lowering binoculars to spot the two kissing in the distant. This leads Christine to be a more open to the advances of Andre the aviator.To bring in a bit more fun and action, we see the working class mirror the actions of their bosses. Lisette (Paulette Dubost) is married to the gamekeeper Schumaker (Gaston Modot) who doesn't take kindly to poacher Marceau (Julien Carette) making advances on Lisette. During the shenanigan's, Octave (Jean Renoir himself) alternates as both an entertaining clown and peace-keeper to ensure that he is continued to be welcome into Robert's home. He is a bit of a hanger-on.There is no plot per se, though we do get a surprise, erroneous murder, and that event brings even more unclear thinking to the group. The key to the film is the wonderful direction of Renoir. So much is going on simultaneously that your eyes must stay sharp and alert. Few directors of the time used such depth in the action ... pay attention to the foreground and background or you'll miss something! My favorite scene is when Robert unveils his latest find - a mechanical musical gadget that runs on precision. It's in stark contrast to the party and the lives of these people.
Greetings again from the darkness. The overdose of reality TV the past decade has resulted in at least a couple of Ghost Hunter type shows. Surely you have stumbled on at least one of these. Director James Wan starts this latest haunted house adventure off with the all-too-familiar "Based on a True Story" and then proceeds to fill the next couple of hours with scene after scene of horror film staples ... things we have jumped at many times over the years. However, this one is bumped up a notch thanks to atmosphere, direction and acting ability.The Perron family has moved to the country for a "fresh start" and here is what we learn: 1. If the family dog won't enter the new house, then neither should you or your kids. It's time to move out. How many dogs aren't thrilled to follow the kids right in through the front door? 2. If all the clocks (electric and wind-up) stop at exactly the same time, it's time to move out.3. If you stumble on a boarded up cellar/basement, just leave it boarded up ... and it's time to move out.4. If multiple birds fly full speed into your house, breaking their necks, it's time to move out.5. If your daughter discovers an antique toy that carries around as she talks to her new imaginary friend ... it's time to move out.6. If, over two consecutive evenings, your sleepwalking daughter bangs her head into the armoire left by the previous owners, it's time to move out.7. Having 5 daughters seems to make parenting exceptionally difficult. This is no reason to move out of the house.8. Playing blindfolded 'Hide and Clap' is not an appropriate game when you live in a 3 level home. This is no reason to move out, just find a game that doesn't require a blindfold.9. If you ever have to call demonologists to your home, there is no need to get defensive about not being a religious family. Just move out of the house.Director Wan gives us tastes of the haunted house/possession Big 3: The Exorcist, Poltergeist and Amityville Horror. It's not at the level of these, but it's certainly better than most horror films of the past two decades ... at least we don't get any stupid teenagers wandering through the woods. In fact, this one plays right off our natural tendency to feel safe and secure while surrounded by our family within the confines of our own home. The biggest scares come from the moments we are most relaxed.There are no spinning heads or pea soup, and the gore factor is exceptionally low considering Mr. Wan directed Saw, the film that kicked off torture-fest movie genre. The acting here is really good for a horror film. Patrick Wilson also starred in Wan's Insidious, and here he plays Ed Warren. With his clairvoyant wife Lorraine (Vera Farmiga), the Warrens are well known ghostbusters, ghost hunters, demonologists, or whatever label you care to apply. We learn about their most famous case regarding Annaelle the doll, and we also see how they save a trophy from each of their cases ... and store it in their home (a seemingly dumb move). Lili Taylor and Ron Livingston are also strong in their roles as the Perron parents. Another thing I liked was that the kids seem like real kids ... especially the recognizable Joey King and MacKenzie Foy.Horror and Comedy are both at the mercy of personal taste. It takes talent to direct a horror movie and not really introduce any new "gotcha's", but still keep the viewers grabbing the armrests. So enjoy the jumps, cover your eyes, and keep in mind ... if your dog won't enter your new house, it's time to move out!
Greetings again from the darkness. How about a little effort, folks? Writer/Director James L Brooks and Jack Nicholson have teamed up for three far superior films prior to this. Terms of Endearment, Broadcast News, and As Good As it Gets are all insightful dramadies that bring real life into relationships. This is billed as a Rom-Com, but the romance is distant and lame, and the comedy is all but non-existent.The very talented Paul Rudd plays George, son of Charles (Nicholson) who is the target of a federal investigation after his father sets him up by falsifying corporate financial documents. The problem is George is a really nice, honest guy and Charles is a lying scumbag who would throw his son to the federal wolves.In a seemingly unrelated story, Reece Witherspoon plays Lisa, a very talented softball player with an incredible track record and evidently serious skills. She gets cut from the Olympic team because of her advancing age (she will be 31 at the next Olympics). Lisa is dating Matty, played by Owen Wilson. Matty is a $14 million per year major league baseball player, who is also a player off the field.Everyone in this story is so very nice, but screwed up in their own way. That's actually a hopeful start. So one thing leads to another and George falls for Lisa. Lisa moves in with Matty, who lives in the Charles' building. Lisa then moves out. George is always there for Lisa while her life is in shambles. George's life is in shambles too, but all he cares about is Lisa. Any guess how this ends up? Of course you know. This script is not built for surprises. Or romance. Or comedy.The bulk of the comedy comes from a very pregnant Kathryn Hahn as Anne, whose life is also a bit of a mess. She is an unmarried, pregnant assistant to George, who worries about him, her and everything ... but she has such a big heart that she bakes and labels multiple dinners for George.Anyway ... the best part of the film is that we never get subjected to Owen Wilson throwing a pitch or Reese Witherspoon actually playing softball. There is so much talent associated with this film, but it definitely proves the point that the heart of a film is not in the direction or the acting, but in the script. For a similar story line, but far superior film, go re-watch When Harry Met Sally for the eighteenth time. It has comedy and romance and a worthy script.
Greetings again from the darkness. Sound and fury signify nothing. The narrator begins the film by reminding us of Shakespeare's words. I can't decide if this was a confession by Woody Allen when he realized the movie fits that phrase. I have followed Mr. Allen's film career since the early 70's and have learned that sometimes disappointment follows. Of course, there are also times when pure screen magic occurs and that makes the journey worthwhile. Unfortunately, there is no magic here, just sound and faux-fury.Here is a convoluted recap of the story: Elderly woman Helena (Gemma Jones) is dumped by her doesn't want to admit he's aging husband Alfie (Anthony Hopkins). He tries to be a swinging bachelor and ends up marrying a gold-digging call girl named Charlamaine (Lucy Punch). Helena looks for guidance from Cristal (Pauline Collins),a fortune teller referred by Helena's daughter Sally (Naomi Watts). Sally is married to Roy (Josh Brolin), a morally bankrupt one-hit wonder in the novel-writing business. She works at a very successful art gallery run by Greg (Antonio Banderas). Sally and Roy yell at each other a lot and Sally has eyes for Greg, who instead has eyes for Iris (Anna Friel), a painter Sally discovered. Roy has peeping eyes for Dia (Freida Pinto), whom he can see from his bedroom window.So, you get the idea. It is actually a set-up that fits perfectly with a Woody Allen film. A madcat story where no one is happy with their life and they each seek proof of their worth. Interesting that they seem to have some security with their current partner, but it's just not enough. The cast is stellar, and London makes the perfect setting. However, nothing really clicks. Manly Josh Brolin just doesn't wear neurosis well. I didn't enjoy watching Naomi Watts yell at people. Anthony Hopkins' character is such a pathetic re-tread that it really annoyed me. Mr. Allen obviously finds Freida Pinto appealing because her character gets perfect lighting and comes across as a victim, despite dumping her fiancé.Despite all the turns in these sub-plots, only one of the stories really has any finality to it. Now I don't mind endings that leave much to the imagination, but I do get irritated when it appears the filmmaker just lost interest. Even when that filmmaker is Woody Allen.
Greetings again from the darkness. Ridiculous non-thriller with no suspense from hack director Mennan Yapo. So many plot holes and stupid moments that I was tempted to walk out.Here is the best I can offer for positive feedback: Sandra Bullock is not as awful as she usually is. OK, here is one more ... the film only lasts about 90 minutes. Those are the only two things I can come up with.Kate Nelligan, who is usually solid appears to be embarrassed to appear in the film. Peter Stormare, who has many classic supporting roles on his resume is just plain awful in the inexcusably miscast role of a psychiatrist. Julian McMahon is so tight-lipped that we not only wonder why Bullock's character was ever attracted to him, we certainly can't figure out why the hot new "assistant manager" wants him. Nia Long is wasted as the best friend. Her big contribution is not being able to get the kids upstairs before the white coats barge in to drag Bullock out ... or maybe that was the acting police. Either way, she deserved to go.If you enjoy stupid, unbelievable, BORING, lackluster films with no suspense, then "Premonition" is certainly the one for you.
Greetings again from the darkness. Based on the novel by Harlan Coben, writer/director Guillaume Canet (who is also plays a small but crucial role in the film) delivers a very interesting, complicated story that is a great deal of fun ... in a stressful way! While not a big fan of the overall directing, I really appreciate this type of story and suspense.The acting was excellent led by Francois Cluzet as Dr. Beck who is suspected, if never accused, of murdering his wife eight years ago. Dealing with his grief and anger, Cluzet is a master of the moment. The entire cast did well, but I'll also point out Kristin Scott Thomas as a friend to Beck (and his sister's lover) and another nice performance from the always great Jean Rochefort (if you have never seen "The Hairdresser's Husband", check it out).There were a couple of scenes I could have lived without, but again, I enjoyed the suspense, mystery and tension of this thriller. Very different, yet somehow familiar, I had a difficult time figuring out how or if Dr Beck could prove his innocence. Good stuff.
Greetings again from the darkness. Edward Snowden. You know the name and you know the story. Hero of the People or Enemy of the State? Ultimate Patriot or a double-spy for the Russians? Protected as a Whistle-Blower or Guilty of Treason? Chances are you long ago made up your mind on how you view Ed (his stated name preference). In January 2013, Snowden contacted documentarian Laura Poitras via an anonymous email name "Citizenfour". By June, the two were meeting in a Hong Kong hotel along with journalist Glenn Greenwald. What follows is a mesmerizing look at the actual footage shot of Greenwald interviewing Snowden. This is Ed Snowden before the media storm. This is Ed Snowden continually proclaiming that he is not the story, and he is trusting Greenwald to determine what documents are fit for public release. He voices concern about jeopardizing national security, while at the same time being adamant about exposing the immense and widespread governmental tracking of digital movements by millions of people  most with no known ties to terrorism.The timeline is public record, so the core of the film is really an intimate look at the man who, acutely aware of the coming fallout, proceeded with pulling the curtain back on NSA actions that he deemed inappropriate. Ms. Poitras structures the film as a thriller, and it will certainly cause tension in every viewer. We can't help but put ourselves in Snowden's shoes. Would we feel the need to go public with proof? Who would we tell? How would we tell them? Would we be willing to release our name, knowing it could put everyone we love in danger? Would we be prepared to watch our President publicly call us out as unpatriotic and a danger to the nation? These questions are impossible for us to answer, but add weight to the scenes of Snowden answering Greenwald's questions while Ms. Poitras works the camera.One of the more interesting points made in the movie is that what we once termed individual freedom and liberties, is now couched as privacy. We have come to expect our privacy, and certainly don't appreciate our government digging through our emails, search history, texts and phone calls. But how to balance the individual "right" to privacy with the government's need to collect intelligence in the name of national security? That's the key question, and one with no clear answer.Regardless of your opinion on Snowden and his actions, the film presents him as an idealist believing he is doing the right thing. Most of this occurs before the media firestorm, but we do see the anticipated fallout. Once Snowden goes into hiding, we witness Greenwald becoming the face and voice of the cause. He is a talented journalist and exceptional speaker, and doesn't back down from the reaction of those who stand accused. The film allows us to take notice of the personal attacks on Snowden as an attempt discredit his documentation. Making Snowden the story distracted the media and the general public from the real issue. It's a fascinating film that will surely make you uncomfortable and cause re-evaluation of the chain of events. You may not change your mind, but you will most certainly have a better understanding of the human side.
Greetings again from the darkness. The tar pits of La Brea. Michael Corleone. These are the two things that come to mind as I grasp for descriptive terms to use for writer/director JC Chandor's latest film. Picture a slow simmer never quite reaching the boiling point  that's the designed tone here. It's certainly not the period piece crime thriller that the trailer might have you poised for. In fact, there is more focus on marital communication than the criminal element so prevalent for the times.In 1981, New York City was in the midst of an era filled with crime, corruption, violence and filth. Enter Abel Morales (Oscar Isaac) as a tough-minded, but idealistic owner of a heating oil business. Abel's vision is to become the top oil distributor, and remain a really good guy in the process. When he tells his less-idealistic competitors to "have some pride in their work", it's good advice to an audience incapable of comprehending. Despite regular violence and criminal activity against his drivers and trucks, Abel continues to deny he is at war  he truly believes if he can stay above the fracas, he can overcome the blight of his industry.We never really see Abel have a good day. Even the high points are paired with hard knocks. A signed contract is followed by bank woes. A kid's birthday party at the new house is interrupted by a search warrant. New market share is offset by a driver illegally defending himself. Each step Abel takes to realize his business vision is a potential land mine set by either his competitors or an ambitious District Attorney (David Oyelowo). And those aren't even his most animated battles. See, Abel has willed himself to extraordinary self-control. He never blows a gasket, even if the moment calls for it. The only exception to this is with his vicious business partner and wife Anna (Jessica Chastain). Anna grew up the daughter of a gangster  her dad once ran the business that she and Abel now run. Given the times, Anna takes a back seat to Abel and she handles the books, while he is the face of the business with banks, competitors and Teamsters. It's not difficult to imagine a movie focusing on Anna rather than Abel, and a couple of times, she makes it quite clear that she views herself as the real backbone of the business  a much tougher leader than her doe-eyed husband. Isaac and Chastain are exceptional here, and they both pull off very tough roles. Abel is a philosopher is a world of barbarians. He is the most polite angry person you have likely ever seen. Anna, on the other hand, is the pretty face masking a ruthless gangster. They each believe their own way is the best way. When Abel explains that 'The result is known', and that there is only 'one path that is most right', we immediately know he believes this and lives his life accordingly. In addition to Isaac, Chastain and Oyelow, other actors deserve recognition for their work here: Albert Brooks is Abel's consigliore, in a style reminiscent of his Drive character; Alessandro Nivola is the most frightening type of gangster  the quiet, powerful kind; Catalina Sandino Moreno (Maria Full of Grace) is outstanding in her only scene; Elyes Gabel captures the frustrated driver looking for hope; Peter Gerety is spot on as the Teamsters lead; and Jerry Adler is a most unusual Jewish business man.The camera work of cinematographer Bradford Young (Selma) helps make the style and story work. He films two of the most unusual chase scenes  one on foot across the highway, and another with a car and truck on railroad tracks and through a dark tunnel. Both are critical to story and character, and provide a stylistic flourish that pumps things up in a movie otherwise devoid of traditional action. The story is captivating because of things that are intimated, rather than things that are said. A couple of other films set in this era are Prince of the City and Serpico, and though the tone and look may be familiar, Chandor's approach is unique. It's not difficult to imagine Oscar Isaac took his acting cues from Al Pacino as Michael Corleone, and oddly enough, it's possible to imagine him as Tony Montana in a Scarface remake! At the core of all of these characters  the American Dream.
Greetings again from the darkness. This one has been on my radar since the Sundance Festival and all the raves about Elizabeth Olsen's performance. After attending a screening last evening, I find myself at a loss to adequately describe not just her stunning turn, but also this unusual film from writer/director Sean Durkin.On the surface, this sounds like just another movie peeking inside a creepy cult that brainwashes, and psychologically and physically abuses women, and is led by a charismatic (and creepy) religious style figure-head. There are many similarities to the Manson-family story of which much has been published, but Mr. Durkin takes the film in a much different and very creative direction by concentrating on what happens to Martha (Olsen) after she escapes the cult.In the Q&A, Durkin states he did much research and found the most fascinating story to be that of a cult escapee and what she went through during her first three weeks of freedom. Martha sneaks out early one morning and places a panic call to her older sister, whom she hasn't communicated with in two years. Settling in to the lake house with big sis and new brother-in-law, it becomes quite obvious that Martha doesn't know how to fit in society and has absolutely no interest in discussing her recent past.The sister is played very well by Sarah Paulson, and her husband is Hugh Dancy (so very good in Adam). This seemingly normal yuppie couple is trying to do right by Martha, but the fits of paranoia, outbursts of anger, and societal goofs are just too much for them.The genius of this film is in the story telling. The cinematic toggling between today and moments of time at the cult farm house leads the viewer right into the confused mind of Martha. We don't get much back story but it's obvious she was "ripe" for cult world when she was chosen. We see how Patrick, the quietly charismatic leader, sings her a song and steals her heart ... she wants so much to belong. We also see how she bonds with the other women at the farm house, and ends up in a situation that seems to snap her out just enough so she finds the strength to leave. The editing of scenes between these two worlds in outstanding and serve to keep the viewer glued to the screen.Last year I raved about an independent film called Winter's Bone. I chose it as one of the year's best and it ended with some industry award recognition. I am not willing to say this film is quite at that level, but I will say that the younger sister of the Olsen twins, Elizabeth, delivers an incredible first feature film performance and Sean Durkin deserves an audience for his first feature film as writer/director. Another bond between the two indies is that John Hawkes plays the cult leader Patrick, and Hawkes was a standout in Winter's Bone.There will undoubtedly be some debate about whether this is cutting edge independent filmmaking or just another snooty art-house mind-messer. All I can say is, I hope the film grabs enough audience for the debate to matter ... it deserves it.
Greetings again from the darkness. Just a preposterous story and film from all involved. Another film based on a Philip K. Dick novel, but this one trick pony just doesn't have the legs for the race.Acting whore Nicolas Cage sleep walks through another job for the paycheck. This time he plays Cris Johnson, psychic extrordinare, who moonlights as small time Vegas magician, Frank Cadillac. Naturally the FBI needs Cage to use his skills to track down a stolen nuclear war head before it blows up Los Angeles. The FBI agent in charge is Julianne Moore in her over-the-top tom boy/ tough gal mode. She is just so cool, we can't help but laugh! And if one ludicrous plot line wasn't enough, we must throw in a truly unbelievable love story with the beautiful Jessica Biel. Why did she take this role? It seems her part was thrown together while the film was being made. Basically Biel falls for Cage and the bad guys kidnap her and threaten to kill her so that Cage won't tell the FBI what the bad guys are planning. So logical. Evidently Peter Falk had nothing to do so they throw in one completely unnecessary and unexplained scene for the guy. Again ... Why?? The bright spot is that the head terrorist is played by Thomas Kretschmann, who you will remember as the ship captain in "King Kong". Mr. K makes for a "good" bad guy. OK, I guess one other bright spot ... a great Elvis song early on. The filmmakers saved their money with lousy special effects, a lousy script and ONE jacket for Cage. So it's only fair that you save your money for a real movie.
Greetings again from the darkness. A blend of documentary, expose' and drama, this film gives us an overview of Italy's Cammora crime family who controls so much of the Naples underworld. Based on the book by Roberto Saviano, the film's overview is offered through 5 sub-stories from the book. 5 stories that show the reach and link of this powerful syndicate.Don't expect the entertainment value of "The Godfather" or "Scarface", though the latter is blueprint to success for the two young men who envision seizing control from the lazy mobsters in their area. This is a stark, bleak and realistic view of the hopelessness of life in this area ... it approaches captivity. What is really interesting is the film depicts the crime world as one so many wish to join, yet those in it are every bit, if not more, the captive as those outside.The unique editing and choreography really provided the film with a distinctive flavor and served well to tie the pieces together for viewers spoiled by the traditional arc of story. Not sure why he felt the need, but thanks to Mr. Saviano for risking his (now in hiding) life to write the book.
Greetings again from the darkness. I have admitted many times that I am a sucker for Super Hero movies. There is just something really cool about an average guy falling bassackwards into super-human strength and being able to fly. With that said, I readily admit some Super Hero movies are better than others. While this one has some entertaining moments, it certainly isn't one of the better entries in this genre.It is difficult to know if a viewer is better off as a Green Lantern expert or novice for this adaptation. I can see both sides. The film beats us over the head with explanations, lectures and details but falls way short of the necessary action sequences.Basic storyline has test pilot Hal Jordan (Ryan Reynolds) chosen by "the ring" to become part of the Green Lantern Corps ... an intergalactic peace-keeping patrol. Yes, he would be the first human Lantern and no, he is not readily accepted by the leader Sinestro (Mark Strong). By the way, who would choose a guy named SINESTRO to be the leader of your good guy patrol? There are roughly a half million sub-stories that get a blip and then are cast aside. That's the film's biggest problem, next to the shortage of action sequences. Some stellar supporting actors here (in addition to Mark Strong) include Tim Robbins, Peter Sarsgaard, Angela Bassett, Michael Clarke Duncan and Geoffrey Rush. Duncan and Rush are voice only, but definitely have an impact. Blake Lively plays Carol Ferris, the co-pilot and would-be girlfriend of Jordan. She is also involved with her Daddy's defense contracting firm and just doesn't work as a high-powered exec.The film is directed by Martin Campbell who also gave us the near awesome re-awakening of James Bond in "Casino Royale" (2006). He seems to have a feel for action, but gets to use very little of that talent in this film. It really seems to me that the writing was too scattered and just generally weak for a movie of this size. I kept thinking we were going to get some real mind games between Sarsgaard's Elephant Man with psychic abilities and Reynold's perfect body Lantern. Instead, we get just another tease and a disappointing action sequence to end the film.
Greetings again from the darkness. Third in the Saw series developed by James Wan, this one is significantly better than the second, but falls short of the first, due mostly to the lack of freshness. Three is (as Two was)directed by Darren Lynn Bousman who benefits from a much more complex script and less complicated gadgets and contraptions.This story centers around Jigsaw (the eerily great Tobin Bell) playing one of his infamous games with a brilliant, yet detached doctor (played well by Bahan Soomekh) who is charged with keeping Jigsaw alive during his last test(s) on his protégé Amanda (played horribly in her third turn by Shawnee Smith). The twists are minimal in this story, but as opposed to Saw II, the twists and turns make sense.Be prepared for even more gore than the first two, but again we have no character that we really care about or pull for. Amanda may be one of the least sympathetic film characters ever. The flashback scenes are not very effective ... the exception being Donnie Wahlberg and his poor foot. As always, the best scenes include Tobin Bell and his lessons of life for the misguided souls who end up on the wrong end of his "fair" tests.
Greetings again from the darkness. Yes, this is the third in the unofficial Three Flavors Cornetto Trilogy, and my guess is if you know that, you have already seen this one. Director Edgar Wright has previously delivered is parody of Zombies (Shaun of the Dead), his parody of buddy-cop-action films (Hot Fuzz), and now takes on Sci-Fi in this latest ... a worthy ending with the trademark quick cuts and rapid fire witty/silly dialogue.I love the premise of this one. 5 buddies reluctantly reunite after 20 years to try to finish what they failed to in their youth: 12 pubs/12 pints ... an epic pub crawl. It touches on the male transition to middle-age and also reinforces the old saying 'you can't go home again'. Simon Pegg (also co-writer with Wright) stars as Gary King, a recovering addict who is quite simply struggling with adulthood. His manic energy reunites the boys and carries the early movie. Nick Frost really shines here and takes on a different persona from the previous two movies.As I have stated many times, comedies are the most difficult genre to review as everyone's sense of humor varies. What I can report is that I laughed quite a bit at the dialogue, but didn't have much love for the sci-fi portions, despite some similarities to Westworld and The Stepford Wives. Oh, and Rosamund Pike reminded me again why I am no fan of hers (yes, I realize I'm in the minority).Hardcore fans will enjoy the steady stream of regular Wright faces, and yes, we do get the expected failed fence jump. This one won't stick with me for long, but I appreciated the laughs.
Greetings again from the darkness. Two years ago, director Todd Phillips presented a highly creative, hilarious, raunchy, unique film comedy called The Hangover. And now, he does it again. He presents that SAME film again. I am unsure whether this is a sequel or remake. The only substantial change is the setting ... Bangkok instead of Vegas.Now I fully understand WHY most sequels follow the formula created by the successful original film. Filmmakers want to keep their audience satisfied. If it worked once, it will work again. Especially when the first film grosses a half-billion dollars! So the chances are very good that if you liked the first one, you will also enjoy this one. But for me, I get excited for creative filmmakers ... not re-treads.The key characters are all back and played by the same guys: Bradley Cooper (Phil), Ed Helms (Stu), Zach Galifianakis (Alan), Justin Bartha (Doug), and Ken Leong (Mr. Chow). All of these guys have worked constantly since the first film, but it makes perfect sense to return to the scene that put them on the Hollywood map.This time around, Stu (Ed Helms) draws the long straw and has the storyline based on his pending marriage to Jamie Chung (Sucker Punch). Stu's "wolfpack" buddies agree to a one-beer bonfire beach bachelor party, but of course, something goes very wrong. The next morning finds our boys staggering to regain consciousness in a sleazy Bangkok hotel with no recollection of the previous night's events. The only clues are a monkey, a severed finger, a facial tat and international criminal Mr. Chow.No need for me to go into any details or spoil any moments. You know the drill if you have seen the first. What follows is nearly two hours of debauchery and moments of varying levels of discomfort, gross-out and comedic skits.Supporting work is provided by Paul Giamatti, Jeffrey Tambor, and Mason Lee (Ang Lee's son). There is also a cameo by Nick Cassavetes as a tattoo artist. This role was originally meant for Mel Gibson, and later Liam Neeson. Cast and crew protests kept Gibson out and Neeson's scenes were cut when re-shoots were necessary.I feel tricked by Mr. Phillips. The first Hangover had me excited that a new comedic genius had entered Hollywood and would quickly blow away the Judd Apatow recycle jobs and copycats. Instead, we get Todd Phillips copying Todd Phillips.This is certainly an above-average comedy and there are plenty of laughs from the characters we kind of feel like we know - though, wish we didn't. Just know going in that are witnessing a clear attempt at cashing in, not a desire to wow.
Greetings again from the darkness. Writer/director Judd Apatow is a true Hollywood powerhouse and seems to only direct his best material (Knocked Up, 40 Year Old Virgin). Here, Adam Sandler joins the Apatow ensemble, and it's a good thing, because none of the others have the acting chops to pull off his role.Seth Rogen stumbles his way through the back-stabbing, wanna-be comedian who Sandler's dying legend selects as an assistant, writer, friend. The extremely long movie meanders through themes of comedy, fame, ego, aspirations, love lost, terminal disease, friendship, marriage, etc. Probably too much for this group to pull off, though, as always there are some terrific Apatow moments. Eminem, while seemingly just plucked down in the film, brings a charge and a couple of guffaws.Apatow's wife, Leslie Mann, again flashes her skills and is a pleasure to watch. Her scenes with Sandler and Eric Bana are pretty funny. Jonah Hill, Jason Schwartzman and Aubrey Plaza all provide some support, as do some cameos by other comedians - Sarah Silverman, Norm MacDonald, Paul Reiser, etc.Sadly, this project was just a bit too much for this troupe at this point in time. I do give them credit for stretching themselves and I am sure greatness awaits. Kudos for the poster of "The Last Detail", one of my all time favorite films.
Greetings again from the darkness. So many movies take advantage of our expectations and have a basis of familiarity in everything from community to setting to character personality and reactions. Every so often a movie comes along that reminds us there really is no such thing as "typical". People and communities are all different. Some are more different than others, but none I have witnessed come close to the Bathtub ... a self-contained world on the "wrong" side of the levee.This small community of folks are clearly poverty stricken by societal standards, but their ability to live off the land and support each other is a world that will fascinate, frighten and inspire you. Wink is not the warm-hearted single dad we are often spoon-fed by Hollywood. Instead he is a fierce protector and teacher of survival techniques to his equally fierce daughter Hushpuppy. She is a force of nature and displays a near-feral intensity that will leave you speechless.There is no need for much detail here as this film is best experienced with little upfront knowledge. First time director Benh Zeitlin lives in New Orleans and co-wrote the screenplay with Lucy Alibar, whose one-act play the story is based. They wisely chose two non-professional actors as their leads, and both are stunning. Dwight Henry is a local pastry baker and family man, but you will struggle to believe that as you watch him fight the elements, time and a serious disease.As terrific as Mr. Henry is, the one who left me breathless was Quvenzhane Wallis as Hushpuppy. She is a six year old girl and hits the screen like no one you have ever seen. She is in-tune with the animals, nature and this wilderness life she is leading. Despite her internal strength, we are periodically reminded of the imagination and life-through-the-eyes of a 6 year old. A prime example is when she accidentally starts a fire, she immediately hides in a cardboard box assuming she is safe if she can't see the flames. Just as quickly, Hushpuppy proves just how unusual she is as she stakes her claim in being remembered in the Bathtub long after she is gone.If you are a fan of independent filmmaking or take particular pleasure in unusual stories and characters, this is definitely one to see. The rave reviews from Sundance carry through to your local cineplex.
Greetings again from the darkness. Normally if a sequel shows up a mere two years after the original, we would have good reason for low expectations. However, director Guy Ritchie is back and just as importantly, Robert Downey Jr and Jude Law reprise their roles as Sherlock Holmes and Dr. Watson. Sticking to the successful template provided by the original, the team delivers one that is sure to keep the fans happy.The reason so many Sir Arthur Conan Doyle loyalists dismissed the first film is that the frenetic pace and towering action sequences seem to go against what made the original stories so great. So what does Mr. Ritchie do? He goes BIGGER and FASTER! There are three extended action sequences that are mind-boggling to watch. They work because the plot is so elementary, my dear. Professor Moriarty is out to cause a war from which he can personally profit. His plan involves guns, bombs and assassinations. Only our heroes can possibly stop him.Much of the odd-ball bromance from the first movie has been toned down here, and we get not only the return of Irene Adler (Rachel McAdams), Watson's wife (Kelly Reilly), but also the introduction of third female character - a gypsy fortune teller, Madame Simza (played by the original Girl with the Dragon Tattoo, Noomi Rapace). Of course, McAdams character doesn't last long, Reilly gets tossed from a moving train, and Rapace is given only a few running scenes. There may be more women, but this is still a man's world.The vision for this franchise is an updated version that encourages discovery of Holmes by a new generation. And while Downey is excellent, it's difficult not to notice the similarities to Captain Jack Sparrow. Also, Professor Moriarty is very much a Bond-type villain. None of that matters too much as the rapid-fire dialogue between Holmes and Watson, and the crackling chemistry between Downey and Law, make this a fun time at a huge holiday movie.It seems odd that the release date for this one is so close to that of the new Mission:Impossible, but they both deliver what the fans want and hopefully find their audience. Even if you aren't a fan, the fabulous sets and various world filming locations will keep you interested, even as you dodge giant explosions.
Greetings again from the darkness. Duncan Jones (son of David Bowie) was the writer/director for a terrific 2009 film called "Moon" (highly recommended). Here he stays in the sci-fi realm with a thrilling and brainy script from Ben Ripley. The best, most accessible sci-fi films not only don't require the viewer to hold a Ph.d, but they also don't talk down to us. This is a fast-moving script with a smart (though a bit preposterous) premise, and plenty of reality to keep us glued to the screen ... and hanging on every word spoken.It's impossible to write much about the film and not give away some of the stuff that makes it fun, so I will be very brief. Trying to figure out what's happening, how it's happening, and whether they can stop it from happening again ... well, that's just about all a movie lover can hope for! So I won't give away any more than what the trailer sets up.Jake Gyllenhaal is Colter Stevens and he is involved in a remarkable project that allows "time travel" to a parallel universe so that a military contractor can discover the terrorist who bombed a train. The first time he wakes up on the train across from Christina (Michelle Monaghan) he has no idea who she is or where he is. 8 minutes later he is face to face with Captain Goodwin's face (Vera Farmiga) on a monitor and her voice telling him to calm down. Her boss (Jeffrey Wright) is some type of ambitious genius trying to make a name and a buck for himself.The story evolves by Gyllenhaal being sent back and forth between "then and now" on numerous occasions with the mission of uncovering the identity of the bomber. Of course, Gyllenhaal is a good soldier and wants to go above and beyond the call of duty. That's where the film gets tricky and brilliant.Director Jones works wonders with the camera and we are treated to some fascinating images - both large (Chicago) and small (Gyllenhaal in a train restroom). Great stuff here. That's about all I will say on this one. It should be obvious how much I like it. Also, a fun note ... the phone voice of Gyllenhall's father is that of Scott Bakula, who is known for his role in the TV series "Quantum Leap", also a time travel premise.
Greetings again from the darkness. The most recent adaptation of a Cormac McCarthy novel brought us the fantastic No Country for Old Men (Coen Bros.). McCarthy's post-apocalyptic The Road did not seem to set up well as filmed entertainment. Director John Hillcoat proves otherwise.Make no mistake. This film is as bleak and filled with despair as any you have ever seen. This is not the SFX of fluff like 2012. This is the humanistic side of desperation and survival in a world where what little has survived seems grotesque and evil.It is a phenomenal movie from a technical aspect, yet a higher rating seems off the mark, as so very few movie goers will find the entertainment value of such an achievement. While viewing, one can't help but weigh the ever-present option of suicide. What would we do in this situation? Do you continue to carry the fire or do you ask, what's the point, and hit the eject trigger? If you thought Charlize Theron was unappealing in Monster, you will find her absolutely intolerable here. Her beauty is overridden by her angst and unwillingness to continue the fight for her survival. Is she the rational one or totally selfish? Really good question.The vast majority of the film is Viggo Mortensen and Kodi Smit-McPhee on their quest for the coast ... their ultimate goal for survival. The gray and lifeless landscape would (and does)suck the hope and soul right out of most. Viggo keeps trudging while teaching his young, more sensitive son, who by the way, is a dead ringer for Charlize (were she a 12 year old boy). The grayness of the film is so intense, that the dream/flashback sequences couldn't help but make me wonder if life were black and white, would dreams be vivid and colorful? Fans of No Country for Old Men will catch a glimpse of Garret Dillahunt as the hillbilly gang member who stumbles upon the Father and Son - Dillahunt was Tommy Lee Jones' entertaining deputy. Robert Duvall and Guy Pearce also have brief, but welcome, supporting roles. Duvall actually does quite a bit with his limited lines.While it seems odd to release this one at Thanksgiving - it's not in the tradition of mass-appeal holiday fare, it is a must see for any true film lover or literature addict. To see the gray and stillness become as overwhelming as what is usually limited to one's imagination is worth the effort.
Greetings again from the darkness. This one showed promise to deliver the rare, offbeat, genuine indie genius that those of us who spend entirely too much time in dark theatres live for. How many romantic-dramadies combine caustic comedy, elements of sci-fi, and are inspired by a real life newspaper ad? Not very darn many.The set-up for the story is that Jeff (Jake Johnson), a Seattle magazine writer, suggests to his editor that the newspaper ad would make an interesting investigative report. To get a feel for the movie, reading the ad is essential: WANTED: Someone to go back in time with me. This is not a joke. You'll be paid after we get back. Must bring your own weapons. I have only done this once before. SAFETY NOT GUARANTEED.Jeff takes two interns on assignment with him: Darius (Aubrey Plaza) and Arneau (Karan Soni). Darius is a sarcastic loner and recent college grad. Arneau is a virgin nerd who skates ever so close to an Indian stereotype. He is actually quite funny and easy to root for. Unknown to the interns, Jeff has ulterior motives for taking this job, and the bulk of the work will fall to them.Darius quickly tracks down and connects with Kenneth (Mark Duplass). He seems quite committed to the time travel cause and is a bit skeptical of Darius. The Kenneth character can best be described as a NICE Dwight from "The Office". He veers from the "normal" line, but has a heart of gold. Once Kenneth and Darius confess their reasons for going back in time, it's clear to the viewers that these two share a rare DNA strand. Humor kicks in during their training sessions ... of course, you need martial arts skills and the ability to shoot straight if you plan to time travel.The comedy and romance elements are complimented by undertones of regret, paranoia, loneliness and the desire to connect. These same tones play right into Jeff's sub-plot. When he finds his high school crush (Jessica Bergere), she asks him about his life. His answer is limited to "Escalade and Condo". She soon has him considering what else life can offer. Kenneth and Darius discover that trust is not a four letter word. Even Arneau finds out that human interaction can be better than a blazing fast laptop.The results of the time travel plan aren't really important, though it does play a role in the final act. As with the best movies, what really matters are the people. These are people we can relate to because they come across as real ... not perfect, but real. As likable as the characters are, there still seemed to be something missing that prevented this film from reaching the next level. Maybe it has to do with first feature film director Colin Trevorrow or his writer Derek Connolly. The missing link is not easily identifiable, but it doesn't prevent enjoyment.
Greetings again from the darkness. Based the true story of a bank heist in 1971 London, this is a slick little movie with nothing really new to offer. Long time director Roger Donaldson is known for both fluff such as "Cocktail" and quasi-action films like "The Recruit". His best film is a bio-pic called "The World's Fastest Indian". While this one is not at that level, it is easily watchable, if ultimately a bit empty.Action star Jason Statham is trying to make the transition to real acting. His short-comings are obvious here in the scenes with his wife. Still, he has definite charisma as an action guy and is at his best in the few high-octane, testosterone-fueled scenes. The weakness of the overall cast is best exemplified by the fact that Saffron Burrows ("Boston Legal") is the second lead in this. She is so awkward in front of the camera that everyone struggles playing off her. The rest of the gang is mediocre at best ... no real standouts.This one is not as much fun to watch as say "The Italian Job" because it lacks the action of the heist and the fun of planning. Here we get a few shots of some guys digging a tunnel. Most of the action occurs after the heist. The best part is realizing that less than 40 years ago, this job was pulled off by a gang of goofs in a major city like London.Go in with low expectations and you will find the film somewhat enjoyable.
Greetings again from the darkness. If you are a fan of the series, this is a sensational ending to the Christopher Nolan Batman trilogy. Though replicating Heath Ledger's Joker is not possible, every other piece of this finale worked for me ... and worked exceptionally well. There are critics who are nit-picking, saying that the story is muddled, the villain a letdown, run time too long, the first half is slow or the second half is too traditional in action. My challenge to these critics ... name a better comic book hero film. For me, this is an incredibly entertaining and ambitious film that sets the standard for the genre.In addition to director Nolan, many of the familiar characters are back. Christian Bale as Bruce Wayne/Batman, Michael Caine as Alfred, Gary Oldman as Commissioner Gordon and Morgan Freeman as Luscious Fox. New to the series are Anne Hathaway as Selina Kyle/Catwoman, Joseph Gordon-Levitt as Officer Blake, Marion Cotillard as Miranda Tate, and best of all, Tom Hardy as Bane - the hulking masked monster wreaking havoc on Batman and Gotham.I will not go into any of the plot points other than to say this is the first time we have seen a villain who is at least Batman's match physically and mentally. Bane is a wrecking ball with a general's strategic skills and voice that is begging to impersonated by intoxicated high school boys for years to come. There are a couple of twists that add much fun for the fans of the first two films, including an appearance by a key member of Batman Begins. Also, Michael Caine is given a couple of wonderful scenes to prove he is more than a driver and butler.Since this is Batman, the action scenes have to be analyzed. It should be noted that Batman is not on screen very often, but when he is, it is quite thrilling. We have new toys and weapons, and quite a bit of fisticuffs with Bane and Catwoman that compete with any of the giant firepower scenes.Neither Mr. Nolan nor his DOP Wally Pfister are proponents of 3D (Thank Goodness!!), so instead we get treated to 50 minutes of actual 70mm IMAX footage. This means, if possible, you should catch this on an IMAX screen. I have seen it IMAX and XD, and while both are visually stunning, the IMAX is an overwhelming site at times.The movie picks up 8 years after the ending of The Dark Knight. Harvey Dent is worshiped as a hero, and Bruce Wayne is a Howard Hughes type recluse - broken body and all. The initial aerial sequence is a fun start to a film that runs just under 3 hours. Contrary to some critics, I believe the story is fairly easy to follow and quite intense, thrilling and pure cinematic joy.For those who claim there is a lack of humor ... Exhibit #1: Hines Ward returning a kickoff for a TD. Come on, how long since he was fast enough for that??Note: Though I haven't addressed the Aurora shooting here, I did post a statement on my blog at www.moviereviewsfromthedark.wordpress.com
Greetings again from the darkness. Even as a kid, I never understood why God needed so much money. Business I understood. Religion was presented as the spiritual necessity of the cleansed and righteous soul ... yet tithing of less than 10% was considered selfish. On the other hand, business was upfront about the mission of profit. To me, there was only the finest of lines between the two. PT Anderson makes my point in a far more stylish manner than I could ever hope.The extraordinary lord of acting, Daniel Day-Lewis is once again bigger than life on screen ... this time as Daniel Plainview, a self-proclaimed oilman and hater of people. Day-Lewis is so fascinating in that he is one of the few actors that just grab your eyes and hold on while he is on screen. Here, his subtle gestures and eye movements are more than enough to hold us at attention. He has the look and feel of an oilman at the turn of the century. We also know for certain that he is a tortured soul.Mr. Plainview's nemesis is not just the dirt he drills in, but also the young prophet, Eli Sunday, played to spooky perfection by Paul Dano (so wonderful as the son/brother in "Little Miss Sunshine"). In their few scenes together, it is like watching two expert fighters with opposite style go at each other. Plainview's prop is his cute, young son (played well by Dillon Freasier) and Eli's prop is the cross around his neck. Just a guilty pleasure watching these two spar.Based on Upton Sinclair's novel "Oil", director PT Anderson (the underrated "Magnolia" and "Punch Drunk Love" and the overrated "Boogie Nights") provides a film that on the surface appears quiet, while ... like the oil ... just under the surface is simmering with emotion and action. The majestic performance of Day-Lewis brings it all together, but Anderson must receive credit for some stunning shots and tension filled scenes.The film has a very unusual look and feel so to compliment it, we are given a score from Jonny Greenwood (of Radiohead fame). The guitar is haunting and, at times startling. What prevents this one from pure greatness is the over-the-top final sequences between Plainview and Eli. If that scene had been handled differently, the last scene with Plainview and his son would have been even more powerful.
Greetings again from the darkness. Every now and then we are reminded of just how stunning movies can be. Periodically a filmmaker proves to us that pushing the envelope of creativity still drives some auteurs. James Cameron brought us Avatar, which demonstrated that 3D technology could be beautiful and breath-taking. As beautiful and new as Cameron's breakthrough was, it lacked a story worthy of it advancements. Now, we get director Ang Lee's vision of Yann Martel's worldwide bestseller, and we are left gasping at what happens when you combine a fantastical story with technological advances and perfection.Ang Lee has provided us with a varied selection of films including Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon; Brokeback Mountain; and Sense and Sensibility. He refuses to be limited by genre and takes a global and philosophical view of filmmaking. He wants us to think and discuss and think some more. His Life of Pi film purposefully leaves many scenes, events and thoughts open to interpretation. You can see as much or as little of humanity in this story as you like.The brilliant opening shows real animals in the real zoo located in Pondicherry, India. The colors, sights and sounds are dazzling and give us an immediate feel for the area. We meet young Pi and his family. Pi is inquisitive and ingenious from an early age. His father imparts such wisdom as "If you believe in everything, you believe in nothing". This comes as Pi is absorbing multiple religions and considers himself Hindu/Muslim/Christian. At an early age, he seeks answers and meaning. Soon enough, Pi and his family take their most valued animals on a ship to Canada. Disaster strikes when a storm capsizes the ship and Pi is the lone human survivor. He finds himself in a small lifeboat with a hyena, an orangutan, and a huge Bengal tiger.The developments need not be discussed here, but rather the focus of the story is the spirit of survival that Pi possesses. His ingenious methods of learning to coexist with the ferocious tiger force us to consider what the human race has done to nature in too many regards to count. Pi's religious spirit and insightful ways, coupled with a very specific survival guide, lead him to maneuver 227 days adrift in the Pacific. In the process, we are treated to some of the most spectacular visuals ever seen on screen. At times the sea, and its sea life and sky, are phosphorescent. The story is so amazing that we find ourselves not caring how much is real and how much is caused by Pi's hunger and thirst. Some of the visual effects are tranquil, while others are quite violent. A sequence featuring flying silver fish is something to behold.The structure of the story is such that an adult Pi (played by Irrfan Khan) is re-telling the tale of survival to a Canadian novelist (Rafe Spall). While this is a traditional story-telling device, it takes nothing away from the anything but traditional story of Pi and Richard Parker (the tiger's name). We are told "This is a story that will make you believe in God". Whether it does or it doesn't, it certainly makes us believe in the magic of movies.Some will compare to Castaway, while others will think of 127 Hours. My best advice is to let go and give yourself to the story and the film. There is always time afterwards for debate and discussion. Instead, enjoy the moment and be thankful that a movie like this can get made ... it will lead the industry to even more creative productions down the road. So, just this once, forget what I have said many times, and go see this one in 3D. Allow it to take you away.
Greetings again from the darkness. The best thing I can say about this one is I tip my cap to the producer/casting director for assembling a remarkable cast in spite of the (at its best) lame script. The 4 middle aged men hitting the road to rediscover their soul is simply no comparison to either of the "City Slicker" films.Directed by Walt Becker ("Van Wilder") and written by Brad Copeland ("My Name is Earl", "Arrested Development"), the biggest surprise is the paucity of memorable, or even slightly funny one-liners. Tim Allen and Martin Lawrence should have been able to come up at least a handful of zingers, instead there are maybe 2-3 that warrant a chuckle.This pack of famous actors is unable to salvage this unfunny comedy. John Travolta, in particular, is over the top and just sad in most scenes. William H Macy has the most to work with and actually has the best moments in the film. Martin Lawrence and Tim Allen are wasted. Additionally, Martin Lawrence is 10-15 years younger than the other three leads. How did they grow up together?The supporting cast is deep and mostly underutilized. Marisa Tomei has made 6 years of bad script decisions (since 2001's excellent "In the Bedroom"). What's wrong with her? She is talented, beautiful and charming ... and for goodness sake, she has an Oscar! Find a decent script lady. Jill Hennessey ("Crossing Jordan"), Ray Liotta, the Sklar twins and a cameo by Peter Fonda are all disappointing. The exceptions are John C McGinley in a slightly funny turn as a very interesting motorcycle cop and Stephen Tobolowsky as the internet-trained small town sheriff.In addition to the beating provided by the script, as a viewer we are subjected to numerous product placements by Apple Computers ... including a ridiculous tat on Mr. Macy's bicep; and even worse is the mostly weak attempt to put together "tough" guitar riffs from a seemingly unending stream of over used rock songs. After 45 minutes, I wondered how long until a Bon Jovi song would make an appearance. Sure enough ... when "Dead or Alive" chords started, it caused my biggest laugh of the evening.
Greetings again from the darkness. I would love to compare this to "Chronicles of Narnia", "Pan's Labrynth" or any of the 'Potter' films, but it just doesn't come close. The story plods to the point of boring and only a couple of action scenes even give credence to special effects crew ... or better yet, community.With a stellar cast and a popular novel (by the controversial Philip Pullman), director Chris Weitz is just plain overmatched. He delivers a mishmash of individual scenes and just can't connect the dots into a cohesive story. Some of the shots are out of focus and the score is weak and flat and distracting.The few bright spots are delivered by the Ice Bears (really cool) and three of the greatest voices of all time ... Sir Ian McKellan, Christopher Lee (regretably only one line) and Sam Elliott. Also terrific is newcomer Dakota Blue Richards as Lyra. She definitely has something. Nice to see Daniel Craig and one of his Bond girls (Eva Green) back together ... though not actually sharing a scene. Also good is Jim Carter in a supporting role.Nicole Kidman just can't pull off her role and I am not sure if it the way the character is written or the manner in which she plays it. Compare her to Tilda Swinton in "Narnia" and you'll see what I mean. Nicole (who appears to be 7 ft tall in most scenes) just doesn't have the same icy stare, despite some colorized eye balls! This one is just downright disappointing and I believe most kids will find it boring and unsatisfying ... most adults will as well.
Greetings again from the darkness. This film was nominated for seven Academy Awards (no wins), including Best Picture. Watching it today, it seems clear that the courtroom scene with Humphrey Bogart in the chair as Lt. Cmdr. Queeg drove this film to the heights it reached. That few minutes is as powerful as anything Bogart ever did on screen. Unfortunately, he would pass away (esophagal cancer) less than three years later.The first part of the film is solid enough as we meet newly graduated Ensign Willie Keith (Robert Francis). His first Navy assignment is aboard a minesweeper (junkyard Navy) and the veteran officers quickly note his disappointment at not being assigned to a more prestigious carrier. Those veteran officers are played by quite a list of actors: Van Johnson plays no-nonsense Lt. Steve Maryk, Fred MacMurray plays the cynical wannabe novelist Lt. Tom Keefer, and Tom Tully plays Cmdr DeVriess, who irritates young Willie with his laid back approach to command. We also see Lee Marvin and Claude Akins as part of the ship's rag-tag crew.A shift occurs once Queeg replaces DeVriess. Queeg brings a tough old school Navy approach to the ship and is easily thrown by the sight of an untucked shirt. Over a short amount of time, the officers begin taking note of the odd behavior of Queeg. MacMurray's character acts as an armchair psychologist, and more importantly, an instigator for the other officers. He is sure Queeg is unstable and unfit for duty. The climax occurs during a typhoon and Lt Maryk (Johnson) takes the abrupt step of relieving Queeg of his duties ... an action that's never actually occurred aboard a Naval ship.Soon Maryk and Willie are brought up on charges of mutiny. At about the 90 minute mark, their attorney makes his first appearance. Jose Ferrer plays Lt. Greenwald, the only naval attorney who would take the case against the highly decorated Commander. Watching Queeg (Bogart) on the stand is just about as good as acting gets. Ferrer is exceptional as well.This film is about the character of men and their reactions to situations in which they are trained to act otherwise. It's based on the WWII novel by Herman Wouk, and the screenplay is by Stanley Roberts. The film is directed by Edward Dmytryk, who you may know as one of the "Hollywood Ten". Dmytryk spent time in prison for his lack of cooperation with HUAC, and his previous involvement with the communist party. The score is outstanding and was composed by the famous Max Steiner, who was also responsible for a couple of other films you may have seen: Casablanca and Gone with the Wind. It should also be noted that this was the second of five total films made by Robert Francis (Ens Willie Keith). The 25 year old up and coming actor was killed in a plane crash the year after this film was made.
Greetings again from the darkness. Homer hits it right on the head just as the movie starts when he stands up and asks "why would anyone pay to see a movie of something they can watch for free on TV?". This is just a 2 hour episode. Now, it is funny and most enjoyable to watch, but it really doesn't qualify as movie and it certainly doesn't deserve the Top 250 on this site.There is the usual convoluted story from creators Matt Groening and James L. Brooks and "Monsters, Inc." director does a pretty decent job of working in the multitude of characters we expect to see. For my money, there was a bit too much Spider-Pig, but I did enjoy the whole dome thing.Bottom line, this is exactly what we would expect from this franchise ... plenty of funny characters, great lines, social commentary and lots of laughs. What is isn't, is a great film.
Greetings again from the darkness. This one showed up near the finish line of the classic Film Noir era, and has some features that make it stand out: unusual female characters, a quasi-parody feel, and a twisty ending unlike others from the genre. Based loosely on the Mickey Spillane pulp novel, the screenplay comes from AI Bezzerides, who is best known as the creator of the TV series "The Big Valley". The biggest impact comes from director Robert Aldrich.Aldrich is a bit under-appreciated in Hollywood history having also directed Whatever Happened to Baby Jane; Hush, Hush, Sweet Charlotte; The Dirty Dozen; and The Longest Yard (the good one). Here he turns up the intensity on the Private Investigator story by having Mike Hammer (a terrific Ralph Meeker) be quite a bit more forceful and aggressive than Marlowe and the previous film PI's.The film starts quite abruptly with one of the more fascinating beginnings in all of cinema. A panicky woman is running barefoot down a highway wearing nothing but a bathrobe. That woman is Cloris Leachman (her screen debut) and she nearly causes Hammer to wreck his pristine Jaguar. Their relationship doesn't last long, but it leads to a very unique torture scene that is almost entirely out the viewer's sight line. Still, we quickly realize Hammer is in some deep trouble and he's not the kind to let it be.Two other very interesting female characters are part of the story: Gaby Rodgers plays Lily Carver as a conniving trickster and Maxine Cooper is outstanding as Velda, Hammer's trusty assistant and maybe more. Ms. Rodgers and Ms. Cooper have other common ground. They soon disappeared from Hollywood films as both married powerful men in the business. Rodgers married the famous songwriter Jerry Lieber, who wrote many Elvis hits. and Cooper married an Oscar nominated writer.The cast features many prominent actors of the time including Albert Dekker, Paul Stewart, Wesley Addy, Nick Dennis, Jack Elam, and Jack Lambert. There is also a Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid connection. Strother Martin has a brief scene as does Percy Helton (as the Medical Examiner). In Butch Cassidy movie, Martin is the Bolivian payroll supervisor who hires the boys, and Helton is "Sweetface" who gives away their hiding place. Another note on Helton: he had one of the longest acting careers in history 1915-1978 (which was 7 years after his death).If you love films from the 40's and 50's, then this is a must see. It certainly has a place in Film Noir lore, and also has numerous other points of interest. Keep in mind that it was filmed at the height of the Atomic Bomb era ... when scare tactics were the norm.
Greetings again from the darkness. I am struggling a bit with how much to say about this one. It is such a different type of film that it's difficult to categorize. Yes, it is definitely an Action-Thriller (in the Bourne vein), but it also has some dark comedy, as well as some commentary on parenting, governmental agencies and coming of age.Let me first say that I highly recommend the film if you are an fan of thrillers and/or action films. It succeeds well on both fronts. However, there is much more to this movie, particularly the fantastic talents of Saoirse Ronan. You will remember her stunning turns in both "Atonement" and "The Lovely Bones". Here she plays Hanna, a girl raised in the deep forest by her father (Eric Bana). His sole purpose in raising her was to train her to be a deadly weapon in any situation. Oh and he also "schooled" her with some generic encyclopedia that evidently was a gas station giveaway. Her head is filled with facts, figures and data on all parts of the world, and somehow she speaks an infinite number of languages.When she finally tires of gutting deer in the wild, she tells her father she is "ready". We then find out that her father is some type of former CIA agent and with the flip of a sonar switch, the two separate and the CIA moves in to capture her. While sitting in a secured bunker in the desert, her "mission" becomes clear. She is to kill the CIA agent played by Cate Blanchett. That's when the movie kicks into gear.What follows are some terrific action and fight sequences, a wonderful segment where Hanna hangs out with a traveling British family led by Olivia Williams and Jason Flemyng ... and their daughter Sophie, played exceptionally well by Jessica Barden. The "friendship" that Sophie and Hanna create really brings into focus how sheltered from society Hanna has been.The cat and mouse chase with Blanchett and her goons would have worked better if Blanchett's character had been better defined and she wasn't just god-awful in it. Usually Ms. Blanchett is a strong actress who adds much to a film. Here, she is the dead-weight keeping it from reaching even greater heights.The film is directed by Joe Wright, who has also provided "Pride and Prejudice", "Atonement", and "The Soloist". The man knows how to make a movie ... and that's why this is so much more than an action flick. I must also mention that the Chemical Brothers are standouts with the film score, and though it catches you off guard at first, it really adds impact and effect to the film. There have been a few recent films with young girls in action/fight films. And while Chloe Moretz was excellent in "Kick-Ass", this film is far superior. Get to know Saoirse (pronounced Sur-Shuh) Ronan. She is a real talent!
Greetings again from the darkness. Political thrillers can be so juicy and filled with "gotcha" moments and "oh how could he/she" scenes. Inevitably, most come down to an "I believed in you" showdown and reckoning. This latest one based on the play Farragut North by Beau Willimon, gives George Clooney an opportunity to play out his political aspirations without opening himself to the real thing.Clooney also directs and the smartest move he made was assembling an ensemble cast of some of the best actors working today. Clooney plays Pennsylvania Governor Mike Morris, who is one of two still-standing Democratic Presidential contenders on the verge of the Ohio primary. His Campaign Manager is grizzled campaign veteran Paul, played with staunch principals and black and white rule book by Philip Seymour Hoffman. Their talented and idealistic Press Secretary Stephen is played by Ryan Gosling. Their opponent's manager Tom Duffy is played by Paul Giamatti. Duffy oozes cynicism and seems to have lost the rule book that Paul holds so dearly.The film begins with the set-up so we get a feel for just how strong or weak of character each of these men are. Morris (Clooney) is obviously an Obama-type idealist who claims his religion is the US Consitution. He says this while gently poking fun at his opponent's Christian beliefs. We see just how talented Stephen (Gosling) character is at handling the words that Clooney speaks and we see Paul (PSH) in full back room politico maneuvering.The film has two huge points where the mood swings. The first is a contrived, definite no-no meeting between the ambitious Stephen and the shrewd Duffy. The second is a sequence between Stephen and a 20 year old campaign intern named Molly (Evan Rachel Wood), who also happens to be the daughter of the Chairman of the DNC. These two events turn the film from political thriller to melodramatic Hollywood fare. That doesn't make it less of a movie, it's just different than it began.Cat and mouse games ensue and we see just who is the master manipulator amongst a group of professionals. This is one of those films where the individual pieces are actually more interesting than the whole pie. There are two really excellent exchanges between Gosling and Hoffman. Ms. Wood steals her scenes with ease. Jeffrey Wright nails his brief time as a desperate Senator negotiating the best deal possible. Giamatti's last scene with Gosling is a work of art. The only thing missing is a confrontation between Giamatti and Hoffman. THAT alone would be worth the price of admission.You might be surprised that Clooney actually minimizes the political meanderings, though he does get in a few jabs at the Republicans. This is more character drama ... how far can your ideals and morals carry you. What is your breaking point? Where is the line between realist and idealist? Is it betrayal if you act for the right reason? The final shot of film is superb. Et tu, Brute.
Greetings again from the darkness. A brilliant and expertly made film that is excruciatingly painful to watch, yet impossible to look away. That would be my one line review. Of course, that line could be followed by a 10 page essay, to which I won't subject you. How to do justice to this extraordinary three hours of excess and debauchery? How to give due credit the craftsmanship of director Martin Scorcese? How to acknowledge the pure physicality and kinetic energy of Leonardo DiCaprio's performance? How to heap praise on a project so lacking in morality and decency? There are no easy answers to these four questions, but there is plenty to discuss.Let's be clear. This is a vulgar film telling the disgusting story of a crude and egotistical scam artist who defrauded many innocent people. Jordan Belfort's autobiography serves as the source material for the screenplay from Terrence Winter (The Sopranos, Boardwalk Empire). Leonardo DiCaprio (in his fifth collaboration with Martin Scorcese) portrays Belfort as the talented stock broker who soaks up lessons from both his mentor and the real world stock market crash of 1987. That Black Monday led him right into the world of penny stocks and huge commissions. Those commissions and his stunning sales skills take right into a world that rivals that of Caligula or Fellini's Satyricon.Sex. Drugs. Rock and Roll. Sorry, that's not enough for Belfort. He is also driven by money, greed, power and the need to take advantage of the weak. I lost count, but surely Belfort displays more than seven deadly sins. Everything is extreme. Nothing in moderation. Belfort is both smart and stupid. He is the worst of human nature, and when combined with his charisma, becomes very dangerous. Watching him give his invigorating and over-the-top pep talks to the team recalls the cult evangelists we have seen over the years. His religion is money and winning ... never accepting "no". His followers eat it up.While most of the movie is pedal to the metal, there are two exceptional scenes that really stood out. When a young, eager, new to Wall Street Belfort has lunch with his mentor (played by Matthew McConaughey), we sense him soaking up the lessons ... we see the wheels turning to a new way of thinking. McConaughey is in top form here. The other standout scene takes place aboard Belfort's yacht as he interacts with the FBI agent played by Kyle Chandler. This agent is the closest thing to a moral barometer the movie allows and this dance of dialogue and acting is pure cinematic magic.Jonah Hill as Belfort's business partner is his physical opposite, and possibly even less morally-centered than Belfort. He is also extremely funny in a demented way. Three very talented film directors have supporting roles. Rob Reiner (in a rare acting gig) plays Belfort's bombastic dad and firm accountant. Jon Favreau is the high priced attorney fighting off the SEC and FBI. Spike Jonze plays the boiler room manager who first schools Belfort on penny stocks, and sets the wheels in motion. There is also a very sexy, funny performance from Margot Robbie as Belfort's second wife.My words don't do justice to the manic existence and frenzied scenes of sex, profanity and drug use. The black comedy mixed in prevents this from being the bleak portrayal that it could have been, but don't underestimate the depths to which the characters will stoop to get what they want. This one makes a similarly themed American Hustle look like a Disney flick. Consider yourself warned ... and don't think you can just look away.
Greetings again from the darkness. Rare are the times that I find myself lacking words to express my opinion on a movie just watched. But writer/director Terrence Malick does not play fair. First of all, what director makes five films in 40 years? Who makes a film about CREATION, life, evolution, spirituality, death and existence? What director seems to thrive when no real story is needed to make his points? Which director can so mess with the viewer's head through visual artistry never before seen on screen? The answer to these questions, of course, is Terrence Malick. And I hold him responsible the fact that I remain in somewhat of a semi-conscious fog four days after watching his latest masterpiece.Any attempt to explain this film would be futile. It is so open to interpretation and quite a personal, intimate journey for any viewer who will free themselves for the experience. What I can tell you is that much of the film is focused on a typical family living in small town rural Texas in the early 1950's. Brad Pitt plays Mr. O'Brien, the stern disciplinarian father and husband to Jessica Chastain's much softer Mrs. O'Brien.Near the beginning of the film, we get Mrs. O'Brien as narrator explaining that when she was a child, the nuns informed that in life one must choose between Nature and Grace. Nature being the real time of real life, whereas Grace is the more spiritual approach. Clearly, Mr. O'Brien has chosen Nature, while his wife embodies Grace. Watching their three boys evolve in this household is quite a treat - and is done with so little dialogue, it's almost shocking to the senses.One of the many things that jumped out at me was the set and production design of Jack Fisk. Mr. Fisk is a frequent collaborator with Mr. Malick and is also the husband of Sissy Spacek, who starred in Malick's first film Badlands. Unlike many films, I did not have the feeling I was watching a film about the 50's. Instead, the look is directly IN the 50's ... slamming screen doors, tree houses, and family supper time! But don't think for a moment that this is a story about the O'Brien's and their sons. This family is merely Malick's vessel for showing the earthly connections between the universe and each of the particles within. If you think this sounds a bit pretentious, you should know that Mr. Malick graduated from Harvard with a philosophy degree, became a Rhodes Scholar at Oxford, and a professor at MIT. This is a thinking man and an artist.Actually I would describe the experience as viewing an art exhibit and listening to poetry. It really sweeps over and through you, and takes you on a trip of introspection. So many human emotions are touched - the need to be loved, appreciated and respected. We see the oldest O'Brien son later in life. Sean Penn plays him as a very successful middle aged adult who still struggles with the death of a brother and communication skills learned from his childhood. This is an odd sequence but provided to give balance to the flurry of emotions the younger boy survives.This was the 2011 Cannes Film Festival Palm d'Or winner and that means little if you don't open up as you walk into the theatre. It's a contemplative journey that you can either take part in or fight. My advice is to open up and let this beautiful impression of all life take your mind places it may have never been before.
Greetings again from the darkness. Thanks to the Cinemark Classic Series, seeing this one on the big screen became a summer highlight. Often rated as one of the all-time best, and easily one of the best from the western genre, the film was written (by Carl Foreman) as an allegory to Hollywood blacklisting brought on by Sen. McCarthy's red-baiting crusade. The cowardly townspeople represent those who wouldn't stand up against the wild and often false accusations.The film won four Oscars, including Gary Cooper as Marshal Will Kane. The character is often compared to Atticus Finch from To Kill a Mockingbird. Both are shining examples of men doing the right thing in very difficult circumstances. It's been noted that Gary Cooper's constant look of pain during the film might not have been excellent acting after all. He reportedly was suffering from a bleeding ulcer and a bad back during filming.Originally filmed in "real" time with the numerous clock shots to prove it, the film was re-edited prior to release, nullifying the effect. Tex Ritter (John's father) version of "High Noon (Do Not Forsake Me)" is heard throughout, and will stick in your head for some time after viewing. This was the first major motion picture for both Grace Kelly and Lee Van Cleef. Ms. Kelly plays Kane's new bride, who doesn't understand his need to stay and face Frank Miller. Mr. Van Cleef flashed his beady eyes here and went on to have a long career as a top notch villain.The film is directed by Fred Zinnemann who also directed From Here to Eternity, Oklahoma!, and A Man for All Seasons. Zinnemann lost the Oscar to John Ford, and film lost to The Greatest Story Ever Told. It's considered one of the greatest Oscar upsets in history. Floyd Crosby was the cinematographer ... he is the father of singer David Crosby (Crosby, Stills, Nash and Young).Other supporting work is courtesy of Thomas Mitchell (Uncle Billy from It's a Wonderful Life), Katy Jurado (excellent as Helen Ramirez), Lon Chaney, Jr, Harry Morgan (later Col Potter in MASH), and Sheb Wooley (later known for singing "The Purple People Eater"), and of course, Lloyd Bridges as Harvey, Kane's ambitious deputy (and father to Beau and Jeff).Cooper is at his most dominant in this role and it's difficult to believe that just about every other Hollywood leading man of the time was offered the role prior to him. Cooper's Will Kane is the epitome of the strong, silent type ... and a real stand-up guy.
Greetings again from the darkness. Something we rarely see these days is an attempt at the screwball comedy that made Cary Grant a mega-star. Disappointingly, TV director Bharat Nalluri doesn't have the chops or script to quite get this one over the hump, despite a terrific cast and authentic look to the film.What's missing is the crackling, fast-paced dialogue that made those films so wonderful. Certainly Frances McDormand as the title character and Amy Adams as her pet project for the day are up to the task ... they are just left hanging without a worthy script. This one is extremely simple and despite its shortcomings, is still cute and easily watchable. So much more could have been done with McDormand's character that we leave the theater feeling the void. I am definitely looking forward to Amy Adams' next two film projects (both with Meryl Streep). It is time she was pushed as an actress. I sense greatness.The supporting cast is excellent with Ciaran Hinds and rising star Lee Pace. The marvelous Shirley Henderson (Moaning Myrtle from the Harry Potter films) steals every one of her scenes and again, makes us long for what could have been.Cole Porter and Johnny Mercer music are terrific backdrops on the eve of German invasion and the night club scene is beautifully presented. While enjoyable enough to watch, in the end it is just another film that could have been much more.
Greetings again from the darkness. Odd fact-based story of one-time musical prodigy-now homeless man Nathaniel Ayers (Jamie Foxx) and his chance encounter turned friendship with LA Times writer Steve Lopez (Robert Downey, Jr.). The story is pretty tough to watch at times but director Joe Wright (Atonement) does a good job of adding enough Hollywood to prevent it from spinning too far off into mental illness and politics.RDJ and Mr. Foxx are both excellent in their presentation of challenging characters. The music is, of course, excellent (Mr. Ayers has a fascination with Beethoven) and we get a glimpse inside the LA symphony hall (designed by Frank Gehry).There were a few continuity issues and some of the scenes were a bit too fluffy for me, but this is such an amazing story that you can't help but find it interesting. First movie I can recall where a lead character has a run in with a urine container ... not once, but twice. And Neil Diamond has a couple of songs and photo, which just adds to the weirdness
Greetings again from the darkness. The much anticipated quasi-collaboration between Tarantino and Rodriguez delivers everything we could have hoped for. The "Double Feature" replete with shocking trailers for non-existent movie is almost as fun to watch as it probably was for the cinema bad boys to make. The best warning I can give is that some boys have toys like chemistry sets and toy trains. QT and RR have their movie cameras. This is a fantasy camp production for two lucky guys who get to live their dream in their own world.The first feature is the Rodriguez zombie flick. It is actually much better than expected and advertised. Rose McGowan is outstanding is the go-go dancer (not stripper - "there's a difference") who loses a leg in a most unfortunate manner. Her boyfriend, played by the up and coming Freddy Rodriguez, sweetly provides her a new leg - a machine gun that later morphs into a Gatling gun. How's a guy supposed to compete with that? Sure the story is a bit weak, but who really cares? The action is non-stop and the mandatory gross out stuff is in abundance from the likes of Josh Brolin, Jeff Fahey, Marly Shelton, Stacy Ferguson (Black-Eyed Peas), Naveen Andrews ("Lost") and Michael Biehn. I would never give away anything here but will say, it is the most fun one can have in a zombie flick! Second feature belongs to Tarantino and includes everything you would expect delivered in ways you could never expect! Kurt Russell, as "Stuntman Mike" plays the oddest bad boy in a muscle car that I have ever witnessed on screen. For extra enjoyment, remind yourself that this guy got his start in Disney films!! He has a knack for getting rid of obnoxious girls in the most violent of manners. The best filmed segment of the film is in the diner as four ladies loudly do the chick thing by yakking non-stop. The camera moves totally around the table getting views from every angle and occasionally catching Russell in the background. Brilliant. Real life stunt woman Zoe Bell is amazing in her role as a stunt woman who is always looking for that thrill in life ... this time in the form of a Dodge Challenger! The whole car chase sequence is unlike any we have seen before and QT adds a bit of humor and statement when the classic muscle cars go weaving in and out of traffic full of SUV's and 4 door sedans. Yesterday meets today ... and today looks pretty lame. The downside to this story is that Rosario Dawson is basically awful. Still not enough to take the edge or fun out of this Tarantino buffet of badass cinema.The faux-trailers are very well made and very funny by directors such as Eli Roth, Rob Zombie and Edgar Wright. Especially funny is Wright's "Don't". Interesting acting notes include double dipping roles (both films) for Rose McGowan, Marley Shelton, Michael Parks and Tarantino (who has extended screen time). Also Bruce Willis, Nicolas Cage and Danny Trejo make appearances, as does the great Sydney Poitier's daughter, Sydney Tamiia Poitier.Not in the classic film sense of "Pulp Fiction" or "Kill Bill", but hugely entertaining and funny. There are so many inside jokes here it may take 10 viewings to catch them all. One of the best is the "missing reel" announcement just as the sex scenes get started. All of the stuttering, skipping, poor editing and black outs really did happen back in the day. We forget just how lucky we are ... both for film quality and to experience the madness of Tarantino and Rodriguez.
Greetings again from the darkness. This is one of those little indie flicks that will probably get lost in the shuffle. Director and co-writer Yaron Zilberman is blessed with an outstanding cast and delivers a twist to the familiar life lessons and substitute family story lines.It is by no means a great movie, but there are some terrific and wonderful moments thanks mostly to some top notch acting. Philip Seymour Hoffman, Catherine Keener, Mark Ivanik and Christopher Walken make up a famed string quartet who are approaching their 25th year together. All heck breaks loose within this group that thrives on precision when the patriarch (Walken) is diagnosed with Parkinson's. This announcement is followed immediately by a battle of egos between the two violinists (Hoffman and Ivanek), a falling out between the married couple (Keener and Hoffman) when he has an affair, and a break in trust when Ivanek starts a relationship with the much younger daughter (Imogen Poots) of Keener and Hoffman.If this sounds like a dysfunctional family, that's a very accurate description. These four people are outstanding musicians who made the decision to forgo solo careers and build something even better with the quartet. It's a life lesson that four people working in harmony are much stronger than any one piece. The music is what drives these four despite their other issues. Watching them battle through the challenges is quite similar to any film based on familial shenanigans.The chamber music is a joy to listen to, though the plot devices are often quite familiar and predictable. Christopher Walken has a couple of scenes that are alone worth the price of admission. Ivanek expertly captures the ego-maniacal first violinist, and Keener is perfectly cast as the one who can't help but wonder how her life turned out so. Mr. Hoffman may be up for an Oscar thanks to his performance in The Master, but it's these "small" roles which I find so complimentary of his talent.Kind of off topic, there is a scene featuring Wallace Shawn drinking wine as he converses with Walken. Wallace Shawn drinking wine will forever remind me of The Princess Bride and the lesson of going up against a Sicilian when death is involved! To summarize, the individual pieces here are much stronger than the overall film ... just the opposite of the quartet.
Greetings again from the darkness. If anyone tells you this film is a bit of a downer, never trust them again. It may be the bleakest, most dismal film I have ever seen (and that's saying a lot!). A bit of downer does not do it justice. Still, I couldn't take my eyes off the screen. Javier Bardem is captivating and truly encompasses the character of Uxbal - a father of two, who has a connection to the dead, and is headed there himself (quickly).Already I am sure many are turned off by the subject matter and the fact that it's not an inspirational, feel-good movie. I would make the point that despite the despair, it does show the journey of a man seeking redemption and trying with everything he has to do right by his kids.Director Alejandro Gonzalez Inarritu is a master filmmaker as evidenced by his work in "21 Grams" and "Babel". He gives us a real feel for the grungy and claustrophobic world that these people inhabit. We absolutely feel their pain and resolve and desperation and panic. We feel it for the entire 2 and a half hours running time.If you can take the filmed depression, the pay off is watching Bardem work. I have maintained that his best work was in "The Sea Inside", but as much as it pains me to agree with Julia Roberts, his performance here is somehow better. It's no wonder why he felt the need to escape with "Eat Pray Love" after filming this one. It should be noted that Bardem is the first ever Lead Actor nominee for a full Spanish speaking role.
Greetings again from the darkness. Really no need to offer commentary on the story. If you have seen the preview (how could you have missed it?), you know it's a major chick flick with a long list of Hollywood celebrities who come together and display the trials and tribulations that we have come to celebrate as Valentine's Day - surely a concoction of greeting card companies, florists and confectioneries.For most of the movie, one song kept popping in my head - Marilyn Manson's "The Beautiful People". I have never seen so many beautiful people in one film. As you have noticed, the word "actor" has purposefully been avoided - celebrities and beautiful people are a more accurate description of what director Garry Marshall has delivered.Thankfully, he tossed in Hector Elizonda, Shirley Maclaine and George Lopez or the movie would have done for plastic surgery what "Urban Cowboy" did for C&W dancing. On top of the beauty, we are subjected to an endless stream of downright SKINNY people! Everyone has noticed Taylor Swift is rail thin, but she doesn't even stand out here. Jessica Biel, who once had a real-life body, looks cadaverous. Even her character exists on candy and treadmills. Throw in Ashton Kutcher, Topher Grace, Jennifer Garner and Jessica Alba, and one can make the argument that the cast was paid for by the lack of necessity for an on-set lunch buffet.Look, I realize this is just a chick flick comedy that is designed to poke a bit of fun at our need to love and be loved ... or rather just not be alone. But a touch of reality could have helped. Raise your hand if you believe Julia Roberts might be miscast as the soldier returning home on leave from the front lines of war. Or that a brilliant doctor (Patrick Dempsey) might be a little more careful in covering his tracks of indiscretion? Or that Anne Hathaway couldn't find a slightly more rewarding way to earn a living than her "phone entertainer" job?Couldn't help but notice the "Pretty Woman" connections with Garry Marshall, Julia Roberts, Hector Elizando and Larry Miller. Ms. Roberts even has a funny little jab over the closing credits. Some attempt was made to interconnect the multiple story lines and I do appreciate the struggle to show intimacy in the mess of Los Angeles ... just too many obvious skits and stereotypes to make this anything more than a half-hearted effort by all involved.
Greetings again from the darkness. This one tricked me a bit. After viewing the preview, I really expect a light-hearted message comedy where Sally Hawkins' eternal optimism would change the world. Instead, we see that, while it is admirable to bring a smile to others, the only thing we can really control is our own emotions.After working together on "Vera Drake" and "All or Nothing", director Mike Leigh finally broke down and just wrote a film to capture the talents of Sally Hawkins, seen here as Poppy. As an example, her only comment when she discovers her bike has been stolen ... "I didn't even get to say goodbye.". She is charming, upbeat and at times quite annoying actually. She certainly hits a nerve on her driving instructor, played all out by Eddie Marsan. Mostly, however, we witness Poppy's good heart and constant brightness in, what others see as, a bleak world.My favorite scenes are at her Flamenco lessons as the instructor, played by to the fireball extreme by Karina Fernandez. There is a lot going on with the emotional instructor and her pupils ... and it's only dancing on the surface! Overall, Mr. Leigh has created quite the commentary on optimistic people and how so many are beyond salvation (check out the bookstore clerk in the earliest scene). As Poppy says ... that shouldn't stop us from trying!
Greetings again from the darkness. It's a musical, but not a typical musical. It's a fairy tale, but not a typical fairy tale. It's funny, but not a typical comedy. It's a bit frightening, but not a typical monster film. It's filled with lessons of morality and responsibility, but certainly not a typical parable. In fact, there is nothing typical about director Rob Marshall's (Oscar winner for Chicago) screen adaptation of the smash Broadway hit from Stephen Sondheim and James Lupine.The story revolves around 4 classic Fairy Tales: Little Red Riding Hood, Jack and the Beanstalk, Rapunzel, and Cinderella, in a style much more similar in tone to the edgy Brothers Grimm, than the cuddly Walt Disney traditionals. These four are intertwined with the saga of a baker (James Cordon) and his wife (Emily Blunt) who discover they have been unable to have children due to a long ago spell cast by a wicked witch (Meryl Streep). With a secret agenda, the witch offers the couple a way to break the spell, and that's what ties-in the four tales and provides a reason for adventure and song.Filmed seamlessly between an elaborate sound stage and a couple of park locations, the film has a dark and eerie feel to it that's probably too intense for younger children. And much of the dialogue and lyrics is aimed directly at adults and will be a blur to kids. Additionally, in typical Sondheim fashion, the songs aren't catchy and melodic in the manner of most movie musicals  instead the lyrics propel the story and help shape the characters. Oh, and by the way, don't expect any fancy dance sequences  this is pretty serious stuff with plenty of angst amongst the characters.Ms. Streep is extraordinary as the witch (both nasty and beautiful) and does a terrific job with her three main songs. She is especially fun in her entrances and exits, and while wearing the most impactful of all the costumes. Emily Blunt also handles her vocals very well and offers up some of the film's most witty dialogue. Chris Pine (as the Prince) is flat out hilarious, and with a twinkle in his eye, spouts lines such as "I was raised to be charming, not sincere". He also shares the screen with Billy Magnussen (playing the younger brother) in the most audacious of the musical numbers, "Agony". As Cinderella, Anna Kendrick once again proves she is an exceptionally talented singer, and James Cordon anchors the production as the nice guy village baker we are rooting for.In supporting roles, we have a devilish Johnny Depp whose screen time as the Big Bad Wolf is quite limited, and a perfectly cast Christine Baranski as the evil step-mother in cahoots with her non-Cinderella daughters played by Lucy Punch and Tammy Blanchard. Lilla Crawford is Little Red Riding Hood, and her young age snuffs out much of the innuendo that the Wolf scenes should have provided, and takes the edge off the song "I Know Things Now". Daniel Huddlestone is an energetic Jack, and dependable Tracey Ullman plays his frustrated mom. MacKenzie Mauzy captures the awakening of Rapunzel, while Frances de la Tour frightens everyone involved as the agitated (for good reason) Lady Giant.Unconventional is the best description of this production, and there is a group of viewers who will be totally captivated by it, while a much larger group will probably find it too dark and bleak, and lacking the easy charm we have come to expect from movie musicals. However, for those of us in the first group, we will be totally enchanted by the characters, story lines, wry humor, costumes, sets, and songs.
Greetings again from the darkness. This one sure looks and feels like masterpiece film-making. It has a tremendous cast, renowned screenwriter (Eric Roth), passionate director (Robert DeNiro) and a near fool-proof subject ... the birth of the Central Intelligence Agency. I believe these are the reasons many are rating the film so highly. As an avid movie goer, I can usually connect with at least one character in a film, especially a THREE HOUR one! Not here, this film treats the viewer unfairly. It requires us to think and pay attention and think some more. For what? There is no payoff. All we get is an empty story, numerous time frame jumps and a bunch of characters who all seem to be playing a part in a school play.What prevents it from being totally ridiculous is the professional approach the cast takes. Only a couple of scenes are over the top, while most are actually so subtle that I found myself wanting to yell at the screen. Matt Damon is near robotic in his performance and when they show him walking, I couldn't help but think of 'Hands' in "Boston Legal". And what's with Angelina? Was she supposed to be 20 or 40? Couldn't tell most of the time. This film has more whispering than any Junior High history class and William Hurt takes mumbling to a whole new level. The manner in which Alec Baldwin's character just kind of appears from time to time made me think it was some SNL skit and what kind of casting puts Billy Crudup as a Brit? Aren't there sufficient working British actors to play this simple role? The rest of the cast is rounded out by DeNiro (appearing only a couple of times), Michael Gambon, Timothy Hutton, John Turturro and one all too brief scene with a very Italian Joe Pesci.Sadly, all of this is not enough to save what could have been a mesmerizing tale of espionage and intrigue. It was cool to have legitimate news reels of Castro and JFK, but the film really sagged during the "movie" parts. Very disappointing.
Greetings again from the darkness. This film is one of those goldmines for discussion and debate. Each successive scene begs the viewer to judge the actions of those involved, but even beyond that, the movie is screaming to be picked apart by those of us prone to do so. It's actually the best of both worlds for film lovers ... it challenges us on a personal and moral basis, and also as one who analyzes scripts, acting choices, and filmmaking techniques.Having seen the trailer, I was very much aware of the foundation of the film ... two young girls are kidnapped and, frustrated with the lack of progress by the police, one of the dads seeks his own form of justice. So I couldn't help but cringe with the obvious metaphor opening scene where Hugh Jackman's character (Keller Dover) experiences one of those life-bonding moments with his teenage son Ralph (played by Dylan Minnette). Once past that, the set-up is expertly handled ... two middle class families sharing friendship and Thanksgiving dinner. Keller and his wife Holly (Maria Bello) have two kids: Dylan and their young daughter Anna (Erin Gerasimokovich). Their neighborhood friends Franklin and Nancy are played by Terrence Howard and Viola Davis, who have a teenage daughter Eliza (Zoe Borde) and young daughter Joy (Kyla Drew Simmons). Perfect families and perfect friends shattered by a horrific ordeal when the young girls go missing. The main suspect is a simplistic man-child who drives a ratty RV. Alex Jones is played by Paul Dano in the most uncompromising manner possible.Enter Detective Loki (played by Jake Gyllenhaal). Loki is an odd bird who never lets a case go unsolved. His quirky personality and facial ticks and buttoned-up shirt provide us with enough backstory that we understand his dogged pursuit and need to work alone. As the story unfolds, we are overwhelmed with an abundance of terrific story lines. In fact, there are so many that we feel downright cheated at all the deadends and dropped-cold sub-plots.As a father, I certainly could relate to Keller's relentless, stop-at-nothing pursuit of the first and only lead. Exactly where would I draw the line for my own actions? I can't answer that other than to say that I totally understood his approach. That's not to say I condone such actions, only that I fully empathize. Holly's reaction to the ordeal is to curl up in bed with meds. That too is understandable. Loki's frustration with his own department and the false leads is also understandable. So while each character's actions make sense, the viewer's frustration is palpable, not just because of these things, but in the mis-use of such fine actors as Mr. Howard, Ms. Davis, and Ms. Leo. Jackman, Gyllenhaal and Dano dominate through much different methods, yet we viewers constantly find ourselves wanting to know more about the teenage kids, the priest played by Len Cariou, and of course, the Howard and Davis characters.The film's message is not vague. It's quite clear, even overly obvious. Keller is a survivalist ... the kind of guy who is prepared for any disaster. No matter how prepared one is, the loss of a child will test your morals, faith and inner-strength. What would you do? How far would you go? Is there a line you won't cross to protect your family? Those questions are much simpler until real life forces you to answer.One thing you will quickly notice is just how stunningly beautiful this film is. The credits provide the answer in Director of Cinematographer Roger Deakins, probably the best in the business. French-Canadian Director Denis Villenueve gave us the exceptional Incendies, and while this one has plenty to offer, I believe some fine-tuning with writer Aaron Guzikowski (Contraband) could have elevated this one to Oscar worthy material. So take your friends and be prepared for post-movie discussion. Everyone will have their own thoughts and opinions. That doesn't make this a great movie, but it serves the purpose of getting us to question our faith and beliefs.
Greetings again from the darkness. In the interest of full disclosure, I was not fortunate enough to have seen the Broadway version and I know the stage aficionados are not necessarily pleased with the screen version. Judging it strictly as a film musical, I will say it had me laughing out loud, tapping my toes, singing along (in my head) and most importantly ... fully engaged in the story. This is pure entertainment that most adults will really get a kick out of it.The best place to begin is with the incomparable Meryl Streep. Besides being the best actor and singer in the film, she just knows when to push it and when to let the others have their moment. She is a marvel to behold.The story is simple (and inherently funny) ... 20 yr old daughter reads mom's diary and discovers she has 3 possible fathers and, without her mother's knowledge, invites all 3 to her wedding in hopes of solving the mystery. The three forced-amigos are all well played by Pierce Brosnan, Colin Firth and Stellan Skarsgard (very much against his type!). None can sing very well, though Brosnan gives it his all ... twice!.To balance the influx of men, we are also treated to Streep's two best friends in brilliant performances by Christine Baranski and Julie Walters. Sure, you can accuse both of over-acting, by I contend the entertainment value is even higher thanks to their willingness to push the envelope.Streep's daughter is played with extreme bright eyes by Amanda Seyfried, who is just terrific whether singing on the beach or scheming against her unknowing mom. Seyfried's fiancé is played by up and comer Dominic Cooper.Of course, the ABBA music dominates ... it is after all a full fledged MUSICAL. Don't miss Bjorn Ulraeus as the beach piano player! The sing-along songs are just a blast in this setting. If you go in expecting to have fun, you too will find yourself dancing in your seats and humming "Take A Chance on Me", "Dancing Queen" or about 6 others.
Greetings again from the darkness. Writer/Director Billy Ray was the creative force behind "Shattered Glass" a few years ago and obviously is drawn to true stories of human deception. Here he takes on one of our biggest fears ... a federal agent who sells out his own country. Normally we only get these type of scenarios in LeCarre novels, but the story of FBI agent Robert Hanssen is a real life nightmare.Perfect casting has Chris Cooper as the very odd Hanssen who has nearly 25 years with the bureau, many of which have been spent selling off national secrets to the Soviet Union. In an almost unbelievable stroke of luck, Hanssen was put in charge of finding the mole ... yes, his job was to find himself!! Cooper is very strong here as the ego-maniacal tortured soul who pulls off his deceit with a disarming devotion to religion, the bureau and blending. He appears to be just another working stiff pulling in a paycheck.Most of the supporting staff is solid. Laura Linney is slightly miscast as the agent in charge of bringing Hanssen down. Dennis Haysbert is her boss. Gary Cole plays it straight here, and Kathleen Quinlan (as Hanssen's wife) and Bruce Davison (as Eric O'Neill's dad) have brief but effective turns. Caroline Dhavernas is an actress I am not familiar with, but her performance here has me intrigued.The weak link in the film is Ryan Phillipe, who just doesn't possess the acting chops to pull off the pivotal role of Eric O'Neill - the agent wannabe who gets thrust into the crucial position of bringing Hanssen down. It is just implausible to believe Phillipe could ever pass the FBI entrance exam, much less outsmart the guy who outsmarted the entire bureau for two decades. Despite the weakness, the story is strong enough to overcome this and maintain the quasi-thriller feel. This is quite an accomplishment for a film when all the viewers know how it will end!! The real life Hanssen is spending life in prison and O'Neill immediately resigned from the bureau for the "normal" life of a Washington attorney. Part spy thriller, part history lesson, part psychoanalysis, "Breach" is very enjoyable despite the fact that we are provided no real answers as to WHY this man acted as he did. We are only led to believe that it wasn't the money, but instead the ego that drove his madness.
Greetings again from the darkness. Was reticent to see this one thinking I might never want to eat again. Much of what is in the film is not really new, but the entire segment on corn was really an eye opener.No real surprise that a few giant companies, with governmental subsidies, control our entire food market ... and that it run like a giant factory and not Grandpa's farm. Still it is painful to watch what the workers and animals and farmers are subjected to.The two messages we are left with - push the government for better controls and power by the FDA and USDA, and eat more organic food ... even if it is more expensive.
Greetings again from the darkness. Director Mira Nair is so very adept at capturing the emotions within Indian culture. Her stout resume includes "Monsoon Wedding", "Mississippi Masala" and "Salaam Bombay". Somehow "The Namesake" may be her best work yet. Certainly it is her most detailed and intimate.The touching and very moving story revolves around an Indian couple who live in NYC after marriage in India. As they raise their kids and come to grips with the American way, the wisdom of both parents is inspiring to behold. Irfan Khan plays the dad, Ashoke, and the beautiful Tabu plays Ashima, the mother. Both performances are remarkable and textured and subtle and provide the soul of the film.Most of the story involves their son, Gogol, played by Kal Penn in his best performance to date. Born and raised in the U.S., it takes awhile for him to embrace his heritage and really appreciate his remarkable parents. Touching, sincere moments occur as life just happens to strengthen the bonds within the family.Sadly, the film will probably not be seen by a wide American audience, but for those who make the effort, the reward is an excellent, intelligent film by a truly expert filmmaker.
Greetings again from the darkness. There have been many films with troubled communities: "The Village", "Wicker Man", "Children of the Corn", and "Stepford Wives" to name a few. None of these compare to the pre-World War I rural German village that director Michael Haneke plops us into.Haneke is the master of keeping the viewer guessing and never really allowing us a clean solution to the mysteries he presents. Did you figure out what motivated the cruelty from the boys in "Funny Games"? Did you ever really figure out who or why the family was being videotaped in "Cache"? The same holds true here.The story is told by the voice-over from the school teacher many years later. We only see the village and the residents as "things" happen - through the recollections of the teacher. Haneke presents many suspects, but no answers to all of the "accidents" and foul play that occurs. We witness only the aftermath and the distrust of the close community.The film is up for Best Foreign Film and the stark, bleak, black & white look will put you on edge and create a feeling of discomfort, even in the somewhat happiest moments of the film. No doubt it will frustrate those who need a clean wrap-up, but those who enjoy discussion and debate will need an extra cup of coffee afterward to go through all the what-ifs.
Greetings again from the darkness. Trying to come up with the best way to describe this one. It seems to be billed as a comedy, but it's very dark and only funny in a few places. The drama is pretty weak at times and uncomfortable all of the time. The comedy really stems from the mano y mano of John C Riley and Jonah Hill. Marisa Tomei is a not so innocent bystander.If you have seen the preview, you know the basic story. John C Riley is a bit of a socially inept oaf who gets dragged to a party and makes a fool of himself. Marisa Tomei views him as something of a lost puppy and takes him under her wing. The big reveal occurs when Tomei's grown son (Hill) shows up at an inopportune time. Yes, he lives with her and that have a very unique and close relationship.Brothers Jay and Mark Duplass are known as part of the mumblecore movement - they subscribe to the less rehearsal and script school of film-making. Luckily for them, Hill and Riley take to this beautifully. Their scenes together are very good at creating an inner turmoil and utter frustration. Luckily for the audience, Riley's character has two scenes where he can unleash the lines that the viewers are all thinking! It makes for a nice release of tension.Hill creates Cyrus as the epitome of a "sneaky little devil". OK, he's not so little, but the rest fits. His acts of subversion are well thought out and pure acts of passive aggressiveness. These three characters make for quite the odd little group, but there is surely some insight into single parenthood, loneliness and over-protective parenting. Don't expect a slapstick comedy in the Judd Apatow mold ... this one is a bit creepy and dark.
Greetings again from the darkness. Writer/director Kirk Jones just needs to work a little more frequently. His first two projects were the fascinating Waking Ned Devine and the deeper than expected Nanny McPhee. The guy has some real talent and unique insight. He is also wise enough to cast Robert Deniro and then bring out his best performance in years.Sure, there are some similarities to Nicholson's wonderful turn in About Schmidt, but contrary to the trailers, this one is no light-hearted holiday fluff. There are deep emotions and more real-life family baggage than most will care to admit (translated, there were quite a few sniffles in the theatre).Deniro's kids are scattered about leading their own lives after a childhood of pressure, demands and expectations. The differences in how each have handled it is very interesting. Drew Barrymore wants very much to be the daddy's girl, while Kate Beckinsale is the corporate type-A who just can't manage her family. The always excellent Sam Rockwell is the music prodigy enjoying his stress-free live as a symphonic percussionist (instead of a conductor). The youngest is a troubling story line that ends up tying everything together for the Deniro character, as well as the family.Aside from the mostly atrocious music, this one is an emotional tug-fest that will stimulate a bit of self-analysis from all parents.
Greetings again from the darkness. Director Todd Haynes won me over with his indie hit "Far From Heaven". Here he blows me away with his avant-garde Dylan inspired web of song and real-life influenced vignettes held together by six different aspects of the legend, who, as per the title, is not actually present.The six spirits of Dylan are played by Ben Whishaw (Arthur Rimbaud influence), Christian Bale (as he converts to Christianity), Marcus Carl Franklin (as a young bluesman using the name of the legendary Woody Guthrie) Richard Gere (as western recluse modeled on the legend of Billy the Kid), Heath Ledger (as an actor from the mod 60's era), and the most stunning performance of all, Cate Blanchett, in an all-out spot-on impersonation of Mr. Dylan.The stories are not told chronologically, instead Mr. Haynes opts to mix 'em up and toss them at us as if they were pieces of a puzzle to assemble, or better yet, the lyrics to a Dylan song! Additionally, we get clips of real life, in fact much of the Christian Bale segment is done documentary style. We gets bits of MLK, JFK, LBJ and the Black Panthers with Hewey Newton and Bobby Seale. That's in addition to the Beatles, Allen Ginsburg and Coco, a nod to Edie Sedgewick (played well by Michelle Williams).In the Heath Ledger story, we are presented with his wife Claire, who apparently is a mixture of Dylan women and lyrics, complete with painful relationship goodies. Claire is played perfectly by Charlotte Gainsbourg as she shows us how even those closest to him, never really know him. Bruce Greenwood has a couple of roles as a very persistent British interviewer and as old man Garrett (as in Pat) in the Gere story. One of the coolest parts is seeing the great Richie Havens pick his guitar on the porch in the Woody Guthrie story.This is just an amazing blend of eras and personalities and super-creativity from all involved. I was mesmerized and engaged as I tried to pick out real quotes, real clothes, real moments and those that were based on lyrics and myths (Pete Seeger axing the cable in Newport).I worry that this won't find the audience it deserves. One need not be a Dylan freak to "get" this film. You just have to love multi-layered story telling and some of the most influential music of the modern era. This is wonderful movie making and pure joy to behold.
Greetings again from the darkness. "Re-animator" director Stuart Gordon does very dark comedy, while mixing in a good dose of squeamishness ... offering up a bit of revenge for dessert. Based on the truly unbelievable events in Ft Worth, we are treated to a series of guilty pleasures in a most bizarre event.Mena Suvari ("American Beauty") finally breaks out of the boring eye candy roles and really gets to drive forward here. Veteran Stephen Rea has the perfect hang-dog, droopy look for a down-on-his-luck, destitute guy just trying to get a break in life.Suvari's drug dealing boyfriend is played with extra mustard by Russell Hornsby. His over the top delivery often delivers just the chuckles we need during the high stress moments.Look for a cameo by the director ... he is carrying two bags of groceries at a most opportune time. Congrats to the this team for delivering a much better ending than real life afforded.
Greetings again from the darkness. I saw two films here. One was spellbinding, fascinating and enlightening and featured a top-notch performance from Frank Langella. The "other" film was anytime Lauren Ambrose ("Six Feet Under") appeared on screen. Every time she opened her mouth, I felt myself deflate. Not only is she awkward to look at, but this part was poorly written and horribly acted. Langella was in an Oscar worthy film, while Ambrose was in a weak Lifetime flick.Let's concentrate on the good stuff. Langella is Leonard Schiller, an aging novelist, who time not only has forgotten, but really never really knew in the first place. A grad student shows up under the premise of resurrecting his career through her thesis. One dose of reality later, they are spending enormous amounts of time talking about his life and writing. Langella's performance is so textured and subtle that we can feel his pain while recollecting and his anxiety while (almost) touching Ambrose (the grad student) for the first time.This is director Andrew Wagner's first real film and he displays quite a knack for filming faces and allowing the pace of the film to mirror the reserved, simmering nature of Langella's character. Based on a novel by Brian Morton, the story focuses on a writer's desperation to finish his last novel but also on an aging man's struggle with a body that is continually letting him down ... at times to the point of humiliation.Lili Taylor plays Langella's well meaning, but confused daughter who reconnects with an ex-lover played very well by Adrian Lester ("Primary Colors"). The sub-plots are a nice addition to the story and provide contrast to the reserved demeanor of Langella's character.I have no idea how this film will ever find an audience, but those who love intricate character studies will be mesmerized by the Langella side of the film. Sadly, you will just have to fight through the whole grad student role ... think of it as the obnoxious person at an otherwise great party. Last note - the score is a nice compliment to the film and in lesser hands, could have been a distraction. Nicely done.
Greetings again from the darkness. Every so often there's a movie that just defies description and leaves me at a loss for analysis. Initially I thought maybe I could come up with a comparison, but that has proved futile. It also falls short to imagine if David Lynch, John Waters and the Coen Brothers collaborated on a film. And then it hit me that really the most likely legacy for this movie is as a midnight movie favorite. A cult film if you will. It has the twisted humor and borderline caricature characters and enough wild scenes and bizarre lines of dialogue, that I believe the midnight crowd will embrace it wholeheartedly.The first surprise is that it's directed by 76 year old William Friedkin, who is best known for his 1970's classics The Exorcist and The French Connection. He even throws in a bit of a chase scene here just to remind of us of his timeless scene from the latter. The story is from playwright Tracy Letts who won a Pulitzer for August: Osage County. Mr. Letts took the inspiration of the story from a real cop in Florida, moved the setting to Texas for obvious reasons and then filmed in Louisiana for economical ones.The next surprise is Matthew McConaughey, who has made a career of playing Him-bo's in farcical rom-coms that seem only to exist so he can be filmed without a shirt. Here, he plays the titular Killer Joe Cooper as a fastidious, meticulous detective who runs a murder-for-hire "business on the side". Killer Joe has a couple of rules and demands that the details be just right before he agrees to a job. But then he bends his rules when he meets Dottie (Juno Temple), the virginal sister of Chris (Emile Hirsch) and daughter of Ansel (Thomas Haden Church). She becomes the retainer when father and son can't come up with actual money for the job.The best way to describe these people, including and especially Ansel's second wife Sharla (Gena Gershon), is they are the epitome of trailer-park hicks who are not merely dysfunctional as a family, but even moreso as human beings. They barely have money to get by in life, but it's spent on beer, cigarettes, fast food and horse racing. When a small drug deal goes bad, Chris (the scheming son) comes up with the idea of killing his mother (Ansel's ex) to collect the insurance money. A touch of Double Indemnity thrown down by the Beverly Hillbillies.So hustler son and simpleton dad hire Killer Joe for the job. Think of the plan from Blood Simple, now imagine it's carried out by the cast of Dumb and Dumber. Things go awry when Joe meets Dottie. It brings out a side of him hidden by his smooth vocals and starched black exterior. A side best compared to the sadistic nature of Dennis Hopper in Blue Velvet.No more details need be provided, just know that the story and the people are twisted and demented, and the violence and sexuality are the type that make a film tough to watch at times. That level of discomfort is assuaged by the laugh out loud moments offered by the dialogue, but merely leaves our brains desperately gasping for coherence.Clarence Carter's "Strokin'" is a fitting ending to the film, and be warned that while I will never view canned pumpkin the same again, that pales in comparison to what Gena Gershon must think of when someone offers her a piece of fried chicken. (http://moviereviewsfromthedark.wordpress.com/)
Greetings again from the darkness. Based on P.D. James' novel, stud-director Alfonso Cuaron (Y tu mama tambien, last Harry Potter movie) delivers a stunningly bleak and intense version of the future and the human fight for survival.If you have seen the preview or read the book, you know the premise. Claire-Hope Ashitey plays Kee, the first woman to get pregnant in almost two decades. With non-stop warring between multiple factions (that we never quite understand), a smaller though equally intense battle is on to save and control Kee's new baby. Getting involved with the mission are Julianne Moore, Clive Owen, Michael Caine and Chiwetel Ejiofor. Owen and Moore are former spouses who lost their kid and Ejiofor has ulterior motives.Caine is a hoot as Owen's friend and guru and Owen himself probably offers up his best film performance to date. Make no mistake, this is a bleak and extremely intense chase movie. Mother-to-be Kee is a bit "wicked", but we can't help but root for her to make it through to the good guys ... the mysterious "Human Project". Yes, I know all of this sounds a bit ridiculous, but it is such a well crafted movie and story that it somehow not only works, but sucks you in. Also take note of the excellent use of current events and music to make points and counterpoints regarding political issues. Kinda cool.
Greetings again from the darkness. What I will give this one credit for is being a comedy that is not profanity riddled or consumed with bodily function humor (except for the tummy rumblings in the air vent). Mostly though it suffers the same plight as most comedies ... it's just not very funny.Now there are some funny moments and it is really a pleasure to see a very NICE character in the lead, but just not enough laughs to keep the audiences coming back. Kevin James stars (and helped write) here as Paul Blart, who ended up as a mall cap because he couldn't control his blood sugar levels, and passed out during the state trooper camp. The bit here is that he takes his mall job very seriously and to no one's surprise, is a loser in love.I found his initial physical attraction to kiosk salesperson Jayman Mays (Epic Movie) a bit ironic ... since there are so many jokes about James' weight. I can only assume that Mays' performance is so over the top bad because that's what director Steve Carr (Daddy Day Care) takes has humor. Better support work was delivered by Keir O'Donnell (very funny in Wedding Crashers), Bobby Cannavale and the very classy Shirley Knight as James' mom.Kevin James is talented and he likes to compare himself to Jackie Gleason, Chris Farley and John Belushi - other comedy "heavy weights". After Mall Cop, Hitch, and Chuck and Larry, he is still searching for just the right movie vehicle to compliment his TV success on King of Queens.
Greetings again from the darkness. This is the third installment of the series that began 10 years ago with "Meet the Parents". The first was a very fine, creative adult comedy with plenty of laughs. The second film introduced Dustin Hoffman and Barbra Streisand as parents of Ben Stiller's character. That film was a pretty significant step backwards from the first. The comedy became much more risqué, yet less funny.Now we have the third and hopefully final installment ... although, the last scene certainly sets the stage for another. Whatever chuckles there might have been were ruined by the over-played trailer. This has become the norm for American comedies. For some reason, movie producers believe the trailers should include 2 full minutes of funny scenes. Unfortunately, that just about uses up all the laughs from most comedies. This little focker is no exception.The star-studded cast is back - Robert DeNiro, Blythe Danner, Ben Stiller, Owen Wilson, Teri Polo, Barbara Streisand and Dustin Hoffman all reprise their roles. This time we are also treated to a spastic Jessica Alba, a quirky Harvey Keitel, a creepy Laura Dern ... and even Deepak Chopra makes an appearance. None of this is enough to lift this one to the point of decent comedy. Jay Roach directed the first two and turns the reins over to Paul Weitz (In Good Company, About a Boy). But even new directorial blood is not enough. A little more effort on the script was needed. Let's hope this is the end of the line for the Fockers.
Greetings again from the darkness. Dirty cops happen in real life sometimes and in the movies quite often. It can be an intriguing subject to explore ... psychological demons, ego, power-mongering, etc. Typically we see it presented as a cop torn between doing the right thing and feeling like he is owed something. Rarely do we see a cop portrayed as beyond hope ... so far gone morally that redemption is no longer even a possibility.Writer James Ellroy (LA Confidential) and director Oren Moverman (The Messenger) present to us Officer Dave Brown, known to his fellow cops (and even his daughter) as "Date Rape" Dave. The moniker stems from a vice incident where Brown dished out street justice to a serial date rapist. With no proof of his guilt, Brown remained on the force and his rogue manner has escalated to the point where he is a constant danger to himself and others. This guy has no moral filter for everyday living.Officer Brown is played with searing intensity by a Woody Harrelson you have never before seen. As loathsome a character as you will ever find, you cannot take your eyes off of him. He is hated by EVERYONE! Somehow he has daughters by two sisters and they all live together in a messed up commune where hate is the secret word of the day, every day. Most of the time no one speaks to Dave except to tell him to "get out". He spends his off hours drinking, smoking, doing drugs and having meaningless sex. Heck, that's just about how he spends his time while on duty as well.The supporting cast is phenomenal, though most aren't given but a scene or two. This includes Robin Wright (who nearly matches Dave in the tortured soul department), Sigourney Weaver, Anne Heche, Cynthia Nixon, Ned Beatty, Ben Foster, Ice Cube, and Steve Buscemi. The first hour feels like an Actor's Retreat as most every scene introduces another familiar face.Still, as terrific as Harrelson is, and as deep as the cast is, the film is just too one note and downbeat and hopeless to captivate a viewer. I also found some of Moverman's camera work to be quite distracting and the sex club scene was pure overkill. Downward spiral is much too neutral a term to describe this character and ultimately, that prevents the film from delivering any type of message.
Greetings again from the darkness. I left the theatre feeling utterly cheated and disappointed. How odd, considering the film had me mesmerized with the first 30-40 minutes.In Act I, we are introduced to Henry Poole (Luke Wilson) as he seems to spontaneously purchase a suburban home from perky Realtor Cheryl Hines by directing her to avoid negotiation and repairs. Wilson perfectly captures the lost spirit of a man ... we as viewers just don't yet know WHY. As he apparently tries to drink himself to death, his efforts are constantly interrupted by his well meaning neighbor, Esperanza, played exceedingly well by Adriana Barraza ("Babel") and a helpful grocery checker played by a marvelous Rachel Seiferth.Wilson's real misery begins when Esperanza notices the face of Christ in the stucco of Wilson's house. His desire to be left alone in solitude is ruined forever as it attracts neighbors, friends of neighbors and the Catholic Church ... notably a caring priest played well by George Lopez. When another neighbor (Radha Mitchell) and her disturbed young daughter get involved, all hell breaks loose (so to speak).It is at this point, that director Mark Pellington begins tossing in his music video interludes (Ben Harper, Bob Dylan, etc). Pellington's background is U2, INXSand Pearl Jam, and he was exceptional. However, we don't want or need the video moment to capture feeling in a film. We need strong writing, directing and acting. The second half of the film crumbles and we never buy the relationship between Wilson and Mitchell and the miracle cures come off as hokey.My disappointment stems from a terrific premise, a strong 30 minutes and then the balloon popping thanks to poor execution. Kudos to Wilson for a good performance, but sadly this one is destined to the video bin.
Greetings again from the darkness. Never got around to seeing this one in the theatre, mostly because an auditorium full of kids makes it genetically impossible for me to relax and concentrate on a movie. Very disappointed now that I didn't make the risky trek.Pixar, and director Andrew Stanton (Finding Nemo, A Bug's Life) have somehow taken another step forward in their remarkable animation process. This time we are treated to a warning about our consumptive lifestyle and, even better, a cute little love story.Finding inspiration from an unlikely source - Hello Dolly! VHS tape, Wall-E interprets holding hands as the ultimate level of connection and intimacy. Guess that's what 700 years of picking up trash will do to you. Seriously, the point that a simple gesture is the ultimate connection between two people was once the standard.Seeing the human race lounge around on hover-loungers while taking consumption to a whole new level was funny at first, but then very sad as you realize that's not such a big step from today's kids who eat fast food and play hours of video games, while playtime and physical activity is legislated out of schools.Staying away from the lecture podium, I will say that this is a remarkable animation film, and beyond that a very fine film period. I am confused how kids in the 7-12 age group connect with the two leads, because they just aren't very vocal ... they communicate through emotions (not an easy thing for robots!). But for everyone over 12, the message and delivery are stunning.
Greetings again from the darkness. The Brady Bunch, this isn't. It's also not the place to look for helpful parenting tips. In fact, the story revolves around Eva, a woman (Tilda Swinton) who apparently didn't want to have a child ... at least not at this time, and certainly not THIS child. If you have seen The Omen, you probably gave thanks that you didn't have a child like Damien. At least we knew Damien was the spawn of Satan. Eva's son Kevin, is instead a good old fashioned psychopath. One who has an inherent need to cause pain and misery for his mother.What a pair Eva and Kevin make. From day one, Kevin seems to sense his mother's lack of joy in parenthood. And he seems to have a genetic disposition of making her pay. As with many psychopaths, his above average intelligence makes him even more dangerous. He is tricky enough to keep his dad (John C Riley) clueless as to his nature, while causing much doubt in the dad's mind as to the stability of his wife.My favorite part is actually how director Lynne Ramsay structured the storytelling. It goes beyond non-linear and actually bounces throughout three key periods: Kevin as a baby/toddler, Kevin as a 6-8 year old (Jason Newell), and Kevin as a teenager (Ezra Miller). Each age is progressively more frightening and disenchanting, and the film begins with what is an undetermined catastrophe. This event is slowly revealed over the course of the movie, though we witness events leading up to it, as well as the resulting fallout.There are a few scenes where Eva is scrubbing the exterior of her house in an attempt to remove the red paint that was purposefully splattered. As a viewer, we understand that she has blood on her hands and she seems resigned to the fact that she is now a social outcast, even a pariah. We spend much of the movie in Eva's jumbled thoughts as she tries to piece together what has happened and why. Of course, there is no answer. The title explains what was missing all along. There was no communication and no willingness to confront the problem ... a psychopathic son. To say they all paid the price is an understatement.This film has a very limited audience, though my claim is that Ms. Swinton was quite deserving of an Oscar nomination. She wears defeat like a mask and lives in isolation better than most could. Even the music is offbeat and unusual in its use ... thanks to Radiohead's Jonny Greenwood. As filmmaking, this is high art. As storytelling, it's a bit muddled and quite a downer.
Greetings again from the darkness. Ahh, the lost art of horror films. I don't mean slasher films or gore-fests. I mean real horror films. The "Saw" series falls into gore-fest and its collaborators, director James Wan and writer Leigh Whannel, team up again for a more traditional horror film ... one designed to scare the viewer, rather than just gross out society.The film opens as Patrick Wilson and Rose Byrne move into a beautiful old house with their two young sons and infant daughter. By beautiful house, of course I mean terribly creepy with nooks and crannies, creaking floorboards, squeaky doors and an attic designed by Satan. The mom (Byrne) quickly realizes things aren't just right with this house, and as is customary in horror films, the dad finds some lame excuse to work late so the mom and kids can be haunted without him.There are some bits and pieces from classic horror films like "The Exorcist", "Poltergeist", "Amityville Horror" and, yes, "Saw" (but not the gory stuff). Remarkably, this film is rated PG-13 which means the filmmakers really have to tell a story ... and they do.The mom gets so desperate, she begs to move. They do. Guess what? Things aren't better. So mother-in-law Barbara Hershey says she knows someone. Next thing you know, two goof-balls that look like they should have their own cable show are in the house confirming something is definitely amiss. So they call in their boss. Unfortunately, the great Zelda Rubinstein (Poltergeist) passed away, so our expert is played by Lin Shayle. She does an effective job explaining astral projection and the next thing you know all hell has broken loose. Nice work lady.What makes the film work are the characters, the setting, the atmosphere and the really nice build-up of suspense and drama. Sure I think there were some details that could have been handled much better. For instance, the "other" brother looks like he is going to be a factor, but instead all of the attention goes to Ty Simpkins as Dalton. Simpkins was seen recently with Russell Crowe in "The Next 3 Days". Also, more of the backstory with Hershey and Wilson's childhood could have proved very interesting.Still, I will say if you are a fan of horror films, this one is worth seeing. If nothing else, you will absolutely love the opening credits with their haunted images and smoky font. It's a bit of a fun challenge to find the "image" in each of the opening sequences. Just make sure to finish your popcorn before the movie starts. That stuff is too expensive to be tossing across the aisle when you JUMP!!
Greetings again from the darkness. Most rated director Vadim Perelman's "House of Sand and Fog" higher than I, but I believe this is a much better and far more interesting film than his earlier effort. Based on the novel by Laura Kasischke, this is a bit of an eerie mind-bender that maintains an intoxicating look and feel.Evan Rachel Wood adds to her amazing list of strong performances with pure teen angst, but this time there is an additional depth not seen before. Uma Thurman plays the 15 year senior version of Ms. Woods character and delivers one of her best yet. Also of note is Eva Amurri as Wood's friend Maureen who plays a key role at decision time. Ms. Amurri is also Susan Sarandon's real life daughter.Can't give away much of this one, but I will say it is a joy to watch scene construction and the back and forth between present and past (or is it present and future) make for a multi-layered film that is engrossing in its delivery. Plus, the Zombies song makes a few appearances ... very cool.
Greetings again from the darkness. Tom Clancy's spy novels have produced four prior movies with three actors appearing as Jack Ryan: Alec Baldwin in The Hunt for Red October, Harrison Ford in Patriot Games and Clear and Present Danger, and Ben Affleck in The Sum of All Fears. While not based on a specific Clancy novel, this latest is a prequel clearly attempting to re-boot the franchise with Chris Pine as Ryan.Screenwriters Adam Cozad and David Koepp have come up with an elaborate backstory beginning with Ryan (Chris Pine) as a university student so impacted by the 9/11 events that he enlists in the Marines. His heroic actions in Afghanistan and impressive recovery from injuries draw the attention of Kevin Costner's character who recruits Ryan into the CIA. Ryan is established as a genius analyst quickly rising through the ranks at his Wall Street firm.That entire set up is well played and quite interesting. A character who is believable as both a Marine-trained combat expert and a world-class financial analyst is borderline superhero stuff, so a fine line must be walked. Oddly enough, the big mission that Ryan falls into is actually reminiscent of the Cold War James Bond films. Foiling a terrorist act and a Russian plot to crash the US economy may be a bit far-fetched, but not if you have Chris Pine and Kevin Costner on your side! The best scene ... and most worthy of an espionage thriller ... takes place at a fancy Russian restaurant. Dining together are Ryan, his fiancé (Keira Knightley) and the Russian bad guy (played by director Kenneth Branagh). It reminds somewhat of the poker game between Bond and Le Chiffre in Casino Royale. Every glance and every word have dual meanings, and they all know they are being played. Unfortunately, it's this terrific little dinner that begins the downward spiral for the movie. The action sequences are just plain silly, and the car chases, tricked out surveillance vans, and all-knowing computer programs are just too familiar and tiresome to be effective.Kenneth Branagh has had an extremely diverse directing career with films such as Frankenstein (1994), Hamlet (1996) and Thor (2011). It's understandable that he would jump at the chance to re-ignite this franchise, but this genre is filled with high level competition - especially Bond and Bourne. So while it's entertaining enough for a January action movie, it's not at the level of the other franchises.Perhaps Chris Pine is a bit too ambitious. Already established as the new Captain Kirk in the Star Trek re-boot, he seems somewhat over-matched in the Jack Ryan role. His stunning blue eyes may rival those of Frank Sinatra, but his screen presence falls short of Harrison Ford.Three favorite pieces in this one are recognition for Manhattan's long time theatre Film Forum, a two scene cameo from ballet great Mikhail Baryshnikov, and the appearance of Peter Andersson as Branagh's head of security (he was the sleazebag case worker in Sweden's original The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo). Kevin Costner states this is geopolitics, but I believe it is closer to Hollywood's desperation to recapture success instead of creating something new.
Greetings again from the darkness. Dogs, cats, fish, birds, hamsters, ferrets, snakes, and even pigs. We love our pets. We also love our zoos, city aquariums and SeaWorld parks. For many years, we have chosen to believe that the research and educational advances that come from these outlets outweigh any of the negatives involved with keeping wild animals in captivity. Filmmaker Gabriela Cowperthwaite shows us (by focusing on SeaWorld) that it's way past time for us to open our eyes to the cruelty involved with the capture and training of wild animals for entertainment purpose.The points made here are not speculation. We witness numerous interviews with "former" SeaWorld trainers. It's clear these people thought they had a bond with their co-performers. Most never even mention the term "killer whale" ... the common moniker for the majestic creatures better known as Orcas. The interviews have great impact, and when combined with startling TV news clips and footage from audience members, it becomes obvious that the huge profits and entertainment offered to families, are quite frankly generated by an immoral and inexcusable business model.Most of the story is tied together by the 2010 death of super-trainer Dawn Brancheau by Tilikum, the largest Orca in the SeaWorld group. What we soon learn is that Tilikum was captured in Iceland waters at the age of three, and has since had many incidents resulting in injuries and even three deaths. It's also stated that Tilikum is the head of the family tree for the majority of SeaWorld's performing Orcas.Of course, no one can or should blame these incredibly intelligent and emotional and family-oriented creatures. Everything about their existence goes against their natural habitat and way of life. The real issue is ... just because we CAN capture and train these animals, does that mean we SHOULD? If the focus is profits, then the answer is apparently yes. If instead, the focus is respecting nature and valuing other species, then the answer is much different.The Cove and Project Nim are two other documentaries that come to mind when thinking about filmmakers attempting to expose the danger in training wild animals. Watching this story had me hanging my head like the fisherman from the 1970's as he helped capture a young whale, as the family members swam nearby crying and screeching. Let's hope director Cowperthwaite's screams are heard. See this movie before deciding to visit another SeaWorld (who couldn't be bothered to comment on camera). There are better ways to teach your kids about nature and there are certainly less cruel forms of entertainment.
Greetings again from the darkness. There is nothing more frightening than the thoughts that occur within the recesses of our own mind. And therein lies the problem with so many "horror" movies. We may squirm and cover our eyes while watching the latest slasher film, but to stick with us as real horror, a film must tap into those internal, psychological fears that we each carry. This first feature film from writer/director Jennifer Kent does that so effectively that I am hesitant to write much more than  go see this one (but of course, I will).Ms. Kent has fully developed her award winning short film Monster from 2005. With a limited budget of around $2 million, she has figured out a way to utilize many horror staples: a misfit child, the family dog, an old house with creaky floors and doors, a musty basement, old reliables like under the bed and in the closet, open windows, and the always effective knocks on the door. Combine these touches with an incredibly creepy and dramatically graphically illustrated children's book, and terrific characters in the mom and her young son, and all the elements are in place for a suspenseful and terrifying film that is a throwback to the good old days.It's easy to spot the influences of such classics as William Friedkin's The Exorcist (1973), Stanley Kubrick's The Shining (1980), and Wes Craven's A Nightmare on Elm Street (1984), but Ms. Kent has her own style with the camera and expertly creates an atmosphere of widely disparate mood swings grounded in believable characters. Essie Davis (The Matrix Reloaded and The Matrix Revolutions) delivers an extraordinary performance as Amelia, whose husband died en route to the hospital as she gave birth to their son. Noah Wiseman plays Samuel, the now 7 year old boy who has behavioral issues, fears the monster under his bed, and recognizes the resentment his mom feels towards him as a constant reminder of the death that occurred on the day of his birth. Wiseman looks like a cross between Elijah Wood in Witness and Danny in The Shining  only he is much more energetic and animated than either of those characters.The suspense builds as Amelia's lack of sleep progressively wears her down, as her job and parenting responsibilities rob her of any down time or relaxation. She can't even get through a solo release in bed without her frightened son barging in for security. The dynamic between mother, son and dead husband/father elevate this to a level of psychological thrills that we don't often get on screen. There are so many superb moments to "enjoy". The amount of blood present is minimal, especially in comparison to modern day slashers. It's much more about how grief and stress can affect us in sinister ways. In addition to the influences already listed, there is also a tip of the cap to pioneer Georges Mêlées and his use of magic in the early days of film. Babadook may be an anagram for "a bad book", but it's also now synonymous with a really good horror movie!
Greetings again from the darkness. I have said many times that comedies are the most difficult of all film genres since no two people have the same sense of humor. While many people laughed til they cried during "The Hangover", others walked out of the theatre or simply had no interest at all. The same can be said for just about any Mel Brooks movie, as well as his contemporary, Judd Apatow. What we do know, is that a comedy's chance for success comes down to its characters, and in this area, "Cedar Rapids" works like a charm.Ed Helms (Andy in "The Office") stars as Tim Lippe, the most sheltered, naive mid-western insurance agent ever captured on film. Lippe lives and works in Brown Valley, Wisconsin ... the most sheltered, naive mid-western town ever captured on film. His only real excitement is found through his "pre-engagement" to his 7th grade teacher played very well by Sigourney Weaver (probably the most worldly person in Brown Valley). When an embarrassing accident claims the life of the hot shot agent in Lippe's firm, the owner (Stephen Root) sends Lippe to the annual convention in Cedar Rapids. His mission is to win the coveted 2-Diamond Award presented by industry legend Orin Helgesson (a snippy Kurtwood Smith).Since a lone character can't generate many laughs, circumstances at the convention cause Lippe to find himself roommates with a very noble Ronald Wilkes (Isiah Whitlock, Jr from "The Wire") and fast-talking poacher Dean Ziegler (John C Riley). These 3 are joined together by Nebraska agent Joan Ostrowski-Fox (Anne Heche). Lippe is quickly introduced to the "real world" by his new friends and after the first 20 minutes of set-up, the lines and settings get funnier and funnier.As with most comedies these days, the trailer gives away much more than it should; but, unlike most, it leaves plenty of laughs and situations for the film. What really makes this work is that all characters are actually pretty nice people ... they are just a bit exaggerated in their traits. Lippe is a bit too naive. Wilkes is a bit too uptight. Ziegler is a bit too obnoxious, and Fox is just a little too lonely and adventurous. Still, their earnestness is what keeps the film grounded.Mr. Helms is really a comic force. He has the extraordinary ability to never hold back or worry how that he might not look cool. Even as the lead character, he knows when scene-stealer John C Riley should have the spotlight. This is a tremendous asset for a comic.I won't give away much, but will warn that some of the humor is crude ... especially some of Riley's rapid-fire one-liners. If you prefer your humor to be grounded with real people, then you might want to check this one out. I have only previously known this director, Miguel Arteta, as the guy responsible for Jennifer Aniston's best screen performance ("The Good Girl"). Now I look forward to his next project.
Greetings again from the darkness. Some of the finer things in life are an acquired taste. The exception to that is writer/director Wes Anderson's films. You either "get" it or you don't. Which side of the line you fall is much more a matter of style and taste than intellect.This latest from Anderson may be his most visually distinct and stylistic presentation yet. He even tosses in a bit of a plot so that we have reason to follow the outlandish antics of master concierge (and murder suspect) M Gustave - played with comic verve by Ralph Fiennes. Yes, the Ralph Fiennes known for such comedy classics as Schindler's List, The English Patient and The Hurt Locker. Admit it, when you need a laugh, you fire up the Ralph Fiennes stand-up routine. OK, so he did have a role in the terrific In Bruges, but nothing has prepared us for seeing him in this witty, fast-talking role at the center of Anderson's wildest ride yet.As any follower of Anderson films will tell you, there is always fun to be had in picking out the members of his supporting cast. Assisting Mr. Fiennes with this one are Edward Norton, Jude Law, F Murray Abraham, Tilda Swinton (oddly cast after Angela Lansbury dropped out), Adrien Brody, Willem Dafoe, Jeff Goldblum, Harvey Keitel, Tom Wilkinson, Saoirse Ronan, Lea Seydoux, Mathieu Amalric, Jason Schwartzman, and Owen Wilson. Of course, there is also Bill Murray, in his seventh collaboration with Anderson. The most impressive new face is that of Tony Revolori, who plays the teenage Lobby Boy in training ... a role that turns vital when he is befriended by Gustave.None of that really matters though, as the best description I give this is spectacle. It's a whimsical romp with nostalgic tributes throughout. It's a movie for movie lovers from a true movie lover. You will notice the three distinct aspect ratios used to depict the different time periods, and the music is perfect ... from Vivaldi's Concerto for Lute and Plucked Strings to Alexandre Desplat's fantastic composition over the closing credits. If you are up for some hyper-stylistic eye candy, this one is tough to beat (especially this time of year).
Greetings again from the darkness. With the greatness of "Shawshank Redemption" on his resume, writer/director Frank Darabont's name will forever be associated with film greatness. Hooking up again with a Stephen King ("The Green Mile") story, Darabont takes aim at the monster/creature/sci-fi films of the 50's and 60's (think "The Blob" not "The Fog"). While this one has significant human nature editorializing, the actual frights are few and far between because mostly what we see are some stupid looking bugs that can be killed with a mop handle.The hero is Thomas Jane ("The Punisher") and a couple of his nemesis are played here by Andre Braugher ("Homicide") and a scene-chewing Marcia Gay Harden as the religious fanatic, who seizes her moment on the mountain top. Also joining in the food store fun is Laurie Holden, who spends most of the film taking care of Jane's wimpy son, William Sadler as a total buffoon, and Alexa Davalos (very good in "Feast of Love") who demonstrates what the bugs are capable of.The two best performances are from Toby Jones ("Infamous") as the sharp tongued, sharp-shooting grocery clerk and the great Frances Sternhagen, whose character could make a fine little film unto herself. Of course, this film is not about the acting ... it is about the frightening monsters in the mist. Exploring the fear of the unknown, the effects of trauma and stress and expediency at which the religious fanatics seize on weakness. And yes, this is 2007, so there is a story line that bashes the military. I believe a similar type story line exists in 83% of films released this year.While not the best work from King or Darabont, it is a satisfactory monster movie that pretends to look deeper, but is actually pretty shallow.
Greetings again from the darkness. Writer/Director Gus Van Sant continues his long fascination (or obsession) with the bleak underbelly of teens on the outside. Again utilizing many first time actors, his quasi-documentary approach adds a touch of realism to a mostly weak story.Newcomer Gabe Nevins reminds of Lou Taylor Pucci and his mostly expressionless face is the star of the film. Smothered by his unraveling life and an accidental death, his character struggles with communicating and dealing, finally resorting to the old "write it all down to get it out" theory ... and then burning it.Nevins lives a typical teenager life with a family that is breaking up, a high-pressure girlfriend, a needy little brother, the tedious daily routine of school and an overall lack of direction. He basically handles all this by saying very little to anyone and just using skateboarding as an escape. By the way, his girlfriend will look familiar to you because Taylor Momsen played Cindy Lou Who in the remake of "The Grinch Stole Christmas".Van Sant's non-linear approach to the story mimics Nevin's inability to write his thoughts in a cohesive timeline. In fact, there are numerous duplicate scenes giving the film even more of a forced feeling. Definitely not Van Sant's best work, but just enough insight to prevent a total bust.
Greetings again from the darkness. Laurel Canyon and High Art are two of director Lisa Cholodenko's previous best films. She seems to have a knack for exploring interpersonal relationships and observing human emotions. Here she co-wrote a very good and insightful script with Stuart Blumberg.The story centers around a married lesbian couple played by Annette Bening and Julianne Moore. They play the moms' to Mia Wasikowska (Alice in Wonderland) and Josh Hutcherson (Bridge to Terabitha). Turns out, each of the ladies gave birth to these kids with help of a single sperm donor. The kids decide they want to meet the donor dad and it turns out he is uber-cool Mark Ruffalo: owner of an organic garden and restaurant, rider of awesome motorcycle, wearer of stylistic leather jacket, and master of hippie-type language that connects with teenagers. In other words, he is a parents' worst nightmare.The story examines real life issues such as marriage, family life, mid-life crisis and self-fulfillment. It wraps those things brilliantly around an unconventional family, each with recognizable personality types.The weakness in the film is two-fold. An important storyline develops between Ruffalo and one of the moms that just seemed out of place to me. The point was made, but could have been made in a much more realistic way. Worse though is the performances of two wonderful actresses - Annette Bening and Julianne Moore. With a couple of exceptions, I thought they were both over-the-top in just about every scene. They were almost caricatures of their character types. My gut feeling is that one or both will receive Oscar nods because of the "risky" roles, but the histrionics should not be rewarded.Interesting tidbit: daughters of Steven Spielberg, David Mamet and Michael Eisner all have roles in the film. Wow ... that's some parental firepower in Hollywood! This one is worth seeing for the script and for Ruffalo's best performance, but it's really not as funny as it tries to be. Probably would have worked better as a straight drama.
Greetings again from the darkness. In 2010, writer/director Matthew Vaughn turned the superhero genre on its ear with the hit Kick-Ass. With this most recent film, he has done the same thing to spy-thrillers. We get the well-tailored look made famous by Roger Moore's James Bond, the fanciful and lethal gadgets from early Bond films, the ever-present umbrella (put to new uses here) of The Avenger's John Steed, and the ultra-suave and debonair manners of Napoleon Solo from The Man from U.N.C.L.E. We get all of that in a surprisingly effective and fun action performance from Colin Firth.Fun is the operative word here. It's clear all parties involved are having a great time, especially Mr Firth going drastically against type. There are two action-packed and pretty humorous (in a demented way) fight scenes. One is early on inside a London pub, and has Firth flashing his particular set of skills against a group of thugs. The other (and even more raucous) fight occurs inside a church and is set to Lynryd Skynyrd's "Free Bird". The body count piled up as fast as the guitar licks.As spectacular as the fight scenes are, the real fun here is in the characters. The old guard of the Kingsmen includes Firth as Galahad, Mark Strong as Merlin, Jack Davenport as Lancelot, and Michael Caine as Arthur. This long-standing group is one part international spy, one part Knights of the Round Table  and these gentlemen are extremely well trained and impeccably well dressed. When one of their agents dies on the job, the recruitment boot camp kicks into gear. Made up of a group of relative newcomers to the movie world, the two most interesting are Roxy (Sophie Cookson) and Eggsy (Taron Egerton). Adding to the intrigue, Eggsy is the son of a former Kingsmen, and has some skills that aren't initially apparent.Of course, what would a spy-tribute movie be without a colorful villain? Samuel L Jackson plays lispy megalomaniac Valentine, who has a quick gag reflex when it comes to violence. Fortunately his henchman Gazelle (Sofia Boutella) is equipped with razor sharp leg prosthetics and some ultra-crazy fighting skills. We even see Mark Hamill as Professor Arnold  fans of the Mark Miller/Dave Gibbons graphic novel will appreciate the irony. Firth and Egerton play off each other quite well in the mentor-pupil relationship, and Egerton is clearly set up for the franchise sequels  as is his friend and fellow Kingsman, Ms. Cookson. For those who think the Daniel Craig Bond films are too dark and serious, this provides a flashback to lighter Bond fare (minus the misogyny). Many hot topics are touched on: class warfare, domestic abuse, racism, etc, but mostly this can be taken as a rollicking good time because "it's not that kind of movie". It does, however, remind us that "manners make the man".
Greetings again from the darkness. Usually the only time a trailer is better than the actual movie is a comedy - where all the "funny stuff" is spoiled ahead of time. "Babel" had a terrific trailer that left us believing this would be an armrest clutching thriller. Instead we get a visually stunning lackluster attempt to recapture "21 Grams".Alejandro Gonzalez Inarritu ("21 Grams" and "Amores perros") directed "Babel" and co-wrote the script with Guillermo Arriaga. The multi-storyline with intertwining plots has been used very well recently in films like "21 Grams", "Traffic" and "Crash". Not sure exactly what is missing here, but we end up with multiple stories and characters that we care very little about. We do see loneliness and prejudice in all stories and many scenes are uncomfortable to watch, but each story is lacking something and the filmmakers seem to stoop to shock therapy whenever they are stuck.On one hand, it is worth seeing the film to see Brad Pitt not break out his smarmy smirk even once and the explosive Gael Garcia Bernal again leaps off the screen in his limited time, but for some reason Dakota Fanning's little sister Elle gets just about as much screen time as Mr. Garcia, although Adriana Barrage is fascinating as the nanny. Cate Blanchett is wasted as the American wounded while on a tour bus. The deaf-mute Japanese teenager who is in so much emotional turmoil is painful to watch, but we are never given a reason to connect with her. All of these issues are factors of lack of development in each of the stories. Close, but no cigar.Director Inarritu provides another visual masterpiece, but unlike his previous film gems, this time the guts are missing.
Greetings again from the darkness. If you have seen the trailer, you might have the wrong impression. This is no laugh riot. Sure there is plenty of humor and you will laugh, but it's not the slapstick goofy movie the trailer leads us to believe. Oddly enough, one could make the case that it's actually a "message" movie.Director Jesse Peretz has teamed with his writer sister Evgenia to dive into the often strained relationships between siblings - especially brother and sister, or in this case, brother and 3 sisters. There are numerous examples of how we often cheat or lie our way through life, or at a minimum, trick ourselves into believing (or not) certain things about ourselves and our loved ones.The movie begins just like the trailer. Ned (Paul Rudd) is working an organic vegetable booth and is approached by a UNIFORMED police officer to buy some pot. Ned laughs it off until the officer says "It's been a really rough week". See, Ned is an incredibly nice and trusting guy. He always wants to help people and treat them kindly. This scene sets the stage ... is Ned really an idiot or are we the idiots for not being as open and trusting as he? Once Ned is released early from jail (good behavior, of course), he naturally returns to the organic farm and his girlfriend of 3 years (Kathryn Hahn). To his surprise, he finds she has moved on to Ned's apparent replicant Billy (TJ Miller). Even worse, she has no plans to let Ned take his beloved dog, Willie Nelson.So Ned heads off to re-connect with his mom (Shirley Knight) and 3 sisters. Miranda (Elizabeth Banks) is a hard-driving career woman trying to break into the magazine writing world. She believes in stopping at nothing for a break or to nab a story, or even take advantage of her neighbor (Adam Scott). Liz (Emily Mortimer) is a dedicated Mom and frustrated wife married to Dylan (Steve Coogan), a documentary filmmaker. Natalie (Zooey Deschanel) is the world's worst stand-up comedian as well as a quasi-lesbian in love with lawyer Cindy (Rashida Jones in ridiculous wardrobe and glasses).Not going to ruin the individual story lines, but obviously Ned spends time with each of his sisters and manages to wreak havoc for each of them. At least that's how they see it. All he really does is act nice, be open and tell the truth. The chips then fall where they may. Each of the sisters learn a bit about Ned, but even more about themselves.As previously stated, there are plenty of laughs in this one, but also moments of drama and reality that work like a bucket of ice dumped on your head. The above cast is excellent and also includes Hugh Dancy and Bob Stephenson as the police officer from the opening. Mr. Stephenson is very talented and can do much with little. For proof stay for the outtakes over the closing credits. His is a gem.While the sisters are all quite annoying in their own special ways, it is Paul Rudd who makes the film work at all. He has the eyes, nature and smile to pull off this character as someone who could actually exist. Someone we all wish we could be a little more like.
Greetings again from the darkness. I can sit in a theater and watch a mediocre movie, but when it comes time to write about it, there is no motivation or appeal. The most positive comment I can make is that it stars two very pretty men.This one has "paycheck project" written all over it. Ben Affleck and Justin Timberlake simply go through the motions as if someone is feeding them their lines through an ear piece. Gemma Arterton should never stoop to such a mundane and lifeless role ... though her hair and make-up are terrific. Only John Heard and Anthony Mackie come across as professional actors, and their minor roles are so limited, they barely register.Writing partners Brian Koppelman and David Levien co-wrote the excellent Rounders, but this one merely teases the dark underbelly of online gambling. It has neither the depth, plot or character development that we would expect from a movie with this premise and cast. Director Brad Furman showed promise with The Lincoln Lawyer, but this one comes across as being rushed through production with faux-style.The closest comparison I can come up with is last year's Savages, directed by Oliver Stone ... and even that one was more enjoyable. Rather than a MPAA warning for Language, I would prefer a heads-up whenever the filmmaking team really doesn't care much for the project. At least I could spend my money and time watching a different movie.
Greetings again from the darkness. It seems apropos that Hollywood's first stylish thriller with tongue planted firmly in cheek should come from director Alfred Hitchcock. We get two of the most iconic scenes in one film: Cary Grant being targeted by a crop duster, and the chase across the faces of Mt Rushmore. That combined with the stellar writing of famed screenwriter Ernest Lehman (West Side Story, The Sound of Music) provide one the all-time most entertaining and beloved thrillers.Cary Grant plays Roger O Thornhill (the O stands for nothing), a Madison Avenue Advertising hotshot who gets mixed up in a wild case of mistaken identity that involves the CIA and an unnamed foreign intelligence agency. Spies who nab the wrong guy ... there's something funny about that, as long as you aren't "the guy". The story is tied into the Cold War, but really the fun part of the film involves watching Thornhill maneuver his way through the maze with very little assistance. Well Eve Kendall (played by Eva Marie Saint) says she is helping, but it doesn't take long to figure out that she's no innocent bystander ... what blonde ever is innocent in a Hitchcock film? The bad guy is Vandamm, played with true menace by James Mason (whose wonderfully creepy voice always made him a terrific villain). His henchman is a young Martin Landau, whose mannerisms will have you raising an eyebrow throughout. While many rave about the scenes with Grant and Ms. Saint, my favorites involve Grant and Mason. Two suave masters going at each other with verbal sparring that stands up more than 50 years later.This was Hitchcock's only film for MGM, and I would argue it is his most visually stylish ... clothing, set decorations and the beautiful scenery and camera work. Of course, one can't help notice the poor gray suit that Grant wears through most of the film. It looks fabulous on him, even after he crawls out of the corn fields. Mr. Grant may be the most elegant actor to ever grace the silver screen. He moves like a dancer and has the face of model. This is a true movie star. I have often stated that he mastered the confounded grimace and the quick, sly smile and he built a career.Bernard Herrmann delivered yet another perfect score and Lehman's risqué' (for the times) dialogue is especially fun in the train's dining car. Finally getting to see this one on the big screen gave me a whole new appreciation for the crop dusting scene and Mt Rushmore. The scale of both segments is pure Hitchcock art. On a final note, there are so many character actors whom you will recognize throughout the film. Many went on to long careers in the 60's and 70's and even beyond. A true classic from the master.
Greetings again from the darkness. Not really certain what to make of this one. On one hand, it is a remarkable biopic about a fabulous singing talent who lived an extremely troubled life. From a film-making perspective, it is all over the place. At times beautifully filmed, yet the non-linear presentation creates a mess when told over such a short period of time.One thing for sure, Marion Cotillard is truly exceptional as the troubled Edith Piaf. What a transformation Ms. Cotillard makes from the wild, drunken youngster to the broken down, spunky forty-something whom life has blown by. If you doubt the physical transformation, let me remind you that Ms. Cotillard was the beauty from last year's Russell Crowe film, "A Good Year".Terrific support work from Sylvie Testud as Piaf's friend Momone, Emmanuelle Seigner as her prostitute-turned-surrogate mother, and Gerard Depardieu as the nightclub owner who first recognizes this stunning talent while she sings on the street for coins.Director Oliver Daham may or may not be a Piaf worshipper. He seems to pull no punches in making the point that she got few breaks in life, but also brought a significant amount of her pain onto herself through drinking and self wallowing. He does capture Piaf's amazing ability to burst through the pain and display the fantastic voice regardless of the moment's challenges. He does his best directing at the house of ill repute where young Edith gets dumped by her dad.The film leaves many of the personal life rumors untouched and only mentions Yves Montand once, and throws in a quick scene with Marelene Dietrich ... both who figure large in those rumors! Regardless, the film is worth watching, if for no other reason that Ms. Cotillard's performance and the amazing Piaf songs.
Greetings again from the darkness. Hollywood versus Broadway. Screen versus Stage. It's always been a bit Hatfield's and McCoy's. The basic argument comes down to celebrity versus artistic merit. Director Alejandro Gonzalez Inarritu blurs the lines with his most creative and daring project to date. It's also his funniest, but that's not really saying much since his resume includes Babel, 21 Grams and Amores Perros.The basic story involves a former Hollywood actor well known for playing a superhero (Birdman) many years ago. Riggan is played by Michael Keaton, who you might recall garnered fame playing Batman many years ago. While the parallels are obvious, it's quickly forgotten thanks to a majestic performance from Mr. Keaton. Riggan is trying to prove something to himself and the world by writing, directing and starring in a stage production of Raymond Carver's short story "What We Talk About When We Talk About Love".Riggan's quest runs into every imaginable obstacle, not the least of which is his own internal struggle with his ego ... voiced by his former Birdman character. This could have been a more detailed exploratory view of the creative ego, but we also have money issues, casting issues, personal issues, professional issues and family issues.Zach Galifianakis plays Riggan's best friend-agent-lawyer, and is the film's most grounded character. Yes, you can read the sentence again. A slimmed down Zach perfectly captures the highs and lows of the guy charged with juggling the creative egos and the business requirements of the production. Naomi Watts plays the exceedingly nervous and emotional film star making her stage debut, while her boyfriend and co-star is played by Edward Norton who, well, basically plays Edward Norton ... a critically respected method actor who is known to be a royal pain in the keister. Riggan's current squeeze, who is also an actress in the play, is played by Andrea Riseborough who gleefully blindsides him with an announcement that is unwelcome and untimely. Riggan also receives visits from his ex-wife (Amy Ryan) and is employing his fresh-from-rehab daughter (Emma Stone) in an assistant role. As if all of this wasn't enough, a tipsy Riggan botches a pub interaction with an all-powerful stage critic (Lindsay Duncan), and the two trade incisive insults regarding each other's vocation. So all of these characters and worlds collide as the production nears the always stress-inducing opening night.After all of that, it's pretty easy to state that the script is the weakest part of the film. Instead, the directing, cinematography, editing and acting make for one of the most unique movie experiences of all time. Director Inarritu and famed cinematographer Emmanuel Lubezki and the editing team, deliver what appears to be a single take for mostly the entire run of the film. Of course we know it can't possibly be a single take, but it's so seamless that the breaks are never obvious to us as viewers. We have seen a similar approach by Alfred Hitchcock in his 1948 film Rope, but this time it's a frenetic pace, and the maze-like setting in the bowels of NYC's St James Theatre that makes this one a spectacular technical achievement.Lubezki won an Oscar for his camera work on Gravity, and he has also worked on multiple Terrence Malick films, but this is the pinnacle of his career to date. It's impossible to even comprehend the coordination required for the camera work, the actor's lines and marks, the on que jazz percussion score from Antonio Sanchez, and the fluidity of movement through the narrow halls and doorways of backstage. It's truly a work of art ... whether a stage critic thinks so or not! Most every cinephile will see this one multiple times, but mainstream appeal will certainly not grab ahold. Reality, fantasy, insanity, and morbidity all play a role here and frequently occupy a character simultaneously. These aren't likable people, and the film's crucial scene forces Mr Keaton to speed-walk through Times Square in only his tighty-whities, leaving his character in the proverbial "naked on stage" situation. It's rare to see such unflattering looks at both the stage and screen worlds, and it's also rare to see such fine performances. Three standouts are Keaton, Norton and Stone. If the industry can avoid presenting awards to itself for "cartoons and pornography", these three should all capture Oscar nominations.Beyond that, director Inarritu, cinematographer Lubezki, and composer Sanchez deserve special recognition for their incredibly complex technical achievements. For those who complain that Hollywoood only produces re-treads, sequels and superhero movies, take a walk on the wild side and give this one a shot. You may not love it, but you'll likely admire it.
Greetings again from the darkness. "Freaks and Geeks" lives on through multiple tie-ins - not the least of which is writer/director and producer Judd Apatow (best known for his smash hit "40 Year Old Virgin"). This is a sharp comedy and cutting insight thanks to a terrific script, excellent comedic timing from Seth Rogen and Apatow's feel for a scene.Rogen plays Ben Stone, a slacker who spends all his time smoking pot with his friends and conceptualizing an "informational" web site. One evening, while hanging with his buds in a club, he stumbles onto a ridiculously beautiful and ripe for the taking Katherine Heigl (Izzie from Grey's Anatomy). One thing leads to another and the next thing we know Heigl's character, Alison, is knocked up.It would be easy to classify this as a slapstick comedy in the mode of "Wedding Crashers", but in fact, Apatow's script offers up some insightful commentary on marriage, family and relationships of all types. Apatow's real life wife, Leslie Mann, plays Heigl's sister who dreams of the perfect marriage, but is crushed when she discovers her husband's secret (not what you think). Mann's "cheating" husband is played brilliantly by Paul Rudd ... who flashes a very nice DeNiro impersonation.The only weaknesses of the film are the shortage of scenes between Heigl and Rogen, and the fact that the film probably lasts 15 minutes too long. The whole Las Vegas sequence could have been cut. Still, this is not your typical comedy and please be prepared for some harsh (and loud) language and some very graphic visuals ... it is rated R for more than one reason! Apatow is creating his own look and feel and shows flashes of brilliant comedy writing. He could challenge the Cohen Brothers in the near future for the throne of off-beat comedy. Don't miss the fine songs from Loudon Wainwright III - especially the one playing over the closing credits.
Greetings again from the darkness. It has taken me a few days to process my thoughts on the film. I went in with high expectations thanks to the brilliance of director Danny Boyle ("Millions", "28 Days Later", "Trainspotting"). I came out trying to decipher this unique approach to film-making and story telling.Sadly, I must conclude that while I admire the creativity and aspirations of those involved, this is pretty much a mess of a film. Parts of it look like a 1970's Pink Floyd concert. Parts are clear rip-offs/tributes to "2001: A Space Odyssey". Still others give you the feeling that it is about to spin off into "Alien". While each of those segments have merits, once assembled it ends up like bubble gum in a blender.Cillian Murphy. Cliff Curtis and Rose Byrne are both very solid in their roles, while Chris Evans ("Fantastic Four") is way over the top and Michelle Yeoh is reduced to pretty much standing/sitting or lusting after the vegetable garden.This will have no impact on my enthusiasm towards Danny Boyle's next project ... I admire his risk taking and unique approach. Just chalk this one up as one that just didn't work.
Greetings again from the darkness. Being a fan of the first one and disappointed in the second, I had high hopes for this one ... especially knowing Venom and Sandman would be battling Spidey! Director Sam Raimi (responsible for all three and possibly a fourth Spider-Man movie) turns this one into every bit the mess that Sandman is as he is washed out through the sewer system. Too bad the movie can't resurrect itself. Three good things: the black suit, the first few scenes of Sandman and the great Bruce Campbell. The bad things: pretty much everything else ... except a couple of scenes with Elizabeth Banks and an almost unrecognizable Theresa Russell (as Sandman's wife).Tobey Maguire just doesn't have the chops to pull off "tough guy" Spider-Man. Raimi knew this and tried to instill much slapstick. Instead, we just get a failed SNL skit. Maguire has the nerdy Peter Parker down, but his Wes Bentley look flops big time. Kirsten Dunst continues to flaunt the worst hair of any female movie star and is in jeopardy of having her potentially huge career as a real actress pass her right by. James Franco is his usual bland "little Goblin".New bad guys include Thomas Haden Church ("Sideways") as Sandman and Topher Grace ("That 70's Show") as Venom. Church is very good, Grace is horrible. Ron Howard's daughter Bryce Dallas Howard is one of several excesses in the film, but it is nice to catch a quick glimpse of Willem Dafoe and an actual speaking role for creator Stan Lee.By far the funniest part of the film is Bruce Campbell as the French Maitre d' trying so hard to make the evening romantic for Parker and Mary Jane. The best special effects are the first few scenes of Sandman. Most of the other special effects are way over the top and lose their effectiveness.My absolute biggest complaint is the fact that every major character weeps like a baby at some point. Super heroes and villains shouldn't be weeping!! The amount of emotional junk included in the script is boring, poorly written and horribly executed. This gives the film a dragged out feeling and easily adds 25 unnecessary minutes to the film. Is it fun to watch? The action scenes definitely are. Is it a classic. Absolutely not. Please, Mr. Raimi, let the franchise rest in peace.
Greetings again from the darkness. Director Juan Antonio Bayona and writer Sergio C Sanchez reunite for their follow-up to The Orphanage (2007). What separates this from the long list of disaster films is that it's exceedingly well made, it's based on a true story, and it puts a young actor in a role vital to the connection with audience.The real life Belon family from Spain have for some reason been presented here (by Spanish filmmakers) as the British Bennett's with Ewan McGregor and Naomi Watts (as Henry and Maria). They are on vacation at a beach resort with their three boys Lucas (Tom Holland), Thomas (Samuel Joslin), and Simon (Oaklee Pendergast). In the beginning the resort plays like paradise. Unfortunately, this is Thailand in 2004 when one of the worst natural disasters of all-time hits ... a Tsunami with enormous force and monstrous waves.Filmed with remarkable intensity, we see Maria and Lucas (separated from the others) struggle mightily to survive and stay together. This 10 minute sequence leaves the audience spent and gasping for air. Rarely do we witness such realistic near-drownings on screen. The film soon breaks into two simultaneous acts: the fight for survival by Maria and Lucas; and the quest to find them by Henry, Thomas and Simon.The first half of the film is the strongest portion and it deals with the storm and it's aftermath. The second half is very emotional and focuses on the courage of Lucas and the strength of Maria. It's one of the most unique combination tales of survival and family love that we've seen. The filmmakers wisely choose to let the story follow the family and not throw in cheap parlor tricks like TV newscasts. We all remember those reports, and the actual film does a terrific job of recreating those images.Acting by the leads take this to elite status. Ewan McGregor turns in what is his best performance in quite some time. His phone call home scene is excruciating to watch. Naomi Watts delivers what is likely an Oscar nominated performance, despite being almost unrecognizable while laying in a hospital bed during much of the film. The real star and soul of the film is Tom Holland as the youngest son. His performance recalls that of Hailee Steinfeld in True Grit and Shailene Woodley in The Descendants ... two of the best ever child performances.Be forewarned. This one is a true tearjerker ... especially if you are a parent or grandparent. Keeping in mind that it's the true story of one family's ordeal makes a few scenes almost impossible to watch clear-eyed. The film ends with a photo of the Belon family ... perfect.
Greetings again from the darkness. Well, it's the best kind of Nic Cage role ... very little dialogue and plenty of scenes with him not included. Lots of special effects. Has some similarities to movies like National Treasure (another Jon Turtletaub directorial effort) and The Shadow. Can you tell I am struggling to find the positives?The basic story involves Merlin's three assistants (Balthazar, Horvath and Veronica) and their struggles after Merlin is killed by the evilest of all evil, Morganna (Alice Krige). Of course, that murder happened hundreds of years ago and poor Balthazar has been on a global search for the only sorcerer's apprentice who can save the world in case Morganna is released.Since Veronica (Monica Bellucci) sacrificed herself to capture Morganna, it is really important to Balthazar (Cage) that he find this apprentice who can also help revive Veronica, who is his one true love. The bad guy is Horvath (played well by Alfred Molina). He is on a mission to release Morganna so she can destroy the world and choose him as her assistant. Yeah, I know, lots of details that don't really matter.The reluctant apprentice is played by Jay Baruchel. Or someone playing Jay Baruchel. Can't really tell since every role he takes is EXACTLY the same character. At least here he plays a physics prodigy. Yeah, right.Next to Molina, the most fun is had when Toby Kebbell (RocknRolla) is on screen. He is a real hoot and these two play well off each other. The other attempt at humor is a weak homage to the Disney classic Fantasia, replete with moving mops, etc. No surprise, the sequence comes up well short of the original and Baruchel just doesn't have the physical skills to pull it off.I assume this movie is aimed at 10 year olds and I am just not sure they will understand the story, though I feel confident the big special effects and cool car chase will be enough for a few oohs and ahhs. Those over 10 ... enter at your own risk.
Greetings again from the darkness. Two huge Old Testament epics in one year is quite unusual in this era of superhero overload. But then, if you squint just right, there is a dash of superhero in both Noah and Moses, and each of their stories plays equally well as an action-packed adventure or bible scripture. If you are the type to analyze all the religious errors, you might first consider that the three male leads are played by an Australian, a Welsh, and a Knighted Sir. So a grain of salt is in order; and you should understand that director Ridley Scott (Gladiator, 2000) is more interested in the cinematic "wow" factor than he is in biblical accuracy.Moses (Christian Bale) and Ramses (Joel Edgerton) are raised as brothers in Egypt circa 1300 BCE. Ramses' father is the ruling Pharaoh Seti (John Turturro) who believes Moses to be the better leader of people than his own son. But in those days, blood ruled, and soon after discovering that Moses is actually Hebrew rather than Egyptian, Ramses cast him into the desert.A few years later Moses chats it up with God (actually Metatron archangel that looks like a schoolboy), and the next thing we know, fish are dying in poisoned waters, giant crocodiles are chomping on fisherman, an impressive onslaught of frogs and locusts attack, followed by massive swarms of flies, and finally the darkness of death. Ramses finally ends the streak of plagues by agreeing to free the Hebrew slaves. Moses then leads the masses on the infamous trek  a not so enjoyable trip that peaks with the parting of Red Sea  a very impressive movie effect, even when compared to the wall of water seen recently in Interstellar.The movie is dominated by Bale and Edgerton, with only minor supporting roles from John Turturro, Sigourney Weaver (maybe 3 lines of dialogue), Aaron Paul as Joshua (lots of quiet eye-balling of Moses), Sir Ben Kingsley as Nun, a hilarious Ben Mendelsohn, the always energetic Ewen Bremner, and the very classy Hiam Abbass.Director Ridley Scott has dedicated this one to his brother Tony, and it's sure to be one of those movies that some critics will enjoy bashing, just because they can. And there will be the nostalgic viewers who fondly recall Cecil B DeMille's The Ten Commandments (either version), and the pomposity displayed by Charlton Heston and Yul Brynner. But for those movie goers looking for an adventure movie in the form of a throwback biblical epic with eye-popping special effects, it seems the answer will be a resounding "yes" to the question of  "Are you not entertained?"
Greetings again from the darkness. Once so faithful to filming in NYC, Woody Allen continues his love fest with England. Although not quite at the level of "Scoop" or especially "Match Point", this one is still entertaining and has more than a few classic Woody moments.The acting in this one is top notch. Ewan McGregor and Collin Farrell are working class brothers who just can't seem to get things right in their lives. Farrell plays the weaker one who has more than a small gambling and drinking problem despite the dedication of Sally Hawkins (in a nice performance). McGregor is the slicker of the two and has high ideals about what he could accomplish if not held back by his parents' restaurant. When he falls hard for an actress, played by Hayley Atwell, he sets himself up for some bad decision making.One of the best movie scenes you will find is the one with McGregor and Farrell and Tom Wilkinson holding a very animated conversation under the tree in the rain. The camera work and sound really compliment terrific performances and crackling dialogue. That one scene is worth the price of admission.The moral of the story seems to be, if you must have a partner while committing murder, at least make sure it's not a weak at heart partner who has a conscience! My biggest question in this one is how could these two parents ever conceive such attractive sons?? The camera work is complimented by another great score from Philip Glass. Woody's next film is based in Barcelona and features the great Javier Bardem, Scarlett Johansson and Penelope Cruz. Can't wait!!
Greetings again from the darkness. Two people telling the same story can sound infinitely different. Two people united in their efforts to solve a mystery can have vastly different reactions to the same situations. Such personality and attitudinal differences are the real core of this story ... even more than the true life inspired story of a quest to reunite a mother and child after 50 years.Peter Mullan's startling 2002 film The Magdalene Sisters provided us a look into the dark side of Ireland convents in the 1950's. Here, director Stephen Frears brings us the very personal story of Philomena Lee - one of the unwed teenagers sent to the convent to deliver her baby and work off her debt to the nuns and church, after signing away all access to her child. It's a heart-breaking story of the times, of the church, and of a singular woman. Philomena struggles with guilt and regret over 50 years until her daughter arranges a meeting with journalist Martin Sixsmith. This begins their journey to uncover the truth and find Philomena's son.Dame Judi Dench plays Philomena and Steve Coogan (also co-writer and producer) plays Martin, resulting in a very "odd couple" road trip and personality test. Dench is remarkable is her role as the simple woman who reads romance novels, gets excited about salad bars, is thrilled with mints on her pillow, and has lived a lifetime with a hole in her heart created by having her young son ripped from her world. Coogan is effectively restrained as the snooty Brit journalist who thinks human interest stories are a waste of time. She has maintained her religious faith and faith in people, while he has long ago given up on God and flaunts his cynicism in most every situation.Some will view the movie as anti-Catholic ... it is difficult to defend the painful childbirth, isolated mothers, selling of children and lack of assistance in reconciling the parties. Others will view this as a victory of faith over intellect. It's the world-weary journalist with the $5.00 words who ends up learning a life lesson. It can be a reminder that life is going to throw some difficult situations your way. It's your attitude and approach that will determine how you deal with it ... and how much emotional pain follows. This is another entry into gray cinema that will generate much debate a discussion ... a sure sign of success for a movie! www.MovieReviewsFromTheDark.wordpress.com
Greetings again from the darkness. Sure, the movie is probably 45 minutes longer than it should have been. And yes, there are a multitude of details that don't add up or are just left dangling. And granted, the franchise drifted away from the stellar humor on display in the classic first installment. But, if you see a lot of movies, you have to admit that the visual feast provided here by director Gore Verbinski is a fitting send off (hopefully) for these beloved Pirates! The usual suspects are all back ... Johnny Depp as Captain Jack Sparrow, Geoffrey Rush as Barbossa, Orlando Bloom as Will Turner, Keira Knightley as Elizabeth Swann and Bill Nighy as Davy Jones. For some reason, Depp's screen time is again limited and Knightley's is expanded. She doesn't have the chops to pull off "King of the Pirates", but Verbinski obviously enjoys seeing her face (and weak voice) on screen. Rush sparkles as Barbossa and Bill Nighy actually gets to show a glimpse of the face behind the tentacles! Naomie Harris has much more to do in this one as the pivotal Calypso character ... with some spectacular powers. And the always excellent Stellan Skaarsgard provides a touch of class as Bootstrap Bill. Joining the cast are Chow Yun-Fat as a powerful Singapore pirate and, of course, the much anticipated appearance of Keith Richards as Jack Sparrow's dad.The story itself is a bit messy and convoluted, but again, this is about the visuals. The battle scenes are overwhelming and the ships are very impressive. For special effects, few, if any, have ever been better. The disappointment stems from what is a near waste of one of the most interesting and entertaining characters in film history, Jack Sparrow. The second and third films just didn't allow Depp to do much with Sparrow. When he does have screen time, the theatre comes alive with anticipation. Sparrow is who most of us have come to see. It could have been so much more.
Greetings again from the darkness. A true tour de force by Forest Whitaker ... the best performance of the year so far! Somehow Mr. Whitaker captures the madness and charm of Ugandan dictator Idi Amin. Amin was one of the first political rock stars. He used the media to his advantage as his regime slaughtered hundreds of thousands of his countrymen.Also impressive is James McAvoy ("Chronicles of Narnia") who plays the dramatized Nicholas Garrigan, a young doctor who sets out on an adventure to make a difference in a small country and ends up counseling one of the most powerful madmen in history. Scottish documentarian Kevin Macdonald directs the film with only a few lapses in directness, which serve this biopic very well. Watching Amin and the young doctor immerse themselves in the shower of power is both frightening and sickening. Macdonald captures this spirit very well thanks mostly to his willingness to let his two leads do their thing.As Amin laughs and tells Garrigan that "You are my closest adviser", I couldn't help but compare to Kathy Bates telling James Caan (in "Misery") that "I'm your number one fan". The evil and insanity is simply chilling. Whitaker is just amazing as he flips the switch from media darling to cold blooded, ruthless murderer ... and then back again. Just a terrific performance and well worth the price of admission - maybe a couple of times! Good for a laugh is the most unique version of Janis Joplin's "Me and Bobby McGee" that you have ever heard ... guaranteed! See this one for a bit of history and the site of a real monster, but also for one of the best film performances ever.
Greetings again from the darkness. Full disclosure: I am not a Trekie and I have a personal rule - any film with Bruce Greenwood sucks. So imagine my pleasant surprise when I actually enjoyed JJ Abrams newest reincarnation of the franchise AND Mr. Greenwood plays a pivotal role! No doubt serious Star Trek fans will be disappointed in the content. Sci-fi details play a minuscule role in this wide-eyed, special effects feast. This film is closer to being "Spider-man" than it is to being a science fiction lesson. As a matter of fact, the black hole creations are a bit humorous to even a science dope like me. Still for two hours you can't take your eyes off the screen ... except when the idiot behind you keeps kicking your seat.Casting is stellar and really helps the film work. Chris Pine (so excellent in Bottle Shock as the goofy son) and Zachary Quinto (Heroes) are terrific as Jim Kirk and Spock, the early years. We see the early head-butting and foundation for the friendship. An unrecognizable Eric Bana plays bad guy Nero and Karl Urban is very good as the serious Bones McCoy. Beautiful Zoe Saldana seems to overact a bit as Uhura and Simon Pegg livens up the film, even though he seems misplaced, as Scotty.Don't miss Winona Ryder as Spock's mom, Jennifer Morrison (House) as Kirk's mom in intergalactic labor and ultra-rich Tyler Perry as the Admiral in charge of the hearing for a cheating Jim Kirk. All nice touches by TV guru, Abrams. Still, by far the most fun, is Leonard Nimoy's time on screen. He brings a majestic presence and a touch of class and history to his role. Very cool.Music is fine, but you have to wait for the end credits to hear the original theme song (written by creator Gene Roddenberry). JJ Abrams has delivered a very watchable and exciting chapter to the Star Trek franchise ... not a simple thing to do in light of some of the past attempts.
Greetings again from the darkness. It's been 20-25 years since I last watched this one, so catching it on the big screen was a real treat. I laughed at almost every scene, as this is the Marx Brothers best combination of quips, puns, political satire and physical sight gags. They are in prime form and for the first and only time, are directed by a real director ... Leo McCarey (also known for An Affair to Remember, and Going My Way). The script is from Bert Kalmar and Harry Ruby, with additional dialogue by the great Arthur Sheekman.Groucho, Harpo, Chico and Zeppo star together for the last time, as Zeppo decided to join brother Gummo on the business side. Groucho plays Rufus T Firefly who is (somehow) named as the new leader of Freedonia, the bankrupt country backed by millionaire widow Mrs Teasdale (played by Margaret Dumont). A childish spat between Firefly and the ambassador of Sylvania lead the two countries to war. Of course, in between, there is a huge musical production sequence and too many funny gags to keep track of.The film is recognized as the first political satire film and was released just 3 years after the death of silent films. Much of the film is spent as commentary on the absurdity of war and ego involved in most conflicts. A couple of the iconic sight gags include the famous "mirror" scene with Groucho and Harpo, and the hilarious "hat scene" with Chico, Harpo and silent film star Edgar Kennedy (as a lemonade vendor). There is also one of the most bizarre early special effects (a tattoo on Harpo's chest) and a Dallas, Texas joke that generated applause from the audience. The film even pokes fun at the Hays Code (morality censorship) with a shot of a pair of men's shoes, a pair of women's shoes, and a set of horseshoes, and then a quick cut to twin beds and an odd sleeping arrangement.The film came out at a time when much cynicism existed toward the Great War and the Depression was still a fact of life in the U.S. Because of that, the film may be easier for us to watch now than it was at the time of its release. Even the Freedonia anthem, which is played several times throughout, is a spoof on the Star Spangled banner with it's only line being "Hail Hail Freedonia, land of the brave and free".Support work is also provided by Louis Calhern, but it's Margaret Dumont who never ceases to amaze. A consistent presence in Marx Brother films, she is the epitome of the "comedy straight man". How she ever played her role seriously given the Marx Brothers hijinks is beyond belief. She even gets to flash her classically trained singing voice, though it provides a flying fruit ending.The Marx Brothers made 13 movies and this was their fifth, and probably best. The five brothers only appeared together on screen one time ... on a TV talk show in 1957. Their vaudeville and stage act continued to be the basis for their films, and was undoubtedly a factor in their incredible comedic timing. While it is understandable that the Marx Brothers humor may not be to every person's taste, it is impossible to ignore their impact on film comedy. Hail Hail Freedonia!!
Greetings again from the darkness. An Australian movie that packs a wallop! Writer/Director David Michod delivers an unsettling look into one family's life of crime and corresponding order of things - the circle of life in the Animal Kingdom. Supposedly based on a true story, this is a tough family that you would not want as neighbors. These aren't Scorcese's smooth operators from "Casino" or "Goodfellas". No, these guys are worse.The matriarch is played chillingly by Jacki Weaver. She is mother or grandmother to the guys (except for one outsider) in the band of crooks. While she messes with your mind through the story, it's not until the final 15 minutes when she really kicks it up a notch and becomes flat out frightening in her power.There are only a couple of actors that most people would recognize. Joel Edgerton plays the outsider in the group, and the one trying to go straight by playing the stock market with his "earnings". The other is Guy Pearce, who plays the detective trying to both solve the cases and rescue young Josh, played by newcomer James Frecheville.Not only is this the type of story that sucks you in, it is a reminder of just how distracting movie stars can be a to film. The lack of stars allows us to really be absorbed into this family, or better, this world of crime, deceit, corruption and paranoia. There is not a single superstar who appears - one who can capitalize on his film history of characters and immediately generate recognition. Here, the viewer must get to know an entire family for who and what they are. This is powerful stuff for a film lover.The winner for best psychopath is Ben Mendelsohn as Pope. His dead eyes will scare you. His demeanor will scare you. His actions will disgust you. There are two lines in the film that help us make sense of what occurs. Early on, the narrator tells us that "all crooks come undone" at some point. Later, the detective (Pearce) tells us that in the Animal Kingdom, you are either weak or strong. The lines seems pretty clear.The focus of the film is on Josh (Frecheville) who gets plopped into this family of criminals after his mom dies of an overdose and he calls his grandmother (Weaver). Josh spends the rest of the film trying to blend in while staying clean. Of course, even his stoic mask doesn't save him from the path of destruction created by Pope.In the end, the film is about survival, adaptation and defining what really defines strong and weak, good and bad. If you enjoy powerful crime thrillers, this one is worth checking out ... and be appreciative for the lack of Hollywood star power. That's part of why it works!
Greetings again from the darkness. Moments after Bill Murray's Vincent cracks a rare on screen "Chico and the Man" reference, we get our first glimpse of scrawny Oliver (newcomer Jaeden Lieberher), and we immediately know where this story is headed. The fact that we never lose interest is thanks to Mr. Murray, the rest of the cast and writer/director Theodore Melfi (his first feature film).Though this is ultra-predictable and even strains credulity, we nonetheless connect to Murray's Vincent - a grumpy, drunken, slobby, chain-smoker who has a bond with a pregnant Russian prostitute/stripper. Melissa McCarthy plays Oliver's mom Maggie, who has separated from her philandering husband, and is intent on making a life for her son. It's here where it should be noted that Ms. McCarthy plays the role mostly straight - none of her usual funny-fat moments. Instead, she excels in a scene with an emotional dump on Oliver's principal and teacher (a standout Chris O'Dowd).Surprisingly, this could even be described as a message movie. Vincent quickly notices that Oliver is lacking street smarts and sets out to correct this. The story reminds us that all people are multi-faceted. The good have their rough edges, and the "bad" likely have a back-story and some redeeming value. Vincent is so cantankerous that it takes a kid as appealing as Oliver to balance the story. Even knowing a feel good ending is coming, we as viewers don't mind being dragged through the sap.Murray is outstanding, and if the script had a bit more heft, he would probably garner some Oscar consideration. McCarthy deserves notice for going against type, and Naomi Watts flashes some real comedic timing (maybe the biggest surprise of all). O'Dowd has some of the best one-liners in the film, and shows again that he is immensely talented. Terrence Howard seems a bit out of place as a loan shark, but he has limited screen time, as does Ann Dowd as the nursing home director.Prepare for the feel-bad-then-good ride, culminating in a school auditorium event that reunites the key characters, and allows the child actor to draw a tear or two from the audience. Good times that end with classic Murray over the closing credits.
Greetings again from the darkness. Director Brian DePalma continues to be a legend in his own mind. Although there are some effective individual scenes and performances, the scattershot and sometimes ludicrous script is at times a maze with no end. As with most DePalma films, there are at least a half dozen masterful shots that almost make it worthwhile.This is the film version of James Ellroy's (the FAR superior "L.A. Confidential") fictionalized novel based on the 1947 grisly murder of actress wanna-be Elizabeth Short (a very effective Mia Kirshner). Attempting to be a pulp detective thriller in the vein of Raymond Chandler it falls short mostly due to the script (get it? it's a lousy script) but also due to poor casting of the lead. Josh Hartnett is a pleasure for women to look at, but is so much more effective in limited exposure (see "Sin City"). His expressionless face and vapid looks just don't work in a role that requires the depth of this one. Aaron Eckhart (so great in this year's "Thank You For Smoking") is given a promising part that turns to pure crap ... and I am not even sure how it happened. Eckhart really has the look of a 1940's detective, but Hartnett mostly looks like a male model playing dress up.The usually excellent Scarlett Johansson remain fine to look at, but just doesn't pull off the odd character of Kay Lake (a tip of the cap to Veronica). By far the character with the most potential and interest is Hilary Swank, who for some reason is cast as an Elizabeth Short look-alike, even though the only resemblance is dark hair. Of course, a weak script always misses opportunity and this one teases us with Swank's character but never delivers. Rose McGowan has an interesting 4 minute scene and it is cool to see DePalma favorite William Finley in a key (but brief) role.The best parts of the film are the endless stream of beautiful 1940's cars, trucks and motorcycles, the costumes, the background trumpet music, the re-enactment of Elizabeth Short's screen test (replete with DePalma voice over) and one of the oddest families this side of the Royal Tennenbaums (Swank's mom, dad and sis).There are just too many plots happening at once (and I live for multiple plot lines!). None are fully developed, most make little sense and some are just downright laughable. I had the feeling I was watching a remake, but of course, no studio would green light a remake of something this messed up.
Greetings again from the darkness. Writer/Director Wayne Kramer offers up a jumbled mess disguised as a deep, multi-layered commentary on corruption, immigration and freedom of speech. Not near the level of "Crash", it was apparently Mr. Kramer's intention to generate sympathy for the struggles of illegal aliens in this country.Instead of sympathy, I mostly felt ambivalence. Alice Eve plays a wannabe actress from Australia who is willing to sell her body to Ray Liotta for a ticket to this country, while Jim Sturgess attempts to turn his con man role into a good guy because he can sing and smirk.Harrison Ford plays the agent with a heart, who takes much grief from his hardened co-agents as he attempts to save the world, one illegal at a time. His most recent attempt is played by Alice Braga, who tearfully pleads Ford to save her son ... as she is being shipped back to Mexico. The only somewhat interesting story is the Iranian family, whose teenage daughter takes freedom of speech a bit too far. At least this segment raises some good questions. The weakest story is that of Ford's partner played by Cliff Curtis. The whole family matriarch thing is overblown and ludicrous.Not much to say about this movie. If it was supposed to deliver a message, it failed miserably. If it is supposed to raise questions and awareness, it is only minutely successful. Mr. Kramer's 2003 film "The Cooler" was much more interesting.
Greetings again from the darkness. Sometimes being creative and clever just isn't enough. Writer/director Wes Anderson has a track record of extremely creative projects. Some work very well (Royal Tenenbaums, Rushmore) while others fall just short of the mark (Life Aquatic, Darjeeling Limited). When Mr. Anderson hooks up with writer Noah Baumbach (Squid and the Whale) to take on a Roald Dahl (Charlie and the Chocolate Factory) story, a movie lover can't help but get very excited! The look of the film is very unusual and "fantastic" in its own right. The fur or coats of the animals is pretty amazing and even the expressive faces are new to the big screen. What really fell short for me was the voice acting of some very impressive folks. George Clooney, Meryl Streep, Jason Schwartzman and Bill Murray all fall a bit flat and just play it too cool ... dare I say it ... they were all a bit boring! Willem Dafoe as the rat was really the only one who brought any life to his role.So while I absolutely love the look of the film and the characters, I was quite disappointed in the pace and passion of the story and the manner in which it's acted. It is probably too slow for both kids and adults, so I am not sure who the audience will be ... other than film technicians who will appreciate the look.
Greetings again from the darkness. Celebrating 50 years on film for Ian Fleming's creation, we get the 23rd official James Bond movie. Many critics are hailing it as the best one yet, though having seen all in the series, it is difficult to understand a proper form of comparison. The Connery run varies significantly from the Roger Moore period, and though Pierce Brosnan brought a touch of seriousness back to the role, it wasn't until Daniel Craig that the character and series took on an ultra-intense structure. Clear influences are seen in Christopher Nolan's Batman trilogy, as well as the Bourne series.This latest entry has some distinct advantages. Most importantly, Sam Mendes in the director's chair brings a love and understanding of the Bond template, but the skills to deliver both top notch action sequences as well as realistic human drama. His background includes such fine films as American Beauty and Road To Perdition. Mendes brought on famed Director of Photography Roger Deakins (9 Oscar nominations) who delivers a look and feel superior to any previous Bond film. Also, the villain plays a key role in determining the strength of all Bond films. Here, Javier Bardem offers up a megalomaniac bent on revenge, and his unusual approach immediately vaults his Silva into one of the top 5 all time Bond villains.Of course, none of that matters without a strong Bond, and it is quite clear that Daniel Craig has made the role his own. This particular script from series vets Neal Purvis, Robert Wade, and John Logan demands some real acting as Bond faces his mortality as well as his childhood roots. These issues combined with the physical demands of the action and the ability to toss in a few zingers, make Mr. Craig a nice fit for the tailored suits ... and the classic Aston Martin.It wouldn't be Bond without the Bond "women", and while there isn't much familiarity of Berenice Marlohe, her Severine is interesting enough to capture our attention ... even with Komodo Dragons hovering nearby. We also get Naomie Harris as Field Agent Eve, and the argument can be made that she is weakest link in the film. Surprisingly, the real Bond woman this time is M, played once again by the great Judi Dench. Much of the story revolves around her and there is quite a bit of ageism involved. Experience does matter ... unless you are speaking of the new Q. Played with fascinating geekery by Ben Whishaw, the museum scene with Q and Bond is one for the ages.The usual global jet-setting is on full display with Istanbul, London, Macau, Shanghai and the Scottish Highlands. The traditional opening action sequence finds Bond racing across Turkish rooftops on a motorcycle, while wearing a beautifully tailored suit. These are the same rooftops on display in Taken 2, but it's much more fun here. Then, as if motorcycles on the roof and through the Grand Bazaar of Turkey aren't enough, we find Bond fighting atop a fast moving train ... well, until M makes a business decision that quickly changes the arc of the story.When Bond finally meets Silva (Bardem), it is on the deserted Hashima Island. We quickly learn that Silva is no ordinary criminal and definitely not one to just sit and chat. His quest for revenge adds a personal touch. His personality and demeanor and background add elements previously missing from Bond films. It's no surprise that the film's best sequence involves Bond and Silva together and the tradition of the villain explaining what's ruffled his feathers.The climax of the film occurs on the hardscape of Scotland and forces Bond to come to terms with his past. There are also plenty of parental issues thanks to M and the caretaker played by Albert Finney. The personal forces at work in the script are more developed than in other Bond films, but we definitely don't get cheated on explosions, gun play and hand to hand combat.As always, music plays a vital role. Adele sings the opening title track and it plays over an unusual opening credits graphical sequence - somewhat bleaker than we are accustomed to, but no less dramatic. Also, Thomas Newman's score is excellent and incorporates Monty Norman's iconic Bond themes (though not often enough for my tastes).This latest Bond film is a fine bounce back after the disappointing Quantum of Solace, and it may be the best made of all films. The idea of cyber-terrorism is very timely and a reminder that not all bad guys are trying to take over the world. Some just need revenge. Determining if it is the "best" Bond ever will be your call.
Greetings again from the darkness. It would be unfair to analyze, critique or compare this to any "normal" movie. Being somewhat limited in scope by the source material, director Michael Bay, delivers what the fans want ... full scale noise and all-out action.While he admitted that part two of this trilogy was lacking much, it appears his efforts to improve part three come not from script improvement, but rather by tossing in some familiar Hollywood faces: John Malkovich, Frances McDormand, Patrick Dempsey and Ken Jeong. Oh, and we also get Bill O'Reilly, an odd sequence with legendary Apollo 11 astronaut Buzz Aldrin, and the best surprise - Leonard Nimoy voicing Sentinel Prime.Most of the same key players are back: Shia LaBeouf as Sam (friend to Optimus Prime), John Turturro (cashed in on his 10 min of fame), Josh Duhamel and Tyrese Gibson as soldiers, and Kevin Dunn and Julie White as Sam's parents in a couple of throw away scenes that cost much less than the CGI that dominates the movie.While I remain an avid opponent to 3-D, this film offers a few of the best uses since Avatar. Unfortunately the dimmed coloring offset the benefits and continue to annoy me. Just remove your glasses periodically and you can easily see how much brighter the colors are without the 3-D muting. Such a shame.Michael Bay knows explosions. And there are no shortage on display here. We get plenty of rock 'em sock 'em action and the military is on full display, especially with some pretty cool skydiving tactics. Heck, we even get Frances McDormand as a power-hungry bureaucrat. For those who know Chicago, the familiar sights abound. The Wrigley Building plays a vital role, though it still bothers me a bit to see a skyscraper destroyed. I will say the tilted office is not close to the rotating hallway of Inception, though the effort is appreciated.The battle of the robots is what people pay to see and the 40 plus minute final battle is something to behold, even if it drags on entirely too long. And I can't fail to mention that the lack of presence of Megan Fox' character is explained a couple of times as having "dumped" Sam. Sam has rebounded nicely with Carly, played by supermodel Rosie Huntington-Whiteley, who looks just fine in a $200,000 Mercedes, a slim white dress or conversing with an injured villainous robot. Yes, one must maintain a sense of humor during the film.The use of slo-motion, the ties to the space program, and the connection to Chernobyl are all a bit heavy-handed, but this is a Transformers movie, not a documentary. And the actual transformation of these guys is still one of the coolest on screen moments you can find ... even if the story and dialogue will have you desperate for brain resuscitation when the movie finally ends.
Greetings again from the darkness. No question this is a remarkable story that deserves to be told. Mega-star Denzel Washington teams up with Queen of the Universe, Oprah Winfrey, to bring us a fictionalized account of a very true and inspiring story. Sure, it has a touch of "Remember the Titans" and just about every other feel good underdog sports story, but what makes this one a bit different is that it is based on words and education, not athletic ability.Based in the Jim Crow south, Melvin Tolson drives his team of debaters to heights never before reached by a black college debate team. The man had his flaws (a suspected communist, socialist and successful union organizer) there is no questioning his ability to inspire his team to reach down and find the passion to compete against far more established teams (white and black). The three keys to his team were Henry Lowe (played well by Nate Parker), Samantha Booke (former child actress Jurnee Smollett) and 14 yr old James Farmer, Jr. (played with zeal by Denzel Whitaker). This team fights and struggles and pulls together just like any other championship team. Again, the difference is that their battles are done with the mind ... which is remarkable given the times.Denzel tackles the role of Tolson and also directs his second feature ("Antone Fisher"). A better actor than director, he still does an adequate job of capturing the feel of the times ... though there is no shortage of clichés and stereotypes. John Heard plays the "cracker" Sheriff just looking for any way to keep the black man down. Forest Whitaker is again outstanding, this time as Dr. James Farmer, Sr., whose brilliant mind and moral standards set the tone for his prodigy son.The screenplay by Robert Eisele could have benefited by losing the sappy and predictable love story between Lowe and Booke, and the actual debates don't provide near the suspense and tension that the "real life" segments do, but he does capture the added stress of being an educated black in the 1930's.The enduring message from this group of amazing students is that education is the road to freedom. That message is just as strong today as it was 70 years ago and it is a message that does not discriminate based on color.
Greetings again from the darkness. No question the time was right for this film to be made. What a shame it was destroyed by a hack filmmaker. While watching the first 90 minutes or so, I kept thinking WHAT IF a legitimate director had taken this on ... even Oliver Stone! Instead Emilio Estevez slams us with at least 16 different story lines ... so many that it puts The Love Boat to shame! The best parts of the film are the inclusion of real clips of Robert Kennedy giving speeches or out amongst the people who carried so much hope for his vision for our country. I don't believe we have ever really recovered politically or emotionally from his death almost 40 years ago. His story is powerful and heartfelt and did not need the made-for-TV look that Mr. Estevez was inspired to deliver.The films two best performances (by far) are Sharon Stone and budding superstar Freddie Rodriquez. Although Ms. Stone's hair and make-up are a bit on the wild side (but in keeping with a 1960's hairdresser), her acting is understated, subtle and full of emotion as she sees her world crumbling. Mr. Rodriguez, on the other hand, is explosive and charismatic as the baseball loving, good-hearted "present and future king" who is coming to grips with the new social order.The only other story line even a little interesting is semi-retired doorman Anthony Hopkins holding court in the lobby with the great Harry Belafonte. Most of the other scenes and sub-plots are pointless and long ... especially the acid trip involving two campaign workers (Shia LeBeouf and Brian Geraghty) and their stereotypical hippie/dealer (Ashton Kutcher).Just for fun ... the worst performances are a mannequin-like Elijah Wood (much more suited to Frodo than a draft dodger), an over the top Demi Moore, the usually great William H. Macy (who somehow gets to sleep with both Heather Graham AND Sharon Stone!! Does that make sense?), director Emilio as the hen-pecked man of few words and of course, the always miserable to watch Helen Hunt. This leaves out many other "star" performances, but no one will care once word of mouth hits on the film.In fairness, the last 15 minutes actually capture the chaos of the mess Sirhan Sirhan created that night at the Ambassador. Staged mayhem does not come close to matching the real news clips that are included, but it does work to get the emotion of the moment across. Make sure to stay for the credits to see the photographic slide show of Robert Kennedy as both politician and family man ... and the last great hope of a country. Also special mention to Aretha Franklin and Mary J Blige for terrific vocals on the "new" song on the soundtrack.
Greetings again from the darkness. Combine a TV director and a screenplay from a first timer and usually one of two things happen: magic or mess. This is just a mess. Very little suspense and the look and feel of an episode of "24".A very good cast with ridiculous material and so many just plain stupid and unbelievable things happening that I can only assume this was written with junior high kids as the target audience. After the third segment, I felt a twinge of dread every time that 11:59 clock popped up in the bottom right hand corner of the screen. Compare that to the air of anxiety as Phil Conners alarm clock flips in "Groundhog Day".I won't list every ridiculous moment, but let's just focus on Dennis Quaid's character. That guy is involved in two car wrecks, either of which would have sent him to the hospital and would have left his car undriveable ... especially considering it is little more than a toy car! The second one is truly beyond belief. After being slammed into a building by a large truck, he kicks out the windshield and chases down the bad guys. Oh yeah, he does have a scratch on his cheek. Please.William Hurt and Forest Whitaker somehow maintain their dignity despite this material, but Matthew Fox, Bruce McGill and Sigourney Weaver certainly don't. They deserve better, as do Edgar Ramirez and Zoe Saldana.It is pretty rare that I can't find something in a movie that makes it worthwhile, but this one is just a high dollar film project with no heart, soul or spirit.
Greetings again from the darkness. You should know that as serious as I am about movies, I am perfectly comfortable accepting the Mission Impossible franchise for what it is ... a thrilling roller coaster ride of breathtaking stunts, outlandish missions, stunning visuals, bone-jarring fights, and above all else, Tom Cruise. Mr. Cruise is back in his element as Agent Ethan Hunt ... equal parts sleuth, cage fighter and super hero.This is the fourth installment of the re-boot which began in 1996. Cruise was in his mid-30's then, and is pushing 50 now. In remarkable physical condition, he seems to take great pride in his ability to pull off these fantastic stunts. However, he tops them all here as he hangs from the world's tallest building - Burj Khalifa in Dubai. This is one of the most impressive action stunt sequences ever seen, with multiple camera angles that will definitely jar your senses if you are the least bit sensitive to heights. This alone is worth the price of admission.No need to go into much detail as the plot/mission is as ridiculous as the others in the franchise. Ethan's team is made up of computer geek and walking one-liner Simon Pegg as Benji; Paula Patton (Precious) as Jane (must have a pretty woman); and Jeremy Renner (The Hurt Locker) as Brandt, the world's most dangerous "analyst". This team is chasing after Michael Nyqvist (Swedish version of The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo), who plays Hendricks ... a European loony trying to nuke the world for no apparent reason. To get to Hendricks, the team must go through a filthy rich playboy played by Amil Kapoor (Slumdog Millionaire) and a trained assassin played by Lea Seydoux (Midnight in Paris).This latest installment is directed by Brad Bird, straight from Pixar via Ratatouille and The Incredibles, both of which prepared him for this first live action thriller. With an eye for action sequences and a feel for lapses in dialogue, Mr. Bird's first live action outing is quite impressive. Plus, he included an endless stream of gadgets, technology, fight scenes and crazy stunts. My only real complaint is that the iconic Lalo Schifrin theme song never really cuts loose like it should. Still, if you liked the first three, you will like this one.
Greetings again from the darkness. One of the great things about seeing as many movies as I do is getting to hear about and read the multitude of opinions. Sometimes, as with this film, I am shocked at the difference between what I saw and what others did. Currently at a 7.5 IMDb rating, I struggled to get to a 5. I found the film pretentious, boring and predictable.Will Smith and director Gabriele Muccino (The Pursuit of Happiness) have joined forces again in an attempt to yank on our emotional heartstrings. There is, however, a big difference between a true story of persistence and a hokey, bleak fairy tale with poor execution. Trying to capture some of the mystique that M Night Shymalayan enjoys, the filmmakers encouraged critics to not give away the "twists". After seeing the film, I am perplexed as to what secret to keep. After 5 minutes, there was no doubt in my mind where this was heading.Mega star Will Smith can deliver the box office, so I am sure this will make money. Despite the efforts of Rosario Dawson and Woody Harrelson, and the circus trick of casting Conner Cruise (with no lines), this one is altogether empty and without soul. Not an easy thing to be with references to the great Minnie Ripperton and Herman's Hermits.
Greetings again from the darkness. Was this supposed to be an inside joke? When the line is spoken in the film, I laughed out loud. "Fiction must make sense". Coming from a movie so preposterous as this one just seemed perfect.Clive Owen is becoming Kurt Russell ... an actor I like in a bunch of movies that I don't like. Time for a new agent Mr. Owen. Looks like two of his next 3 are sequels (Inside Man and Sin City). The other (with Julia Roberts) looks bloody awful in the trailer.Actually this is a very nice film to look at, just don't waste any energy on the story about an international bank who brokers arms deals between countries. And why was a NYC district attorney involved ... never mind. Naomi Watts has plenty of solid movie credits but she is totally out of place here.I will admit the Guggenheim museum scenes were actually fun to watch, though again, ridiculous in nature. Just seems to be the time of year for ridiculous films trying to cash in on the dearth of decent releases.
Greetings again from the darkness. Don't go to this movie expecting even a moment of joy, happiness or humor. It is filled with grief, sorrow, guilt and sadness. Based on the short story "So Much Water So Close to Home" by Raymond Carver, director Ray Lawrence presents an expose and the various ways of coping and co-existing.Very well acted by the always solid Gabriel Byrne and Laura Linney, the real cast standout is Eva Lazzaro as young Caylin-Calandria, whose experiments with death are the spookiest part of the story. My first reaction to young Ms. Lazzaro was that she would be a perfect sister to Damien in "The Omen", and then I see she was in a Stephen King miniseries last year ... perfect. Another fine performance was provided by Deborrah-Lee Furnessm Caylin's grandmother who is now raising her after guess what??? ... a death in the family.The story centers around a poor decision by a group of guys out for a weekend fishing trip and escalates into the depths of gloom upon their return. First of all, can anyone be surprised that a group of guys out fishing and drinking have their judgment clouded? But most of the film is based on the relationships, or lack thereof, of the families and friends.A note to Laura Linney: I have always been a huge fan of your work and talent. You are an amazing actress. But PLEASE ... step out of the bitter, near-psychotic, emotionally-beaten woman roles. You have that one pegged, but we want to see you do something else. Lighter or Darker, it doesn't matter ... just something else!!
Greetings again from the darkness. Very pleasant surprise from director Peter Segal ("Anger Management") in what is much more than a tribute to the great TV series. This is a terrific combination of comedy and action and will be fun for those who aren't even familiar with the original ... but even more fun for those who are! Steve Carrel is perfect as Agent 86 Maxwell Smart, a role made infamous by the late great Don Adams. Few comics today can deliver the straight punch line better than Carrel. Anne Hathaway is very good as Agent 99, a role Barbara Feldon was born to play. Would have liked to have seen a cameo from Feldon. Alan Arkin steps in as CONTROL chief for the late, great Edward Platt, who died much too soon. Terence Stamp is well cast as the evil leader of KAOS and the supporting cast includes David Koechner, Dwayne Johnson, Bill Murray and James Caan as the President. Patrick Warburton has an effective scene as Hymie, the first CONTROL robot agent ... played with panache in the series by the great Dick Gautier. Interesting to note that Caan also appeared in a couple of shows of the TV series, forty years ago.What really sets this one apart and allows it to stand on its own are two things. The action scenes and gadgets are actually pretty cool and the comedy writing is top notch. Great to see the red Sunbeam make an appearance and I was very anxious to see how the shoe phone was worked in. Speaking of worked in ... don't miss Bernie Kopell as the angry driver in a quick scene. We all remember his fine work from the TV series. Still, despite all the winks and tips of the cap to the original, what is most impressive is that Carell's and Hathaway's team stand on their own and make for quality action/comedy. Plus, it's still a great theme song. Mel Brooks and Buck Henry should be very proud ... their creation lives on!
Greetings again from the darkness. Not a film in the traditional sense and not a documentary by true definition, it mixes the two into an absorbing, addictive 128 minutes.Over the years, I have often questioned the educational system and why both teachers and students are so frustrated. Here we get an inside look at both sides and it still leaves me wondering "why?". Why do otherwise intelligent people commit to becoming teachers? Why do we insist on teaching formats that are miserable for both teacher and student? Why do so many parents blame the school and so few take an active, supportive role? This is the story of Francois Begaudeau, who also wrote the book upon which director Laurent Cantet's film is based.Begaudeau is a junior high teacher in a working class, multi-ethnic Paris school where the teachers have resigned themselves to the fact that most of the students just don't care to learn. We get an incredible amount of classroom time showing how the melting pot of cultures has so much to offer, yet seems impossible to tap into.Also fascinating are the teacher meetings and discussions that occur away from the students. We see no joy in these teachers and most seem just beaten down. The film offers no solutions, it strictly acts as a peek inside the institution.While we are left to our own accord to pick sides or dream of alternatives, I continue to ask the same "why" questions over and over.
Greetings again from the darkness. Kristen Wiig, Bill Hader, Ty Burrell and Luke Wilson ... prepare yourself for 90 minutes of side-splitting laughter! OK, well you can prepare all you want, but you should know that while there are some funny moments, this is one of the bleakest films of the year. Bleak as in achingly painful to watch at times due to the emotional pain most every character experiences.Hopefully no one stopped reading after "side-splitting laughter" because here is a sampling of thematic elements covered in the film: attempted suicide, suicide of a parent, adultery, sexual abuse of a minor, rampant lying, depression, horrific parenting, drug use, animal cruelty.If Bill Hader and Kristen Wiig of SNL fame don't spring to mind when considering those elements, please keep an open mind. Both are extremely good (and believable) in their roles as twins estranged for a decade, forced back together after a near tragedy. See, after a miserable childhood, their time apart has prevented both from establishing a strong personal relationship with anyone else. Hader plays a self-professed "gay cliché", while Wiig is pretending to have the perfect suburban life with her gung-ho, always "up", good guy husband (Luke Wilson).The film's best humor is produced in small moments thanks to the connection between Wiig and Hader. It's definitely not in the almost shameful attempts at crowd-pleasing offered in the SNL-ish scenes of lip-synching to Starship, and over-indulging on Nitrous Oxide at the dental office.Real emotional turmoil exists in the scenes between Hader and Ty Burrell, and the unnecessary and inexplicable reunion between Hader, Wiig and their mother (Joanna Gleason). Burrell, known for his outstanding "Modern Family" role, is intriguing as a dramatic actor. Looking forward to more of this from him.The script, co-written by director Craig Johnson and Mark Heyman, really does capture some poignant and dramatic moments, and certainly benefits from the extremely talented cast. Just don't expect that side-splitting laughter ... unless you are susceptible to lip-synching and/or nitrous oxide.
Greetings again from the darkness. On the road to self-discovery, Christopher McCandless meets many interesting people. The film is kind of a cross between "Forrest Gump" and "Harold and Maude". Based on the true story of McCandless and his attempt to drop out of society, live as one with nature and discover his soul. He takes much of his guidance from the writings of Tolstoy, Thoreau and Jack London.The film grabs you, but you can't really be sure why. It must have something to do with all of us carrying that buried desire to really find ourselves. Problem is, we are too caught up in living life every day to do something so selfish.Emile Hirsch (the new "next big thing") is outstanding in the lead role. We like him and find ourselves pulling for him. He is a positive influence on those he meets, although we can't be sure if the real Chris McC was this influential. Still it is fascinating to travel with him as he truly gets naked to the world.Supporting cast is fine, though Marcia Gay Harden and William Hurt are given little to do. Always nice to see Jena Malone on screen (here as Chris' sister). Catherine Keener and Brian Dierker are a nice touch as the hippie couple who take Chris McC under their wing ... or is it vice versa? Vince Vaughn has a brief role as a "great man". Kristen Stewart plays a 16 yr old with a nice voice, short shorts and a crush on Chris. The best supporting role goes to the great Hal Holbrook as the lonely guy who teaches and learns in his stint with Chris.Director Sean Penn (yes, the greatest American actor) delivers wonderful visuals and plenty of opportunity for head scratching and soul searching. My only fault with the film is my serious doubt that this guy was such moral giant and life teacher at age 23. Heck with those skills, he could have been better than Dr. Phil!! Must mention the bevy of terrific Eddie Vedder ballads ... his best stuff in years.
Greetings again from the darkness. Don't let the hype or the fear of just another "boxing" movie keep you from this one. Yes, it is based on the true story of "Irish" Micky Ward, a boxer from Lowell, Massachusetts, but this is every bit as much a story of family and commitment and tenacity as any story you know.Directed by David O Russell (I Heart Huckabees), the film does a terrific job of dumping us right smack into this blue collar community and this oh-so-colorful family. Mark Wahlberg stars as Micky Ward, the younger brother of former boxer Dicky Ecklund (a no-holds-barred Christian Bale). Ecklund lived for years off his fight against Sugar Ray Leonard, where Leonard either was knocked down or slipped down. Either way, Dicky is as close to a local legend as it gets. In the mid-80's, younger brother Micky joined the fight game - with Dicky as his trainer and his mother (Melissa Leo) as his manager.As realistic and believable as the boxing is in the film, the real trick was in presenting Micky's family. The first impression of his mother and gaggle of sisters is that it's a cartoonish presentation. In fact, it's very realistic! When local bartender Charlene (Amy Adams)becomes involved with Micky, she tries to set him straight on exactly what his family is doing to his career.Oh, did I mention that Dicky was a crackhead? Did I mention that his mother pushed him into fights against upper weight classes because she needed the money? Did I mention that Micky tries to remain loyal to the family ... even to the extent of nearly costing him a shot at a legitimate career? There are some real emotions going on all over this well-paced film. Thanks to the Amy Adams character, we really get to see how an "outsider" views the family, and vice versa. It's not a pretty sight! I can't say enough about Bale's performance as Dicky. He has the movement and gait of both a boxer and a crackhead. His mannerisms mirror that of the real Dicky, as seen over the ending credits. This is crazy good acting. Melissa Leo is fast becoming the hardest working actress in Hollywood. This is the third film I have seen her in this year! Her performance, when combined with Jacki Weaver in Animal Kingdom, really create some nightmares for kids with creepy mothers! Amy Adams is totally convincing as the pretty, tough love interest and guiding light for Micky. As for Wahlberg, he is quite convincing as a boxer. His physicality is without question. The only thing I didn't like was the couple of times he slipped back into his mumbling, whiny persona. Luckily that effect was minimal.This is a film I would recommend to most. The only word of caution is the language is quite realistic for working class Lowell, Mass. In other words, the "F" word is utilized in every conceivable manner throughout. It's just part of the community fabric. Also, be warned that the boxing is also quite realistic ... it's a violent sport and that comes across very well. I loved how the boxing matches were filmed digitally for effect. Just a wonderfully well made film with terrific performances ... and actually quite uplifting!
Greetings again from the darkness. Based on Jamey Reidy's book "Hard Sell: The Evolution of a Viagra Salesman", the film bounces around between rom-com, disease-drama and an editorial on the medical profession and drug companies. The single reason to watch the mashed-up film is the performance of Anne Hathaway, who surprisingly has developed into an excellent actress.Jake Gyllenhaal plays a hot shot, charming, womanizing, always "on" pharmaceutical rep who will stop at nothing to eclipse his quota and achieve his promotion to Chicago, the promised land for Pfizer. Struggling a bit to make a name for himself selling Zoloft, Jake's destiny seems pre-disposed when Pfizer introduces Viagra. Talk about a pitch in the batter's wheelhouse! However, as so often happens in life, a speed bump appears. The best laid plans ...When Jake's character meets Anne's character (Maggie), things change for both of them - despite the less than perfect introductory scenario. Turns out, her character suffers from Stage One Parkinson's, while he is a Stage Four jerk. Actually, that makes for the perfect couple ... for a short while. You can guess what happens.When the film transitions from rom-com to heavy handed drama, many of the best scenes occur, but overall the movie suffers. The scene at the un-convention for Parkinson's patients is undoubtedly the film's best. Furthermore, when Jake meets the husband of a Stage Four Parkinson's sufferer, he gets the one minute down and dirty along with the advice to just walk away.Rarely has a love story had so many moments of the couple trying so hard to push the other away. Speaking of "Love Story" (my attempt at a smooth transition), it is important to note that despite the drama and dark tones, the film never delivers the expected sobbing out loud moment. It actually does a terrific job of treating the disease with respect and directness. A nice change for Hollywood.Directed by Edward Zwick (Blood Diamond), the film rests squarely on the shoulders of Ms. Hathaway, who doesn't disappoint. Supporting work is minimal and not overly effective. That includes Gabriel Macht (phamaceutical competitor), Hank Azaria (the only doctor who needs help with women), Judy Greer (the eager office assistant), Oliver Platt (Jake's boss in the most confusing role in the film), and Josh Gad (in the Jonah Hill knock-off role), plus George Segal and Jill Clayburgh as Jake's parents. A sad note: Ms. Clayburgh died on November 5th this year. She had a varied and important Hollywood career.What's odd about this film is that I have actually many good things to say about it despite my disappointment. I love some of the fast quips from the early part. The points made against drug companies, insurance companies and the medical profession are spot on (though a bit obvious). The serious portion of the program is handled with dignity and pulls no cheap punches. Much of it seemed accurate and real. But for whatever reason, the film is just not very cohesive and comes across as choppy ... a series of scenes, rather than a full story. That said, it's worth seeing for the continued growth of Anne Hathaway as an actress.
Greetings again from the darkness. Critics seem to love it, while movie goers seem to be left grasping for meaning. This is director Paul Thomas Anderson's sixth film, and could be either his best or worst, depending on your tastes. What is clear, however, is that all the hoopla over this being an expose' of Scientology was for nothing. In fact, the cult/religion in the film plays second fiddle to a mentally unstable drifter who you will find no real interest in following (yet unable to take your eyes off).On the plus side, there are three terrific performances in the film. Joaquin Phoenix delivers a frightening, off beat character named Freddie Quell. Freddie suffers from PTSD after WWII and is some kind of freaky genius when it comes to moonshine and hooch. We see him utilize missile fuel, paint thinner, photographic chemicals, coconuts and Lysol. Never accept a drink from Freddie. Philip Seymour Hoffman is pure charisma and power as Lancaster Dodd, the character supposedly modeled on L Ron Hubbard, the writer and (some would say) con man who developed Scientology through Dianetics. Hoffman is fascinating to watch and totally believable as a guy who draws in the suckers. His staunchest follower is his ice queen wife played with quiet intensity by Amy Adams. This is quite a different role for her and she really delivers the goods.Joaquin Phoenix deserves a few words. His physicality here approaches deformity and his sexual perversion is clear early on thanks to a beach scene. Phoenix looks emaciated, and somehow inverts his shoulders and wears a constant grimace that would make Michael Shannon proud. Much of his performance reminded me of a young Marlon Brando ... high praise indeed.Though Scientology is never mentioned, the "processing" demonstrated certainly fits right in with the early methods. Still, the weakness of the movie stems from the story. Following Freddie leaves a gaping hole in substance. There's just not much to this broken man. On the other hand, we constantly want to know more about The Master, Lancaster Dodd.Technically, it's a stunning and beautiful movie. From an entertainment perspective, the second half might be downright boring and uninteresting. If not for the Oscar worthy performances and the stellar camera work and interesting camera angles, even more people probably would have walked out during the film. Jonny Greenwood is back (There Will Be Blood) with Anderson, and again delivers the perfect accompaniment. With some script work, this could have been a truly great film. Instead, we get ho-hum from a true auteur. (www.MovieReviewsFromTheDark.wordpress.com)
Greetings again from the darkness. It's always fun to take a fresh look at a cult favorite, especially after a quarter century since initial release. Near Dark is best known as Kathryn Bigelow's first solo directorial effort ... yes, the Oscar winning director of The Hurt Locker (plus Point Blank and Zero Dark Thirty). But that's not why this one has a loyal following. It's actually a very stylish vampire/road trip that focuses on family. And it's one of the very few vampire movies where the word "vampire" is never uttered.Ms. Bigelow co-wrote the screenplay with Eric Red, who also wrote The Hitcher. Similarities abound, yet this one stands on its own thanks to the photography and the performances. We can't help but notice three main actors come directly from James Cameron's Aliens ... Bill Paxton, Lance Henrickson, and Jenette Goldstein. Of course, Mr. Cameron and Ms. Bigelow were in a relationship that resulted in marriage (and later ended in divorce). Near Dark lost at the box office to another vampire movie released at the same time, The Lost Boys. Having its production company go out of business provided no marketing help and Near Dark has since experienced a rabid following thanks to cable, DVD and midnight showings.The basic story has a young local (rural Oklahoma) boy (Adrian Pasdar, who is married to one of the Dixie Chicks in real life) meeting a stranger in town (Jenny Wright, who played Rob Lowe's wife in St Elmo's Fire). Their initial sparks lead to necking .. get it? Next thing we know he is being dragged into a runaway Winnebago by Paxton, Henrickson, Goldstein, Wright and Joshua John Miller. We soon enough figure out it's a traveling troupe of vampires and Caleb (the young local boy) is in big trouble.There are a couple of well known/classic scenes: the sequence in the bar where we really get to see the personalities of each of this group, and the bungalow shootout where the bullet holes in the walls allow the deadly rays of sunshine to wreak havoc with the bloodsucking clan. Additionally, you will note some beautiful shots that confirm Ms. Bigelow's background as an artist - the backlit shot of the group in the fog, and Caleb's horse riding scene.For those accustomed to seeing the "cool" Bill Paxton, they will be surprised at his frenetic wild man act. You might also recall his stint in the The Terminator as one of the blue-haired punks that naked Arnold meets on his arrival. Jenny Wright is fun to watch here and it's a reminder of her talent, and a shame that she retired/disappeared from the acting world in 1998. Others in support include Tim Thomerson as Caleb's dad and (a very young) James LeGros as the frightened teenage cowboy playing pool in the bar scene. Caleb's sister is played by Marcie Leeds, who played young Sarah (Barbara Hershey's character) in Beaches.A sure sign of 1980's horror is the electronic score provided by Tangerine Dream. Sure, the score would be much different today, but it's very much a part of the film's fabric and style. In addition to the key actors coming from Cameron's film, you will also note Aliens on the town's theatre marquee.Bram Stoker published "Dracula" in 1897 and since then it's provided source material and inspiration for an amazing number of films. Some of the best known include: Nosferatu in 1922, Bella Lugosi in 1931, Abbott and Costello Meet Frankenstein (1948), Frank Langella as Dracula (1979), The Hunger with Catherine Deneuve (1983), Francis Ford Coppola and Gary Oldman (1992), Tom Cruise in Anne Rice's Interview with the Vampire (1994), Robert Rodriguez' From Dusk til Dawn (1996 with George Clooney), Blade (1998), and most recently the Twilight franchise, TV's "True Blood", the excellent Let the Right One In (2008) and the animated Hotel Transylvania (2012). Next up is a NBC series with Jonathan Rhys Meyers in the title role. For the undead, it's quite a family tree of entertainment and horror.
Greetings again from the darkness. Marvelous dark comedy from writer Dean Craig and director Frank Oz (best known as Yoda). Excellent performances throughout, including numerous minor roles. I loved how some crackling individual scenes fit right in to the fabric of the entire picture.Many of the British actors won't be recognizable to American audiences, but the lead is played by Matthew Macfayden, who played simmering Mr. Darcy in the most recent "Pride and Prejudice". But he is just part of a tremendous comedy ensemble that includes the brilliant Andy Nyman, a very odd Ewen Bremnar, Daisy Donovan, Jane Asher, Kris Marshall, Rupert Graves, Peter Dinklage and a truly standout physical performance by Alan Tudyk. I would have paid to watch Mr. Tudyk read the script as he realizes he spends most of the movie spaced out on a fabricated drug while frolicking naked on the roof top.While the physical comedy is top notch, what I enjoyed most was the nuances of the individual characters. We immediately catch on to personalities through touches like a small skin rash, a hyper-ventilating driver, a first class plane ticket and anxiety over delivering a eulogy. Some truly exceptional moments on screen make for a most entertaining film.
Greetings again from the darkness. Director Mike Leigh is one of the least celebrated expert filmmakers working today. It's a shame more people aren't familiar with his films, and it's also a shame that his latest, a fantastic biopic of artist J.M.W. Turner, probably won't generate much mainstream appeal.The spectacle begins with Timothy Spall's performance as Joseph Mallord William Turner, an artist known for his use of light and color in seascapes and landscapes. Turner communicates in three ways, sometimes blending all three for quite a unique sequence: 1. Artwork 2. Verbal eloquence 3, Guttural grunts. We get to know Turner and his unusual methods of conversation in environments such as: the high society gatherings of the London art scene, at home with his aging father and uber-loyal housekeeper, and at the inspirational seaside community of Margate.Director Leigh and cinematographer Dick Pope brilliantly use color, light and texture in an artistic and atmospheric manner to complement the style of Turner the painter. Rather than run through a catalog of Turner's most famous paintings, the time is spent showing us his method for inspiration and his frequent sketching to capture a potential sight for later work.This is a most unsympathetic presentation of a creative man. Turner's commitment to hard work and diligence with his art often rubs wrong those who most admire him, including the mother of his two children and those who make the art world thrive. One of the most glaring examples is his treatment of 19th century art critic John Ruskin (Josh McGuire) who dares favorably compare Turner's work to other artists.Mr. Leigh brings back many of his usual and familiar acting troupe including Ruth Sheen as Turner's angry ex, Paul Jesson as Turner's dad (Turner really was an SOB  son of a barber), Dorothy Atkinson as the heart-breaking housekeeper (who ironically also adds a dash of humor), and Leslie Manville as Mary Somerville  the scientist who shared Turner's fascination with light and color. Of special note is Marion Bailey who brings extraordinary and welcome energy and warmth to her role of Sophia Booth, who dredges up an inkling of intimacy from Turner.Timothy Spall's performance is reason enough to watch the film a second time. He physically and emotionally embodies the being of Turner in a manner never before seen on screen. From his thunderous footsteps (reminiscent of Robocop) to his pained and telling facial gestures to the aforementioned grunts and groans, Spall delivers one of the most interesting and captivating performances of the year. If you are a Mike Leigh fan, you will surely be quick to see this one. If you are unfamiliar with his work, this is one worth seeking out.
Greetings again from the darkness. Part 3 of the Stieg Larsson Millennium trilogy brings to an end this fascinating multi-dimensional mystery-thriller centered around one of the most absorbing characters ever viewed on screen, Lisbeth Salander (Noomi Rapace). While I have anxiously awaited this final chapter, I must admit to a touch of emptiness in not having more to anticipate.As with any literary adaptation, there will be devotees of the written word who say the film versions don't do justice to the books. I have purposefully waited until seeing all three films to begin reading the books. What I will say is that from a pure film perspective, the 3 films are fascinating, thrilling and pure joy to follow.As a stand alone, part 3 can be watched as a whole ... however, I would promote the full benefit of watching the three in chronological order. The sum is much greater than any of the 3 pieces, though I will say that part one (Dragon Tattoo) is the superior film of the 3.Part 3 begins with a flashback to the end of 2, and has Lisbeth and her scumbag father in the hospital recovering from their violent meeting. Her goon half-brother Niedermann (Micke Spreitz) is on the hunt for revenge. Mikael Blomkvist (Michael Nyqvist) and his team at Millennium are putting together a comprehensive story to help in Lisbeth's defense and to prevent her from being institutionalized.This is where we really are introduced to the players of The Section, the secret society of Swedish Police. This group from the 60's seems to have no boundaries and will do whatever necessary to prevent exposure of their group. Their power is on display early on.What follows is a very complex weave of intricate plot lines that fall across many levels of Swedish society. At the epicenter is Lisbeth and her knowledge of her father's deeds over the years. Best to keep her quiet.As she recovers from her injuries, we see the Millennium team start putting the pieces together with the help of the police. Lisbeth's attorney Annika, has little luck in convincing her to speak with an independent shrink to prove her competence. Instead it falls to Dr. Teleborian, who has been a source of misery for Lisbeth since childhood. How things come together is quite fun to watch.There are so many things that make Lisbeth captivating as a character. Her lack of trust in everyone. Her struggles to communicate with other in anything more than grunts. Her outright brilliance when backed into a corner. On and on. She is no white knight, but she does have her own body armor ... spikes, piercings and hairspray.Lisbeth's saga has been a movie-going pleasure and I am sad to see it end. Though Larsson is dead, it's not difficult to imagine a writer picking up where he left off and come up with additional story lines. Until then, the best we get is the Americanized version with Daniel Craig and Rooney Mara. I trust Ms. Mara understands how high the bar was set by Noomi Rapace.
Greetings again from the darkness. Well critics have been raving about this film so strongly and for so long that I almost feel guilty going against the grain. Almost. Where they see a masterpiece with insight into love and self, I see an implausible story bordering on ludicrous.Writer/director Spike Jonze is an incredibly creative filmmaker. His Adaptation and Being John Malkovich are two movies I can watch repeatedly. I was a fan of his film version of Where The Wild Things Are, but this one just brought me nothing but annoyance, frustration and irritation.Rather than defend my minority stance, I'll just admit to not being onboard with this one. I have always believed we should each judge a film by how it touches us ... how we connect with it. I was neither touched nor connected.What I will say is the premise of technology replacing human interaction for some in the near future is not unthinkable and has already happened for some. But to say that a real relationship ... that true love ... can not just occur, but become commonplace between people and machines just simply contradicts what I believe comprises true love.The film is extremely well made and visually beautiful. The acting is superb: Joaquin Phoenix, Rooney Mara, Amy Adams are all terrific. Voice acting is spot on including Scarlett Johansson, Brian Cox, Kristen Wiig, and even Spike Jonze. But falling in love with an operating system? Maybe what Osgood Fielding III said at the end of Some Like it Hot is really true ... "Nobody's perfect".
Greetings again from the darkness. Director Alexander Payne has proved yet again that he has a remarkable eye for characters, and no need to bury those characters deep in plot. About Schmidt, Sideways, and The Descendants provided us with characters we could laugh with, cry with and feel with. His latest is his first film which he did not write, but it's clear that he and screenwriter Bob Nelson are similar type people watchers.What you notice immediately is that this film and its characters move at their own pace. There is no rushing or urgency. They do things and say things in due time. Or not. What you also notice is that the camera does the same thing. Filmed in stark black and white, the camera is exceedingly quiet and still ... just like the characters and landscape. We can thank Director of Photography Phedon Papamichael, who also worked with Payne on Sideways and The Descendants. Even the score is a bit offbeat. The blending of trumpet and guitar is rare, yet seems to fit just right.Bruce Dern is 77 years old and in his sixth decade of acting. While I have liked him quite often - and really liked him in The King of Marvin Gardens (1972) - this may be his best performance and best role yet. Dern's Woody Grant is an alcoholic, and hard of hearing, and crotchety, and isolated. More seriously, he seems to be in the early stages of dementia given his insistence on walking to Nebraska to collect his "winnings" from a mass marketing mailing similar to Publishers Clearing House. With minimal dialogue, we "get" Woody. That's thanks to Dern's physical performance and ability to emote through simple gestures. We feel his quiet desperation in the search for meaning in a life that is slipping away. He just wants to be somebody before the end.The delivery mechanism is a road trip shared by Woody and his very patient son David (Will Forte). We sense David looks at the trip as an opportunity to connect for the first time with his dad, and maybe even get some life questions answered along the way. On the trip, other family members join in, including Woody's other son Ross (Bob Odenkirk), and Woody's colorful wife Kate (June Squibb). The trip takes them to Woody's hometown where they cross paths with other family and old friends.Woody's insistence that he is about to be a millionaire brings out the "true self" in those whose paths they cross. Many of his old friends are truly happy for him and wish him nothing but the best. Others aren't so kind. True colors can be hard to watch, especially as shown by Woody's old partner Ed Pegram (Stacy Keach), and other family members who are just after "their fair share" of the loot. The movie excels in these moments ... watching a fiery Kate put these vultures in their place, while defending the husband she has spent the whole time badgering is priceless.Ms. Squibb delivers the film's funniest lines, but she also gives a depth to Kate that adds the level of realism. Will Forte is surprisingly effective given his Saturday Night Live background, but we never lose sight of Bruce Dern (and his hair). The characters we see are grounded rural midwesterners who live their life from day to day, depending heavily on family and friends. Their interpersonal skills are quite different than what is found in metropolitan areas, and those born and raised in heavily populated areas may struggle to relate.The film should garner Oscar nomination consideration in multiple categories, and Mr. Dern is probably a shoe-in for a Best Actor nom. So slow down and take share this trip from Montana to Nebraska ... while I can't promise a prize of one million dollars, you will definitely be rewarded.
Greetings again from the darkness. Explosions, Noise, Helicopters, Car Chases and guns ... all staples from a Tony Scott/Jerry Bruckheimer production. All of these are most certainly abundant and at the usual sensory overload level. What is a little surprising about this one is the somewhat complex, if almost impossible to believe, story line. Sure time travel and parallel universes are common in film, but the whole criminal element is a nice little twist to the theme.Denzel does his customary strutting through with his favorite partner ... his enormous ego, but it somehow works here. Val Kilmer is drastically underused as Mr. FBI and Adam Goldberg somehow only gets to fire off a couple of wise cracks during his scenes. The spark for the film actually comes from Paula Patton as the victim-or-is-she? and Jesus (Jim Caviezel) as a really bad guy "patriot" Sure, the film is pure malarkey as far as being reasonable, but as escapism, it is actually much better than anticipated. The best news ... no Jon Bon Jovi or Bryan Adams songs on the soundtrack!
Greetings again from the darkness. Much of what I write here contradicts my long maintained stance that a strong story/script is the basis for any movie worth it's proverbial weight. This neighborhood crime drama does not spin a twisty plot. Nor does it flash fascinating and colorful mobsters. Instead, it's the acting that elevates this to the point of neo-noir must see.This is James Gandolfini's final movie. He passed away while director Michael Roskam (Bullhead) was in editing mode. Gandolfini plays Cousin Marv, a would-be wise-guy who never-really-was and is now bitter and desperate, in a beaten down kind of way. As a farewell, Gandolfini leaves us a final reminder of what a powerful screen presence he was, and what a terrific feel for character and scene he possessed.The real attraction and the main reason to see the film is the outstanding and mesmerizing performance of Tom Hardy. In many ways, his bartender Bob is the polar opposite of his infamous Bane from The Dark Knight Rises. Quasi-effeminate in his vocal deliverings, and moving with a slow, stilted shuffle, Bob is one of the least imposing guys you would likely look right through. At least that's the first impression. Hardy is so nuanced, we aren't even certain when his character evolves and exposes his true make-up. When he does, it's the highlight of the film.Noomi Rapace, in yet another intriguing turn, plays local waitress Nadia, who befriends Bob after he rescues an abused puppy. Since the movie is based on Dennis Lehane's short story "Animal Rescue", it's no surprise that the main characters each share a need to be rescued. Nadia's ex-boyfriend is played to full creepy effect by Matthias Schoenaerts (so great in Rust and Bone, 2012). The scenes between Schoenaerts and Hardy show the movie at its tension-filled best.As with most neighborhood crime dramas, there are many secrets, local legends, and allegiances in doubt. The players are weary and dream of either better times or ending the misery. Mr. Lehane wrote the novels that led to some other fine films: Mystic River, Gone Baby Gone, and Shutter Island. He has a feel for realistic characters, and his material depends on extraordinary acting for fulfillment. This slow boil benefits from some of the best acting we could ask for.
Greetings again from the darkness. This is the second of Stieg Larsson's Millennium trilogy, though we have a new director for parts two and three. Daniel Alfredson takes a more mainstream approach to filming and story telling and, of course, he loses the element of surprise we enjoyed in "The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo".With Noomi Rapace and Michael Nyqvist back as Lisbeth and Mikael Blomkvist respectively, it certainly helps to have seen the first film to fill in the character development that this one assumes. We are treated to a more intricate, complex story line in this one, but the fun research part we enjoyed in part one, comes up a bit short.Swedish acting veteran/legend Per Oscarsson appears as Lisbeth's first (and trusted) state assigned officer. He plays a small, but vital role and is quite interesting on screen - even at age 83! The story fills in some of the gaps on Lisbeth's childhood and background but really leaves her s bit short on screen time despite being suspected of 3 murders.Lisbeth's looks is somewhat softer in this one and we get full on views of her eyes, which rarely happened in part one. I believe the movie suffers a bit by making it easier to relate to her as a wronged woman. Still, the story is much better than the average thriller and the two lead characters are more interesting than most. I look forward to the final film of the trilogy ... "The Girl who Kicked the Hornet's Nest".
Greetings again from the darkness. Since I recently selected an animated film as my favorite movie of the year (Toy Story 3), it is to be expected that I would find the first Muppets movie in 12 years to be quite enjoyable. Actually I went in with high expectations since the director is James Bobin, who was the creator of "Flight of the Conchords", one of my favorite cult TV shows. Although Bret and Jermaine don't make an appearance (though Bret McKenzie does write the songs), there is still loads of fun to be had.Jason Segel and Amy Adams star, along with Chris Cooper, Rashida Jones, Jack Black and a long list of celebs who I won't name here ... it's much more fun to spot them as they arrive on screen. The old gang is back, including Kermit, Miss Piggy, Gonzo (now owner of plumbing company Royal Flush), Fozzie Bear (in a casino act), Animal (straight out of Anger Management) and of course, my favorites, Statler and Waldorf.There are a couple of tributes to the genius that was Jim Henson, creator of the Muppets. You will notice a poster of him outside the studio and a photograph on the wall of Kermit's office. No real need to go into the story, but I think most will be impressed not just with the cameos and songs, but also the depth of the script. There is a reason for the Muppets revival, and I am very happy to see the band is back together!
Greetings again from the darkness. Since I am no biblical scholar, my comments are those of a movie lover. Tackling any part of a story from the bible is a journey filled with land mines and aggressive criticism - and that's before your movie is released! Surely director Darren Aronofsky was prepared for backlash from those who forbid any interpretation of the Good Book. The story of Noah lasts but a few pages in the bible, meaning Aronofsky had to creatively fill some space to produce a 2-plus hour film.Russell Crowe makes a fine Noah. He is relentless in his quest to fulfill The Creator's request ... and he flashes his "Gladiator" glare on a few occasions. Rather than an uplifting childhood bedtime story, this Noah carries the burden of God, his own family and the survival of all beings ... his days are filled with moral dilemmas much larger than what you and I go through.With all the miscommunication afforded by email and text these days, imagine if God conversed with you through images in your dreams. Maybe that process creates some areas of gray? Not if you are Noah. I guess he only dreams when God wants to show him something, so his decision making and mission is pretty focused. He is to build a giant floating warehouse to save two of every creature. Yes, that means a lot of death for those not invited. See, God is using Noah and his family to help cleanse the earth of mankind ... God is ready for a re-boot. He is really not happy with how mean and nasty man has become ever since that whole apple debacle and the murder of Abel by Cain.Some of the visual effects are spectacular. I especially enjoyed the high-speed montage showing the creation of life ... you know that first week. Also, the beginning of the flood is quite a spectacle, but the ark itself is actually quite stunning ... constructed per the size noted in the Bible. The animals are all digitally created and we actually see little of them, though the on-boarding process goes remarkably smooth - considering this happens before the herbal sleep concoction is disbursed.Most of the discussion will probably be on The Watchers ... the fallen angels who once tried to help mankind, and for their efforts, God turned them into giant stone creatures. I will add that The Watchers need a new nickname since they did the bulk of the manual labor in constructing the arc and then protecting it ... not much watching going on for these poor guys (voiced by Nick Nolte and Frank Langella, among others).Noah's wife is played by Jennifer Connelly and their sons are played by Logan Lerman, Douglas Booth and Leo McHugh Carroll. They welcome Emma Watson into their family in what turns into a very odd plot twist, and the villain, Tubal-Cain is payed by Ray Winstone. Methuselah, Noah's grandfather, is played to the hilt by Anthony Hopkins. All of these characters are pretty one dimensional, but this is Noah's story. The burden he carries is quite heavy and his decisions aren't always popular.If you are looking for the well documented story of Noah, it's no mystery what book you should be reading. If you are after a pretty impressive visual interpretation, you could certainly do worse than Aronofsky's take. And the best news ... no Morgan Freeman voice-over!
Greetings again from the darkness. It would be easy to dismiss this film as typical lighthearted Hollywood fluff that carries no real message (other than a 2 hour escape). The interesting thing is that it's really not an escape - we are tossed right into the workaday world of a manic TV producer. Additionally, though it has plenty of light moments, it also carries a bit of depth in breaking down a couple of lead characters.Rachel McAdams plays Becky Fuller, morning TV show producer. Becky is a cute, driven, frantic, EverReady Bunny ball of energy who watches multiple TV's and carries on multiple conversations, all while texting incessantly. She is hired by Jeff Goldblum in his final attempt at resurrecting ratings for "Daybreak", a mere blip of competition to "The Today Show".The story gets interesting when Becky recruits/blackmails news legend Mike Pomeroy (Harrison Ford) to co-anchor the show with Diane Keaton's character. To compare, Keaton's character will kiss a frog or don a pink tutu and has mastered the perpetual smile so necessary for morning TV. Ford's character may not have smiled since 4th grade and views the mission of TV as delivering news and hard stories and information.The conflict in the story comes from Ford's character (labeled the world's third worst person), whom the world has passed by, and McAdams', who is the eternal optimist. It's pretty obvious they will somehow save each other, but still I found it entertaining to watch the road. Thank goodness there was no May-September romance between McAdams and Ford.The film itself, directed by Roger Michell (Venus, Notting Hill) and Aline Brosh McKenna (The Devil Wears Prada), does a nice job with insight into those whose personalities are bound tightly to their job. There were a few occasions where the film felt choppy - like some scenes were cut or reinserted, and the music was consistently weak. I Also could have done with about 8 fewer scenes of McAdams running through New York in her heels - we get that she never stops moving! Even though it's not at the level of "Broadcast News", it offers enough depth and comedy to make this a worthwhile film to see.
Greetings again from the darkness. Leave it to Stephen King to provide the source material for a quality horror/thriller that is set apart from the masses by a multi-level story that is actually interesting and entertaining. Director Mikael Hafstrom ("Derailed") handles the tension pretty well.John Cusack, at his most cynical, is on screen nearly every moment of the movie. He definitely brought his A game with him, probably thankful that his character is a bit beaten down rather than his usual overly-energetic and cutesy. As a researcher and writer of spiritual phenomenon, he long ago gave up hope of reaching the afterworld.Welcome to hotel manager Samuel L. Jackson's worst weekend getaway ... Room 1408 at the Dolphin. In what would be the worst hour for any of us, Room 1408 systematically proceeds to drive Cusack to insanity and suicide. What really makes this one click is the mental side of the story ... a King specialty. Most horror writers forget, or are not talented enough, to write stories that stimulate the brain ... they only goes for the visuals.Even though Cusack hogs the screen time, some support work is provided by a creepy Samuel L. Jackson, Mary McCormack (Russell Crowe's wife in "Mystery, Alaska"), Tony Shalhoub ("Monk") and Jasmine Jessica Anthony as Cusack's dead daughter. Oh yeah, and a supporting nod must go to Karen and Richard Carpenter's "We've Only Just Begun" which will stick in your brain for the rest of the day.
Greetings again from the darkness. Director Tim Story and the entire gang are back from the first film only this time the Silver Surfer adds a touch of class. The initial chase scene with Johnny Storm and the Surfer makes the film worth the price of admission.Yes, there is a bit too much relationship mush and scientific mumbo-jumbo, but this group was never meant to be an overly charismatic group except when they are saving the world. I will say, Jessica Alba seems a bit more annoying this time around, both in her fake tan looks and her whiny-bride act. Still, it is fun when they go into full "fantastic" mode.Laurence Fishburne is the voice of the Silver Surfer and all scenes involving this fascinating character are a bit more exciting than the rest. Ion Gruffudd, Chris Evans and Michael Chiklis fill out the rest of the FOUR, and Julian McMahon is back from the dead as Victor Von Doom. It is set up for yet another sequel, and who can blame them as long as there is an interest from the fans. Don't expect classic film-making, just go for the light hearted fun and special effects.
Greetings again from the darkness. I guess this qualifies as director Oliver Stone returning to his dark side. Based on Don Winslow's novel, it certainly has the foundation to be a complex, down-and-dirty, twisted plot, double-crossing, love triangle, ultra-violent, drug-dealing smörgåsbord. And while it possesses all of those elements, it still manages to come across as some slick Michael Mann cable TV project.The film begins with narration from O (Blake Lively) who tells us that just because she is telling us this story, doesn't mean she is alive at the end. Huh?? She also tells us that she is in love with two drug-dealing buddies. Yes, both of them. Chon (Taylor Kitsch) is the ex-Seal and muscle in the business. Ben (Aaron Johnson) is the gifted botanist who turns the Afghan seeds into the most potent pot in southern California. Oh, and Ben is the ultimate philanthropist drug dealer. He builds schools in third world countries and invests in clean energy. After what felt like an eternity, the narration finally ended and I could stop yelling "Shut up, O" at the screen.One day the boys receive a video via email. It's an invitation to a business meeting with the Mexican Baja Drug cartel. Suffice to say that the video contained no balloons or party animals. It was more of a warning about what happens if you choose not to do business with us. The cartel front men are played by Demian Bichir (fresh off A Better Life) and Benecio Del Toro (MIA since The Wolfman). The queen of the cartel is Elena, played by Salma Hayak. Throw in a corrupt DEA agent, playing both sides against each other, portrayed by John Travolta and all the pieces are in place for real fireworks once O is kidnapped.The rest of the movie is pretty much the war you would expect with some poor negotiation skills tossed in for fun. Overacting is the word of the day, especially from Travolta, Ms. Hayak and Emile Hirsch (money man). Still not sure what to make of Ms. Lively (The Town). The camera certainly loves her but it's too early to tell if she has staying power as an actress. The only character that is really fun to watch is Lado, played by Del Toro. He is truly a frightening guy who also happens to have a deceptive mind on how to take over from the weak.The whole good versus evil story line really only works if one side is good and one side is evil. If the good side (Ben) is a drug-dealer in a love triangle with his best friend, it's much more difficult to muster empathy. Otherwise, when the mandatory hostage/money exchanges occur, we really aren't invested in the characters ... and the action takes center stage. That's the sign of a forgettable movie with no real heart.
Greetings again from the darkness. This is a stunningly visual film with animation that will take your breath away. My eyes could hardly keep up with the opening credits as we "flew" through the city. However, as amazing as the film looks and as wonderful as the Jim Carrey voices are, the film still lacks something.What may have happened is that some of the Dickens story was cut due to costs and the desire to concentrate on Scrooge. I am not saying it was a mistake, it just prevents us from ever connecting to the plight of Cratchet (Gary Oldman) or Scrooge's nephew (Colin Firth).One thing is for sure, the spirits are frightening. Marley's spirit will have kids running for the exits or hiding behind parents. That will probably hurt the film as it will need kids to build any type of box score.Definitely worth seeing for the visuals, but certainly not in the top versions if you really want to capture the spirit of Dickens' novel.
Greetings again from the darkness. Nearly 50 years have passed since director Luis Bunuel brought the 1928 novel of Joseph Kessel to the big screen. It's a story of erotic fantasy told with Bunuel's unique surrealistic style. The film also presents a young Catherine Deneuve at her most striking.Ms. Deneuve's Severine plays the bored housewife to her doctor husband (Jean Sorrel). He is extremely patient and understanding of her coldness in the bedroom, and it's clear that she loves him, despite the lack of physical attraction. Soon enough, we are provided a glimpse of Severine's masochistic fantasies. It's not until later that we begin to understand what drives her imagination.Severine deflects the advances of an older family friend played by Michael Piccoli, who is so attracted by her purity, and unknowingly leads her into a world that might satisfy her in ways that her gentleman husband hasn't. When Severine meets Madam Anais (Genevieve Page), she begins playing out her fantasies through the afternoon shift at the brothel ... all while keeping up appearances for society.Bunuel provides us teases of the source through flashbacks and sound effects - a carriage harness bell and the periodic meows of a cat. It's never Bunuel's intent to answer all questions, and he certainly makes no moral judgment towards Severine. Instead we get an exploration of the variances in love, sex and fantasy.In the end, we aren't absolutely certain that we can distinguish between Severine's reality and her fantasy, but we do understand the importance of her fantasies within the structure of her day to day life. If watching Ms. Deneuve perform in this gem motivates you to see more, I would recommend Roman Polanski's Repulsion. Also, it should be noted that she still acts today.
Greetings again from the darkness. Mention to me that Terry Gilliam has a new film and I can't help but chuckle and wonder what his mind has dreamed up this time. His past films include Brazil, The Fisher King and the underrated Adventures of Baron Munchausen. One thing I know, he will challenge beliefs and remind me that my imagination pales in comparison to the master.Even Mr. Gilliam was challenged this time as filming was halted due to the death of Heath Ledger. A very imaginative tweak to the script allows Johnny Depp, Jude Law and Collin Farrell to sub in so the film could be completed. The solution is a bit odd and disjointed, but of course, fits right in with the rest of the film.Christopher Plummer, smack in the middle of a career re-birth, plays Dr. Parnassus, the spiritual leader of an oddball traveling sideshow. Dr. P's mirrored portal "invites" guests to discover their own imagination in a wicked choice of morality and greed ... a twisted good vs. evil that exists in us all. Of course, all this comes after Plummer struck a deal with the devil (terrific Tom Waits) over his immortality and the soul of his first born child ... played well by Lily Cole.Plenty can be interpreted from all that occurs inside the mirror. It is a fascinating world and has some touches of Mr. Gilliam's Monty Python roots. Don't expect a traditional Hollywood film, but enjoy the visuals and the many messages offered ... even if some are presented in a somewhat messy format.
Greetings again from the darkness. Welcome to the annual off-season gift from Liam Neeson. Seemingly every year, he provides us with a February or September release that requires his particular set of tough guy skills. This time, he plays Matthew Scudder - of the popular Lawrence Block crime novel series (17 books).Director Scott Frank (The Lookout) works to create a 1970's feel, although the film opens up as a flashback to 1991, and quickly fast forwards to 1999 NYC. There are no shortage of clichés here, but nothing is over the top; and the bleak, somber, usually rainy setting establishes the tone that fits with "unlicensed" private detective Scudder's preferred method of living and detecting.Of course, Scudder is a recovering alcoholic and former cop, with a tragic, careless incident on his record and conscience. The film is so ever-bleak, that the moments of humor ... though often awkward and out of place ... are quite welcome. The only shining light of innocence comes courtesy of a sharp homeless kid named TJ, played by Brian "Astro" Bradley. TJ is a Philip Marlowe wannabe, and quickly assumes the role of Scudder's partner/intern/IT Department.Bad guys are everywhere. Even the serial killers (David Harbour, Adam David Thompson) target the family members of criminals, so as to minimize the involvement of the proper authorities. As an improper authority, we can't ask for better than Liam Neeson. He works for "favors", not a paycheck.Other support work comes courtesy of Dan Stephens ("Downton Abbey"), Boyd Holbrook, and creepy cemetery groundskeeper (is there another type?) Olafur Darri Olafsson, who creates yet another memorable character with limited screen time (see "True Detective").Mr. Neeson gets plenty of telephone action, which plays right into the strength of Taken, and it's pretty amazing how much WALKING he does throughout the story. He looks great walking in his duster, but it seems a bicycle would be more efficient ... though admittedly, much less daunting. As a whole, though the movie is probably a bit familiar, it's the little details and the powerful Liam Neeson that makes it a welcome late summer release.
Greetings again from the darkness. Billed as "From the Producer of Sideways", the similarities end there. The filmmakers should be sued for slander by just mentioning the far superior "Sideways" in the same breath. Brief overview ... too boring, too few laughs, vile characters, slow story and nothing of interest or insight. Oh, and by the way, self-absorption is not underrated.The only reasons I don't rate this even lower is because Thomas Haden Church and Ellen Page at least put out some effort despite the lack of creativity written into their roles. Sarah Jessica Parker does dial down her usual annoyance factor, but her character displays such stupidity and lack of judgment in chasing the slovenly professor that it just becomes unbearable.As for Dennis Quaid in the lead role, he is just totally miscast. The fake pot belly, inconsistent limp and absurd hair and beard just play right into the one-trick pony that is his stereotypical widower professor.In the end, if any of us want to be totally miserable around a family, it might as well be our own.
Greetings again from the darkness. Somehow it's been a full 20 years since this groundbreaking film was released. It's a rare combination of cult and holiday, and even all these years later, it's incredibly entertaining. It shouldn't surprise anyone that the lead character is a societal misfit who means well. After all, the story is based on a Tim Burton poem.While watching the film, what strikes me is that this was a totally unique and creative world designed by Burton and director Henry Selick. Mr. Selick is a stop-motion expert known also for Coraline (Oscar nominated) and James and the Giant Peach. Complimenting the fantastical look and characters are the witty songs penned by Danny Elfman. Mr. Elfman is now one of the most prolific and successful composers working in the movie industry. At the time, he was better known as the front man for the party band Oingo Boingo (his Batman score changed that!).Since Pixar took over the animated world, we have come to expect major stars as voice actors. In Halloween Town, we instead get Danny Elfman (singing) and Chris Sarandon (speaking) teaming up for Jack Skellington, the Pumpkin King of Halloween Town. Catherine O'Hara is effective as Sally, Paul Reubens (Pee Wee Herman) stands out as Lock (of Lock, Shock and Barrel). The two most outstanding voice performances come from the late William Hickey as Dr Finkelstein (mad scientist), and Broadway star Ken Page as bad guy (and worm-infested) Oogie Boogie.There has been debate on whether this is best served as a Halloween movie or Christmas movie. The desire and hope to bring positive change to the world seems to fit the Christmas spirit, but the goblins and ghouls are sure to provide a nice scare for young kids. Especially fun are the "new toys" created by the work crews in Halloween Town as they prepare for a good will holiday they don't quite understand.Whatever your preferred time of year, this one is to be appreciated for it's creative look and imaginative story and songs. Rather than being created to sell toys, this 3 year production changed the standards for animation films ... that's the gift that keeps giving every year!
Greetings again from the darkness. If you have seen the preview, you know exactly what the film is about. Regrettably, I have not read Zoe Heller's novel, which is evidently brilliant in its subtle manipulation. Director Richard Eyre's ("Iris") film adaptation is anything but subtle, but it is still loads of fun ... in a demented kind of way.One should read or discuss the film as little as possible prior to viewing so as not to lose what little element of surprise exists after the trailer. What you can know is that Dame Judi Dench and Cate Blanchett are pure magic on screen. They remind of a great Bette Davis vs. Joan Crawford battle and that is lofty company indeed! Blanchett wreaks agony and Dench expertly delivers some of the best British stuffy one liners in film history. These two are what take the film from the Lifetime Channel to interesting movie watching. Throw in Bill Nighy's fine support work and you have two hours of entertainment, even though the subject matter is a bit tough to stomach.Philip Glass' score adds depth and mood and the best advice I can give is to sit back and enjoy the performances. A bit campy at times, I just viewed this as a nice comic relief from the extremely heavy subject matter.
Greetings again from the darkness. This is an obvious (and proud of it) homage to the great teen films of John Hughes. It is updated for this generation of teens - replete with FaceBook, texting and webcam. While this one may not have the fully realized characters of the Hughes films, it actually takes things a step further in its commentary on many topics: family life, parenting, religious zealotry, rumor-mongering and the public education system.Writer Bert V. Royal's script delivers an intellectual and comedic look into high school life ... told through the eyes of the smart, "invisible" girl. Just a brief overview will be offered here so as not to take away from the multiple layers.Emma Stone ("Zombieland", "The House Bunny") delivers a star-making performance as Olive. Forced into a faux-confession by her best friend, Olive experiences the efficiencies of digital gossip spreading as word leaks regarding the apparent loss of her "V card". Even though this one is based in Ojai, California, it's nice to know that high school promiscuity is still met with a certain stigma. Here that stigma is compared to Hawthorne's expert novel, The Scarlet Letter.This sets into action a series of unforeseen events. The school's religious nuts, led by Amanda Bynes, take Olive's situation as a personal affront and spend a great deal of effort trying to punish her for her sins. At the same time, the geeks and dweebs view Olive as their savior and proceed to take advantage of the opportunity.While she is presented as a very sharp-witted, well-grounded teenager, Olive experiences the enormous power of a reputation. All of this is balanced out by her extraordinary relationship with her free-spirited, yet wise parents played by Patricia Clarkson and Stanley Tucci.I can't possibly do justice to the script or the numerous topics broached, but I will say that it's a welcome new approach to teen movies. The usual schlock sex is replaced by sharp quips and real pressures. Do note that the dialogue is filled with much harsh language that wouldn't be welcome in an environment other than a high school campus. Further support work is offered by Penn Badgley as the good guy, Thomas Haden Church as a new world cool teacher, Malcolm McDowell as an old school principal and Lisa Kudrow as a guidance counselor (in a role that gives me permission to feel the disgust I usually feel when she is on screen).Don't be scared off thinking this is another lousy teen flick. It is instead an insightful comedy that plays well for adults and teens. While you may not agree with all of the social observations, I believe you will agree the film is presented in a most entertaining and insightful manner.
Greetings again from the darkness. Everyone loves the circus (except those who are scared of clowns). Everyone loves trains (except those who are scared of wrecks). Everyone loves performing animals (as long as they are a safe distance). Combine those elements with a best-selling novel, three popular actors and a twist on "Titanic" and you end up with a very watchable, though slightly mundane dramatic love story.You are probably wondering where I came up with the "Titanic" reference. Allow me to explain. The story begins with an old man caught in a rain storm. We quickly find out Hal Holbrook is playing the Robert Pattinson character as an old man. Mr. Holbrook's character corresponds to Gloria Stuart's character in "Titanic". Both provide flashback detail to a love story engulfed in tragedy. On top of that, both have twinkly blue eyes! Paul Schneider is in the Bill Paxton role ... trying his best to get the secrets of what really happened so many years ago.The story is based on Sara Gruen's best selling novel and is set in depression-soaked 1931. Jacob (Pattinson) is sitting for his Cornell veterinarian finals when he is notified of a family tragedy. He promptly sets out on the road and jumps a train. Not just any train ... the Benzini Brothers Circus train. He is taken under the wing of Camel, the old timer played well by Jim Norton. Soon enough he is summoned to meet the circus owner. A brief meeting leads first to the order to toss Jacob off the train, but he is saved by his knowledge of animal medicine - a valuable job in the circus.Now is as good of time as any to let you know that the great Christoph Waltz plays August, the circus owner. As in his Oscar winning role for "Inglourious Basterds", Waltz' August is alternatingly charming and chilling. He is a ruthless circus owner who values no man or animal. He values only making money and his star attraction and wife, Marlena (Reese Witherspoon). Oh, and just because he values her, doesn't mean he treats her well. He is near-psychotic when he goes off on her or anyone or anything else. Pause ... then a few minutes later, he is back to his charming self. Very frightening stuff.Of course, it's not surprising that Jacob is enchanted with Marlena (a bareback rider) or that she returns the affection. What is surprising is that they continue to push the boundaries of good sense while within the confines of the circus group - and August. You can imagine the confrontations and situations that arise, but Marlena's insistence that no life exists for her outside the circus is head-scratching.The story really picks up when the struggling circus purchases a performing elephant named Rosie. It didn't take me long to figure out that Rosie may be the smartest character in the film. She is certainly the most crucial for Marlena and Jacob.The screenplay is from Richard Gravenese who has a track record with this type of story. He was also responsible for "The Horse Whisperer" and "Bridges of Madison County". What's surprising is the director is Francis Lawrence, previously known for "I Am Legend" and "Constantine". This movie has no resemblance to those films and his cast and crew obviously help him adjust to a more melodramatic storyline.What I really like about the film are the realistic characters and the setting. The trains, big top, circus performers and workers all seem real, as do the few circus scenes presented. Without the Christoph Waltz character and performance, this film would be truly just a run-of-the-mill dramatic love story. His element and the realistic circus life make this one worthwhile.
Greetings again from the darkness. Having not read John Green's book, and missing his targeted demographics by gender and a few decades, the narrator's very early criticism of my favorite teen movie "Say Anything ..." had me quickly questioning whether I was going to make it through this one. The greatness of Shailene Woodley soon won me over and I was all in.The story revolves around a teenage girl named Hazel(Woodley) who was diagnosed with cancer a few years ago, and has remained alive and active thanks to an experimental drug. She is an exceptionally perceptive girl and carries the burden of worrying about how (or if) her parents (Laura Dern, Sam Trammell) will carry on after her death. She attends a teenage support group to keep her parents happy, and bumps into a friendship with a spirited young man named Gus (Ansel Elgort) ... a self-labeled one-legged 18 year old virgin cancer survivor.You guessed it ... this is a tear-jerker. But it's even more of a love story. Specifically, it's a story about the joy in finding someone to love. While the cancer is ever-present, it's the love story that captures our interest. When the story veers from that, it suffers. The trip to Amsterdam and the segment with Willem Dafoe seems out of place until it's eclipsed by the final scene at the Anne Frank house. I understand the point, but it struck me as forced emotions ... in a movie that was not lacking emotion.Regardless of all of that, the reason to see this is the genius of Shailene Woodley. Neither she nor Elgort are teenagers, but they perfectly capture the adorable balance between awkward and witty. Woodley's range is staggering (The Descendants, The Spectacular Now, Divergent) and she and Jennifer Lawrence should be blessing us with their talent for many many years to come.The screenplay was co-written by Scott Neustadler and Michael H Weber who also co-wrote both (500) Days of Summer and The Spectacular Now. Their feel for dialogue and budding relationships is spot on, delivering a level of respect to both sexes. This film is very sweet and filled with grace, and tainted only by the saccharine musical choices and the Amsterdam sequence.
Greetings again from the darkness. If director Neil LaBute's last film wasn't enough reason to boycott this film, surely the ridiculous trailer was, right? Well, not when one is addicted to movies and "Ghost Town" is the other weekend opener.Besides, LaBute does have "The Company of Men" on his resume, though that is more than negated by "Nurse Betty". But c'mon, Samuel L Jackson as an angry, prejudiced, screw-loose cop? That's got to have some good moments, eh? Sure enough, the first 30-45 minutes of the film deliver the level of uncomfortableness that LaBute was after. Viewers struggle to tell if Jackson is truly well meaning or actually the world's worst neighbor.The objects of his disaffection are Patrick Wilson and Kerry Washington, the interracial couple who move in next door. Jackson's menacing looks and words and his ability to flash a badge make for quite a nightmare for the two love birds.The film starts out seeming to test our beliefs and opinions on race but then spins off the axis and winds up being almost as ridiculous as "The Wicker Man" ... I said ALMOST! The last 45 minutes, I pretty much just kept thinking to myself ... "are you kidding". The ending certainly could have been handled much better given the few moments of brilliance throughout the movie. Quite the cop-out (pun intended).
Greetings again from the darkness. Based on both historical fact and Frank Miller's graphic novel, "300" brings alive the legendary 300 Sparta soldiers.Gerard Butler is truly powerful as King Leonidas, the leader who takes the men off to battle despite the disapproval of council. The battle scenes are extraordinary and unlike anything we have seen on film before. The hand to hand combat is breathless at times and the creatures of Xerxes army are quite the colorful lot, as his Xerxes himself (played flamingly by Rodrigo Santoro).The weakness of the film comes from the lack of dramatic energy within the boundaries of Sparta. The citizens and council are faceless, save Dominic West as slimy Theron, and Lena Headey as the spunky Queen. No amount of spectacular action can save a lackluster story.
Greetings again from the darkness. Can't imagine there ever will be, but if there were to be a court trial against Pixar claiming unfair world animation domination, "Despicable Me" would surely be logged as Evidence A. Having the unfortunate luck of being released in the same year as Pixar's masterpiece "Toy Story 3", this is a fine children's film, but just no match.I am happy to report that the kids in the theatre seemed to respond very well to this one ... especially the Minions. If you have been to a movie in the past year, you have probably been exposed to the Minions - a group of cute, yellow tennis ball-looking creatures with either one or two eyes, a unique squeaking language and an infectious giggle/laugh. I found them to be the highlight of the movie as well.Basic story has Gru (Steve Carell voice) on a mission to be the world's best villain. He has had some success, but has been a financial disaster. We learn this when he visits the Bank of Evil and they reject his loan for his newest project - stealing the moon! Gru is in competition with a new, younger evil mastermind named Vector (Jason Segel voice). Gru and his inventor Dr. Nefario (Russell Brand) are a step behind in technology, but manage to come up with a strategy.The plan involves cookie-selling orphans who Gru adopts. The story is pretty simple in that he initially plans to use them to trap Vector, but of course, Gru is the one who has his heart stolen by the 3 girls.It's mostly a cute presentation of a very simple story. Younger kids will get a kick out of it ... and don't seem to be as annoyed at Steve Carell's odd accent as I was. It comes across as a cross between Russian and German, but is easily enough understood.Don't expect the brilliance of Pixar, but it will entertain the youngsters.
Greetings again from the darkness. Since "Training Day" became a hit, director Antoine Fuqua has been one of the directors that escape harsh criticism from the Hollywood elite. He is a master of intense moments in time, but I believe many of his movies lack continuity. "Brooklyn's Finest" is no exception. The film follows the unconnected stories of three cops. Richard Gere is the stereotypical veteran cop who is one week from retirement and begins the film with a gun in his mouth. Ethan Hawke is the desperate young cop whose family just keeps growing (his wife Lili Taylor is pregnant with twins) and he longs to provide better arrangements. Don Cheadle is the undercover cop who, if he hasn't already crossed the line, is dangerously close.The best scenes are with Cheadle and Wesley Snipes, who plays a just released from prison hardened criminal. Their dialogue rings true for an undercover cop trying to play both sides and remember what's right. If not for Ellen Barkin's histrionics, the worst scenes would be watching Richard Gere show off his full repertoire of three different facial expressions. Poor Ethan Hawke looks like no one let him eat or shower for 2 months prior to filming. The boy looks sad.Even though we know it's coming, the final act where the three stories intersect is pretty interesting and make for a satisfying shoot-em-up ending. Brace yourself for some hardcore street violence and language and a meandering soundtrack. The film funnels to the point that there is a very fine line between right and wrong for law enforcement types. I prefer to keep the faith that this is a serious exaggeration.
Greetings again from the darkness. Jay Roach seems to be the perfect guy to direct a political campaign parody during a Presidential election year. He has had plenty of low-brow comedy success with Austin Powers and Meet the Fockers. He gained respect with his political sharpness in Recount and Game Change, and he is co-founder of Funny or Die. Instead, the movie has the feel of being thrown together during a long weekend with his drinking buddies. Lucky for him, his buddies include Will Ferrell and Zach Galifianakis.Revolving around a North Carolina Republican Congressional primary, we are first introduced to a smug Cam Brady (Ferrell), the four term incumbent who expects to run unopposed. Not long after we learn local twit Marty Huggins (Galifianakis) is entering the race ... even though he freezes in front of the camera and has no apparent platform or special issue to support. Of course, that is the one thing both candidates share - the issues aren't the focus of the movie or their campaign. Rather, this is meant to poke fun at what political campaigning has devolved into, and how we as voters continue to fall for the dirty game of politics.We soon learn that the billionaire Motch brothers are financing Marty's campaign. Their single interest is making more money and they need an indebted politician to help them buy up cheap district land and re-sell it to the Chinese so that cheap labor can be "insourced". Clearly the Motch brothers (John Lithgow and Dan Aykroyd) are meant to spoof the real life political power brokers, the Koch Brothers.Clueless Marty gets help from intense campaign manager guru Tim Whattley (Dylan McDermott) who there to make him not suck so much. First thing is to re-do Marty's image ... they remodel his house, right down to replacing the family pugs with two more popular breeds. As Marty gets caught up in the campaign fervor, we get the expected results: he drifts from his family, the dirty stuff includes real life political sojourns like drunk driving, sexting, infidelity, false accusations, religious hypocrisy and public embarrassment of the opponents.The real statement here, if there is one, seems to be that we the voters have allowed political campaigning to turn into a contest of who connects with us and who seems to be like us, rather than a focus on issues present and future. Kissing our baby or attending our county fair shows the candidate is one of us, while in fact, gives no indication of whether the candidate has any true beliefs or understands the issues. There are plenty of laughs in the movie, though it's not my particular favorite type of comedy (think Talladega Nights). I will particularly tip my cap to Zach G for his willingness to do whatever is necessary for a laugh. He is a fearless comedian.
Black screen. Cue the lone trumpet's haunting opening notes of Nino Rota's theme. Close up of a suffering man. "I believe in America." That, my friends, is a powerful opening to a truly great film.It's been 40 years since it's original release, and this latest remastering looked and sounded amazing on Cinemark's largest screen. Following those opening moments, we get our first look at Marlon Brando as Vito Corleone. On this screen, it was almost like seeing him for the first time ... a disquieting figure that oozes power and demands respect.There is no need for another review of this truly classic American film. Instead, this will offer a few observations (possible spoilers) and notes of interest ... combined with the highest possible recommendation to watch this one again!At its core, author Mario Puzo's story is about power, loyalty, trust and family. We witness what happens when one is viewed as having too much power. Loyalty is rewarded, and disloyalty brings the harshest possible penalty. Trust is gained over time, but lost in a flash. And family is the most complex subject of all.Over the years, there have been a few movies with more star-studded casts, but it's difficult to imagine a more perfectly selected cast: Marlon Brando, James Caan, Robert Duvall, Al Pacino, John Cazale, Sterling Hayden, Richard Conte, Diane Keaton, Talia Shire, Abe Vigoda. Each of these actors have graced the screen in numerous roles, but for this three hour film, they become Corleones, associates, enemies, etc. There were a few things that jumped out at me during this viewing. The use of oranges (the fruit) contradicts the health benefits preached by the medical profession. Every time we see a bowl of fruit, a fruit stand or someone peeling, eating, or selecting an orange, a scene of doom (usually quite violent) is soon to follow. Carlo is even wearing an orange suit when Sonny (James Caan) shows up and paints the sidewalk with him. Don't miss the billboard featuring oranges that Sonny drives by just before he pulls up to the toll booth. Brando's final scene is preceded by him playfully scaring his grandson with an orange peel. I understand the importance of Vitamin C, but I think I'll stick with supplements!It's very interesting to note the camera angles throughout the movie. In an unusual approach, director Francis Ford Coppola uses an "eye-level" camera almost exclusively. This gives the viewer the feeling of being part of the scene, especially during the small group meetings within Corleone's dimly lit office. The few exceptions are the overhead shot of Corleone being shot, the Los Angeles cityscape, and a couple of shots at the wedding to emphasize the scale of the event.The famous "Mattress Sequence" was put together by George Lucas (Star Wars fame) for his friend Coppola. This is the segment after the Louis Restaurant shooting where we get a montage of B&W crime photos and newspaper headlines. These are real life crime photos and one of the shots is of Frank Nitti, Al Capone's trusted enforcer.It's quite fascinating to recognize how many "classic" lines of dialogue sprung from the movie, especially when you notice the minimalistic approach to dialogue used by Puzo and Coppola. Much of the communication is non-verbal body language, glances, nods and shrugs ... Brando, especially, is a master at this.One of the more remarkable facets of the film is the transformation of Michael (Al Pacino). We first see him as a dashing war hero relaxing at the wedding with his girlfriend (a baby-faced Diane Keaton). He is very laid back and kind of cocky with the thought that he can rise above the dirty family business. He sees himself as better than that. Watch the subtle changes in his appearance ... his hair, his posture, his eyes, even his hat! As great as Brando is as the Don, it's Pacino's performance that really takes the film to an unprecedented level. It's really fun to compare Michael's even-keeled, calm processing approach to the high-strung, act-now-think-later approach of his brother Sonny.The final note involves actor John Cazale. Here (and in part 2) he plays Fredo as a frightened, insecure puppy who is desperate to find his place. Imagine your father being Vito Corleone and your brothers are Sonny and Michael. It's to be expected that you might be overlooked and overpowered in conversation. The really interesting note about Cazale is that this was his feature film debut. He went on to make 4 more films before cancer took his life in 1978. Cazale made 5 films and all 5 were nominated for Best Picture (both Godfather films, The Conversation, Dog Day Afternoon, The Deer Hunter). He was engaged to Meryl Streep at the time of his death.So the real point here is that if you ever doubt the magic and power of movies ... shut off your phone, close the blinds, take the cannoli, and let The Godfather absorb your thoughts. While you are at it, remember ... it's not personal, it's business (only you shouldn't really believe that).Thanks to Cinemark for making me an offer I couldn't refuse.
Greetings again from the darkness. Nice to see the initial low rating has climbed after more people have discovered it. It is a riveting film that weaves together two heart-wrenching, gritty stories that would otherwise seem unrelated. It is beautifully and realistically photographed and provides no-frills story telling.Director Cary Fukonaga throws the viewer into the middle of the brutally violent gang world at the same time he depicts the frightening desperation of Hondurans making their way through an unforgiving Mexico towards an unwelcoming United States. Trust me ... you don't wish to be part of either of these worlds.The film is at its best when these two worlds collide and Willy/Casper makes a life-changing decision to help a would-be victim. Edgar Flores plays Willy/Casper as the reluctant gang member with a conscience who is just trying to have a life outside the gang. He plays hero to Paulina Gaitan's Sayra, who is on her way to see relatives in New Jersey. Ms. Gaitan reminds of the talented Catalina Sandino Moreno from the excellent "Maria Full of Grace". Willy and Sayra are an odd couple, but seem good for each other, though their destiny seems obvious from the first moment.Some great footage of the inner workings of an ultra violent, macho world of gangs left me wondering how anyone could escape alive. These are very scary people. I can understand some finding this difficult to watch, but I can't understand how it can be mistaken for anything other than fine film-making.
Greetings again from the darkness. While this animated feature absolutely stands on its own, a little background makes it even more interesting.Jacques Tati is legendary among cinephiles. He is responsible for a small, but fascinating clump of films that span 25+ years. His best known are "Mr. Hulot's Holiday" and "Mon Oncle", the latter of which makes a quick appearance in this film. Tati wrote the original script in the 1950's just prior to his career exploding in popularity. Tati originally intended the script to be filmed as a live action production, but he died in 1982 without ever getting around to making the film. Instead, his daughter held onto the script and eventually gave it to filmmaker Sylvain Chomet, who is responsible for the fantastic animated film "The Triplets of Belleville".Mr. Chomet's animated version is quite the tribute to Tatis. The lead character shares not only Tatis' birth name (Tatischeff) but also his look and mannerisms. He is a technically adept magician whose time has come and gone ... his sly skills and popularity replaced by the obnoxious noise of rock stars. He is now confined to run down music halls and finally a department store showroom window. A true relic on display ... ironically hocking the hottest items of the day.Along the way "down" he meets a girl who seems to worship what magic he has left. She cooks and cleans and caters to him. Her attention leads him to spend what little money he has on buying her new shoes and clothes. A sad spectacle played out in real life entirely too many times. The girl's presence does give him a reason to go on ... if for no other reason that to keep up with her whims.Of course, nothing last forever. Neither the magician, nor the girl's adoration. The details of Edinburgh and the characters are a tribute to both the Tatis script and the brilliant eye of Chomet. It is a rather sad and bleak story told with a most unusual pace and nearly no dialogue. The characters movements and the beautiful score leave little doubt what is occurring with each character and in each scene. This is wonderful animated filmmaking and it certainly deserves it's Oscar nomination.
Greetings again from the darkness. Yes, this can be viewed as Hollywood formula with mass appeal and loads of stereotypes and clichés. On the other hand, it can be taken as a very accessible commentary on friendship, companionship and finding the joy in life. I prefer the latter. Either way, it does require a certain suspension of reality. Just ask Roger Ebert, who has made it his personal mission to bash the film.Jack Nicholson and Morgan Freeman are both in prime form, and after a string of weak films, director Rob Reiner does a masterful job of keeping Nicholson from going over the top and from having Freeman kill us with sweetness. Even more impressive is the pacing of the early hospital scenes ... nothing is forced, no line of dialogue or shot seems hurried. This is two patients coming to grips with their situation. While the worldly travels are impressive, my favorite parts of the film are the scenes between the two beds in the same room.On the downside, will someone please tell Hollywood that Morgan Freeman in the cast does not mandate a blasted voice-over from the man? We know he has a great voice, but if the narration adds nothing to the story, please just let the film do its thing.There are some laugh out loud moments and one-liners, but there are also some strong moments of drama ... death has a way of creating those. This is a combination of road trip, buddy film and coming-of-age ... very unusual for two senior citizens! So while the story line surprises are few, sit back and enjoy excellent acting (including Sean Hayes), wonderful direction and a few life lessons. Good stuff for a movie that all ages can enjoy.
Greetings again from the darkness. The Magnolia Theatre in Dallas included this one in its Summer Classic series and it drew a decent sized audience, even though the one-night-only showing was on the same evening as many of the local fireworks shows for Independence Day. If you are unfamiliar with this film, you should know that it garnered director David Lean his first of seven Oscar nominations. In contrast to this "little" film, Lean went on to direct such epics as The Bridge on the River Kwai, Lawrence of Arabia, and Doctor Zhivago.Marital infidelity has long been a favorite topic in Hollywood ... umm ... I mean on screen. Rarely is it treated with such respect as it is here. The story is based on a short play from the great Noel Coward. With numerous scenes added for the film version, it never feels forced or over-written. What really makes this one standout is that the two lead characters are basically happily married people who just stumble into each other and a bond forms ... despite their level-headed acknowledgments that it's not a good idea.Laura (Celia Johnson) and Alec (Trevor Howard) are just going about their daily routines when circumstances bring them together at the hectic train station. We learn this in the opening scene through the internal-dialogue (narration) coming from Laura. See, the bulk of the movie is a flashback as we are really starting at the end. This opening scene is brilliant as we can all relate to the frustration Laura feels as her yappy, but well-meaning friend, unwittingly crashes the going-away party. We see the torture on the faces of Laura and Alec, but it takes the rest of the movie for us to get the full story.The setting of a train station adds a time-sensitive element to the rushed time together. While they bond through tea, food and movies, the train whistle is the reminder that the precious moments are at the mercy of a schedule that won't allow for flexibility. This is no Meet-Cute of which films today seem to think is a required element. No, these are two real adults who have not before noticed an element missing in their lives. Perhaps Coward is saying that nothing must be missing for two kindred spirits to connect, but that the real choice continues to lie within each of us ... loyalty, fidelity and judgment are on constant alert.It should be noted that Celia Johnson's performance really carries the film. She was nominated for an Oscar and is just brilliant in her emotional roller coaster ride. Trevor Howard, a strong character actor, makes a terrific partner for her. They strike us as real people, not movie stars, caught in a real life dilemma. To prevent an over-wrought emotional wringing, we get the comedic balance of conductor Stanley Holloway and his flirtatious ways with prim and proper shopkeeper Joyce Carey. Their playful (yet similar) relationship counteracts the upper-crust complexity of Laura and Alec.The film and its players offer up a few interesting side notes. Celia Johnson was not a fan of acting. She was seduced into playing the role after her friend Noel Coward personally read the script to her. Celia was married to Peter Fleming, older brother of Ian Fleming - he of James Bond fame. Noel Coward had a multi-layered career that included playwright, actor, songwriter and singer, novelist and even director. Mr. Coward personally selected the Rachmaninoff piano concerto that so wonderfully accompanies the movie's happenings. The bookstore shown in the film was later spun off from Boots Pharmacy, which only this year was purchased by Walgreens. Lastly, the film was originally banned in Ireland for showing marital infidelity in such a positive light. Though released in 1945, it wasn't shown in the United States until 1946, thereby pushing the Oscar nominations to 1947.
Greetings again from the darkness. Some movies from the 1940's remain fun to watch for mostly nostalgia reasons. Others still hold up well today and can be enjoyed for the story, script, acting and production value. Director Otto Preminger's Laura falls easily into the latter category. This quasi-film noir, murder mystery, creepy love story is based on the novel from Vera Caspary is probably more respected today than when it was released ... 5 Oscar nominations, but not one for Best Picture.To fully appreciate the film, it helps to know the tortured back story. This was always Otto Preminger's baby, but Daryl Zanuck initially chose a different cast, a different director and a different ending. In the end, Preminger (Anatomy of a Murder) won all of his battles - directing Gene Tierney with the ending he wanted (thanks to Walter Winchell). TCM's Robert Osborne correctly states that the film has one of the best opening lines: "I shall never forget the weekend Laura died". The line is spoken by narrator Waldo Lydecker (great screen name) played by the elegant Clifton Webb.Playing out as mostly a murder investigation led by the detective (Dana Andrews), we are treated to a stream of unusual story choices and only one scene at the police station ... a terrific interrogation scene. Instead, we spend the entire movie on the turf of rich, high society types. There are at least four credible murder suspects and they are strung along by a mostly monotone detective, who only flashes personality on his date night with the dead girl's portrait (well, that's how it plays!) and when he is messing with a pocket baseball toy.Gene Tierney plays the titular Laura, and every time she appears on screen her startling beauty distracts us ... just as it does the other characters in the film. Tierney was only 23 years old when this was filmed, and a couple years later she had a romance with young John F Kennedy (though she became a long time supporter of Richard Nixon). Her tragic personal story was the basis for Agatha Christie's novel and movie The Mirror Crack'd. In the 1950's a suicidal Tierney was treated with shock therapy in a sanatorium, and though she recovered, she struggled for the rest of her life. Her second husband was Houston oil man W Howard Lee, who had previously divorced actress Hedy Lamarr ... another of the all-time screen beauties, who also turned down the lead role in Laura. Lucky guy.The spirit of the movie comes courtesy of the magnificent performance of Clifton Webb as Waldo Lydecker. He is mesmerizing in his ability to take over every scene. This was Webb's first "talkie" feature film - he left for the stage 15 years prior. The 30 year age difference between Waldo and Laura only works because Webb plays it as her society mentor, though it's obvious he is obsessed.Some of the best scenes and banter occurs with Webb and Vincent Price, who plays Laura's fiancé. If you are only accustomed to Vincent Price in horror films, you will certainly get a kick out his odd role here as the virile, insecure fiancé. He also has some very good and uncomfortable scenes with the great Judith Anderson, who clearly lusts after the Price character.The aforementioned portrait of Ms. Tierney was also used in 3 other films, and it's interesting that Tierney and Andrews made 5 total films together. David Raskin's haunting "Laura's Theme" plays throughout the film in various fashions, and Joseph LaShelle won the film's only Oscar - best black & white cinematography. This is certainly one of the best from the 1940's and holds up very well today ... enjoy the many facets of quality filmmaking.
Greetings again from the darkness. Ahh, beautiful people in beautiful places. That's a good start! Throw in some amazing film blood lines: directed by Florian Henckel von Donnersmarck (The Lives of Others), writers Christopher McQuarrie (The Usual Suspects), Julian Fellowes (Gosford Park) and Jerome Salle. Salle wrote and directed the 2005 French film that this one is based on - Anthony Zimmer. The stellar cast is led by Angelina Jolie and Johnny Depp, and includes Paul Bettany, Timothy Dalton, Rufus Sewell and the always solid Steven Berkhoff. No way to mess this one up, right?? Somehow, despite all of that, the final product is a jumble of tired visual stunts, lame dialogue and a twist so obvious it might as well have been in the trailer. The aim was a thriller with involvement of mobsters, stolen millions, boat chases, rooftop shootings, crackling dialogue intertwined with dangerous settings and high fashion. The biggest failing is with the dialogue ... so many wasted moments. The give and take between Depp and Jolie is just outright lame. Where is the payoff for sitting through the endless string of stupid moves from Scotland Yard inspectors? The police tail on Jolie's character looked like something from the Pink Panther movies ... only it is played straight! Same with the interactions between the two stars. How about some playful banter? Did Depp's character need to be so dull? A math teacher from Wisconsin. Really? And poor Angelina. She is used as a flesh and blood Jessica from Who Framed Roger Rabbit. EVERYTHING about her is exaggerated! Yet, she still flashes her glances like her characters from Salt or any other action film she has upgraded over the years. It just doesn't work here.And I have to mention the absurdity of the chase scenes through the Venice canal. It's not very often a boat chase scene is limited to 4 knots speed. How could the shooters miss time after time? At least we were treated to some stunning shots of Venice. That's the only positive I can offer for this one.
Greetings again from the darkness. Depending upon your expectations for animated films, you will either find this latest from DreamWorks to be nice entertainment for kids, or a bit too simplistic for adults. Twenty years ago Pixar ushered in a golden age of animation with the first Toy Story, and the grading curve was forever changed. If you can accept that not every animated film need be an instant classic, the odds are good that kids will find this to be a very enjoyable hour and a half.Oh (yes, that's his name) is the friendliest and most energetic of all the Boovs, a society of technologically advanced aliens who change color based on emotions (similar to a mood ring). The Boovs also excel at running from adversity  especially when their enemy Gorg is chasing. When Captain Smek decides his Boovs will take over earth, he orders the banishment of all humans to Australia (kind of funny when you think about the history of that continent). Left behind is one youngster named Tip (short for Gratuity Tucci, one of the oddest ever screen names for a kid) and her pet, Pig the Cat. It turns out both Oh and Tip are misfits in their own world, and are forced to team up so that Oh can redeem himself and Tip can be reunited with her mother.The main (and obvious) themes are: stay true to yourself, accept others for what they are (even if they are different from you), and family is important and worth fighting for. Tip is kind of a confusing character because she knows how to drive a car, but admits to being a 7th grader originally from Barbados. Oh has no Boov friends because he is so darned personable and he is always making mistakes  usually due to his desire to connect with others. Captain Smek's false confidence catapults him into a leadership position, based mostly on his ability to retreat from the difficult decisions. Even the villain Gorg (who looks/dresses like Shredder from Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles) is simply misunderstood.As you would expect, there is humor throughout  most of it at a level that those under age 11 will appreciate (that's not a bad thing). These laughs come courtesy of bubble wrap, a cookbook, awkward dancing, and a hover car that runs on fast food staples like Nacho Mama, Busta Lime frozen drinks, and Burrito Torpedoes. There is a recurring gag showing clumps of earthly items deemed unnecessary by the Boovs, and this gives adults in the audience something to track.Crucial to the film's success is the voice acting. Oh is voiced by Jim Parsons as an E.T. version of Sheldon Cooper from "The Big Bang Theory". His twisted version of the English language ("sad-mad") is good for a few chuckles, but mostly his eagerness and openness make Oh a character kids will care about. Rihanna voices Tip, and has at least 3 songs on the soundtrack. She does well in capturing the strength and vulnerability of this character who is on a mission to find her mother. Also fun is hearing Matt Jones as Kyle, the 'is he or is he not' friend of Oh. Fans of "Breaking Bad" will recognize Mr. Jones as Badger from that series. Not quite as effective are Jennifer Lopez as Tip's mother and Steve Martin as Captain Smek. Mr. Martin especially could have brought more spark and color to his role.Director Tim Johnson (Over the Hedge, Antz) took the source material from Adam Rex's book "The True Meaning of Smekday" and delivered an animated film with a refreshing approach  it doesn't feature violence, inappropriate humor or a smart-ass kid that disrespects adults. It's a shame that the unique color palette is quashed by the 3-D technology  and what's up with the awful title?  but overall, this is one the kids can enjoy (especially if they are struggling to fit in).
Greetings again from the darkness. Director Richard Linklater is an odd chap. His genius is obvious in such films as "Dazed and Confused" and "School of Rock". But then he will turn around and blunder with an absolute mess like "Fast Food Nation". Based on Eric Schlosser's best selling and very interesting book of the same title, Linklater figured dramatizing the book's subject matter would make it more appealing and allow it to reach an even larger audience. Not a bad thought indeed.However, the finished product is so jumbled and garbled that one walks out not even knowing if Mr. Linklater was trying to make a point, much less what point or points he might have had in mind. It is impossible to discern if he is bashing greedy big business, the fast food industry in particular, the treatment of illegal aliens, making a point about the internal stress created by corporate politics, commenting on small time single parenting, the struggles of long time land owners or bullies in general. All of these themes are brought up, but none are actually given enough time to have any real impact.The amazing part of this film is the cast who couldn't wait to jump on board with Linklater and a best selling book. The list includes Greg Kinnear, Wilmer Valderama, Bobby Cannavale ("Station Agent"), Luis Guzman, Paul Dano ("Little Miss Sunshine"), Patricia Arquette, Esai Morales, Kris Kristofferson (in the film's best segment), Bruce Willis, singer Avril Lavigne, Lou Taylor Pucci ("Thumbsucker") and in the film's best performance, Catalina Sandino Moreno ("Maria Full of Grace").The film is really nothing more than a series of vignettes supposedly tied together with a large fast food chain. The best of these films leave the viewer in amazement at how the stories all come together. This one left me in amazement that Mr. Linklater ever said "that's it. that's exactly how I want it." As a fan of his, I am very disappointed that he did.
Greetings again from the darkness. Directed by Shane Acker with screenplay by Pamela Pettler, the influence of producer Tim Burton cannot be missed, with recollections of Edward Scissorhands, Beetlejuice and even Frankenweenie. And the ties to Wizard of Oz and 2001 are inescapable.The reason this one scores as high as it does is purely visual. The animation is spectacular and ground-breaking. Yes, it is pretty bleak, but these are post-apocalyptic times, remember! The details and texture of the visuals are extraordinary.Sadly, I found the story flat out ridiculous and the characters underplayed. Christopher Plummer seems to be have found a second career voicing evil guys ... here playing the frightened leader #1. Jennifer Connelly found a movie she couldn't screw up voicing the near superhero #7 (is it just me or does #7 look a bit heavy - surprised the skeletal Connelly agreed to play her). Elijah Wood voice the chosen one sent by the originating scientist to save the world from his misused powerful machine monster.Religious and evil government commentary abounds, and I found most of it not up to par. Still the visuals are fascinating and I can't wait to see where this animation heads in future, better films.
Greetings again from the darkness. The trick here is to convey enough without ruining anything. No, it's not a movie filled with twists and mystery, but rather it's a journey unlike we have previously seen on screen. Director Richard Linklater is known for his fascination with time as a key element in movies. Of course, that's obvious in his "Before" trilogy (the same two characters from 1995-2013), but think also of Dazed and Confused, School of Rock, and Bernie. The passage of time is crucial in each, but Boyhood takes it to a whole new level.Linklater and the 4 main characters have congregated and filmed a few days each year ... for 12 years. We watch a fictionalized family mark the passage of time. You might be familiar with director Michael Apted's excellent "Up" documentary series, where he reunites with his same group of people every 7 years. In Linklater's experiment, we watch Mason (Ellar Coltrane) and Samantha (Lorelei Linklater, Richard's real life daughter) progress from adolescence to college age in under 3 hours. If you are a parent, you have experienced the quick passage of time when it comes to watching your kids grow. It's incredibly emotional to watch a young, fresh faced Mason grow into a college aged young man right in front of us.Linklater certainly got lucky with the two kids he cast at young ages. Their development and commitment to the project is the heart of the film. And if that weren't enough, we also see Patricia Arquette and Ethan Hawke as their mom and dad through the years. Although they are separated when the film begins, we witness the changes each go through in their own lives. This is evolution, not creation. We don't get a new actor at each stage, instead we witness the transformations of all four.Patricia Arquette's character is a solid mom, while at the same time attempting to figure out her own life. Her less-than-stellar choices in men have quite the influence on Mason and Samantha ... the most dramatic being Ted (Steven Chester Prince) who sinks deeper into frustration, depression, alcoholism and anger. It's a thankless role, but it's a guy we have all known in life.So the film is about parenthood, childhood, adulthood, and family relationships. It's about the moments in time - the snapshots that become the fiber of our being. The shaping of people is an ongoing process and adult drama plays a role for all ages. As character flaws are exposed, choices are made that have a lasting impact.The passage of time is relayed not just through the kids looking older, but also through the usage of technology, music and pop culture. All 4 of the main actors are excellent, but Patricia Arquette and Ellar Coltrane are truly exceptional. Though the film is not a traditional narrative, it would be wonderful if both received some awards attention. They are that good.A nod of appreciation should go out to IFC for taking the risk on such an unusual project. Linklater offers up an experiment WITH time, rather than an experiment IN time. Most studios would not be patient for 12 years, but their risk clearly pays off with something that must be experienced to really understand. My hope is that many will give this one a shot, and feel appreciative of all those involved for their willingness to put up funding ... or just as importantly, their time.
Greetings again from the darkness. I view Tom Hanks as one of the all-time giants among movie actors. He is true Hollywood royalty. When I heard he was producing, directing, co-writing and starring in a new film, I assumed it was his first step in becoming the new Clint Eastwood. Sadly, Mr. Hanks broke the number rule of movie-making: have a point to make or a story to tell. What we get is a 1980's flashback when mainstream movies could be successful just by putting nice people on screen.And nice people is what we get. Tom Hanks plays the ultimate nice guy as Larry Crowne. Crowne is the type who attracts nice people and makes them even nicer. Even when he loses his job, we never doubt that this nice guy will land on his feet and even be better off eventually. Oh no you don't ... stop trying to guess the ending! Other nice people are ... EVERY STUDENT in the speech class taught by Ms. Roberts, the L.A. scooter club that recruits Crowne, the Marine owner of a diner who hires Crowne, the lottery-winning neighbors of Crowne and the dean of students at the community college. The nicest one of all is Talia, played delightfully by Gugu Mbatha-Raw (from the awful "Undercovers" show that lasted less than one season).The closest thing to a bad guy is Roberts' husband played by Bryan Cranston (Breaking Bad). His fault? He is a bit lazy (after writing two books) and he likes to look at swimsuit models on the internet. Sure, when the movie starts, Ms. Roberts character is at her lowest. She clearly drinks too much to mask her misery, though it's never clear just why she is so miserable.But this is not a movie about conflict or tension or anything not nice ... even though it begins with a nice guy getting laid off from his job. The story and screenplay are co-written by Hanks and Nia Vardalos. You will remember her as the creative force behind the gem "My Big Fat Greek Wedding". Unfortunately, this film is nowhere close to the level of that one.If Mr. Hanks' goal is to become an important filmmaker in the vein of Clint Eastwood, or even Frank Capra, he will need to study the films that have made him rich and famous. Or at least study the best screwball comedies or rom-coms. A good movie must have CONFLICT! There needs to be something that creates interest for the viewer. Simple, bland, generic, nice, likable and swell can all play a part ... but they can't be EVERY part! My two favorite things about the film are George Takei and Gugu Mbatha-Raw. Mr. Takei (of Star Trek fame) provides some of the few laughs in the film as a very meticulous Economics professor. His voice and mannerisms inspire us to smile and ultimately laugh outloud. Gugu is just terrific as the idealistic free-spirit who transforms Crowne and lights up her every scene. Can't wait to see what she does next.As you might expect, supporting actors lined up to work with Hanks and Julia. Among those not mentioned above are Cedric the Entertainer and Taraji B. Henson (Crowne's neighbors), Wilmer Valderrama (Gugu's boyfriend), Rita Wilson (the mortgage officer), Pam Grier (professor), Grace Gummel (Meryl Streep's daughter as the 'pasta' speech student), and it's always nice to see Bob Stevenson on screen. He is one of the more underutilized deadpan comedic talents around.There is little doubt that this film will find an audience. An audience that demands little from a movie. There is nothing wrong with two hours of back-slapping and giddy smiling ... as long as you get a story to go along with it.
Greetings again from the darkness. The best place to start with this one is by saying what it isn't. It is not a documentary. It is not a very detailed history lesson. It is not the best biography of the man. It is not a behind-the-scenes of the FBI. What it is ... another piece of quality filmmaking from Clint Eastwood. It's an overview of J. Edgar Hoover and his nearly 50 years of civil service under 8 U.S. Presidents.The screenplay is from Dustin Lance Black, who also wrote the script for Milk, based on the story of Harvey Milk (played by Sean Penn). Clearly, Eastwood and Black had no interest in setting forth an historical drama that couldn't possibly be told within a two hour film structure. No, this is more of a fat-free character study that hits only a few of the highlights from an enigmatic man's fascinating career. With so few available details about Hoover's personal life, some speculation is required ... but Eastwood walks a tightrope so as to make neither a statement nor mockery.Therein lies the only problem with the film. While hypnotic to watch, we are left with an empty feeling when it's over. How can that be? This man built the foundation of the FBI. He instigated the fingerprint system. He armed the secret police. His agency tracked down notorious gangsters. He led an anti-communist movement. He was in the middle of the investigation for the Lindbergh baby kidnapping. He supposedly kept secret files on most politicians and celebrities. He viewed the security of Americans as his responsibility. He was smack dab in the middle of almost 50 years of American history ... all while being a power-hungry, paranoid mama's boy who may have been, in her words, a daffodil.An elderly Hoover's own words tell his story as he dictates his memoirs. We are told that his memories of these stories are blurred and he takes a few liberties to say the least. He longed to be the comic book hero like his own G-Men. He longed to be recognized for his contributions, even to the point of desiring a level of celebrity. In his mind, he was the face of national security and the hero cuffing many outlaws. In reality, he was also the black-mailing schemer who so frightened Presidents with his secret files, that all 8 of them backed off firing him. He could be viewed as the ultimate survivor in a town where few careers last so long and cross party lines.The film picks up in 1919 when Hoover is a youngster making a name for himself as an all-work, no play type. That reputation stuck with him until the end. When he was first promoted, he hired Helen Gandy (Naomi Watts)to be his secretary. In one of the most remarkable hires of all time, she sticks with him until his death in 1972. Staunchly loyal to Hoover and totally dedicated to her job, Ms. Gandy helped Hoover with decisions and processes throughout. The other member of his inner circle was Clyde Tolson (Armie Hammer). Tolson was Hoover's right-hand man at the bureau, his trusted adviser, his daily lunch partner, and speculation never ceased on their personal ties.Judi Dench plays Annie Hoover, J Edgar's controlling mother, who he lived with until her death. She was also his adviser, supporter and probably a factor in his stunted social skills. We also get glimpses of how he dealt with Robert Kennedy (Jeffrey Donovan) and his overall lack of respect for John Kennedy, Martin Luther King, Jr. and Richard Nixon. The Lindbergh case plays a key role because Hoover used it to gain more power for his bureau and increase funding for weapons, forensic labs and resources.As for Leonardo DiCaprio, it's difficult to explain just how outstanding his performance is. It could have been a caricature, but instead he affords Hoover the respect his place in history demands. The 50 years of aging through make-up can be startling, especially since the time lines are mixed up throughout. His speech pattern mimics Hoover's, as does the growing waist line. There are some Citizen Kane elements at work in how the story is told and how it's filmed, but Eastwood wouldn't shy away from such comparisons.If you want real details on Hoover, there are some very in-depth biographies out there. The number of documentaries and history books for this era are limitless. What Eastwood delivers here is an introduction to J Edgar Hoover. It is interesting enough to watch, and Leonardo's performance is a must-see, but the film lacks the depth warranted by the full story.
Greetings again from the darkness. Combine "Sin City" and the "Bourne" series, toss in some humor and add a significant amount of violence and action and you get director Timur Bekmambetov's film version of Mark Millar's comic book.Suspension of belief is a requirement for enjoying this movie, but if you can do that, it is actually a good bit of fun. James McAvoy in his first action hero role, while Angelina Jolie is utilized to perfection. By that I mean, she smirks a lot and prowls around like a panther flashing that very unique face and body of hers. Think of her in "Gone in 60 Seconds" and "Mr and Mrs Smith" ... not a lot of dialogue, but plenty of fast action. McAvoy proves to be a good mix of ultimate slacker in the beginning and transformed assassin by the mid point.The basis of the story is actually very creative. McAvoy is the lone offspring of the world's deadliest assassin, but he is stuck in a office cubicle being bullied by his fat, female boss at work and humiliated by his not-impressed girlfriend at home. The rest of the film features him trying to find out who he really is. Well, actually he spends the rest of the film learning to unleash the assassin buried inside! The action scenes are stellar and push the envelope. The opening sequence featuring David O'Hare ("The Departed") is one of the coolest scenes you will find. Also impressive is the longest train wreck ever presented on film. Lending a hand in all of this is Morgan Freeman as the leader of the Fraternity, rapper Common as an assassin, Terence Stamp in a brief, but crucial role, and the under-appreciated Thomas Kretschmann ("King Kong", "U-571") as the rogue assassin everyone is out to kill. All of this is capped off with an excellent Danny Elfman score and some Nine Inch Nails headbanging.
Greetings again from the darkness. The psychotic,sadistic son of Saddam Hussein is the subject of this film from director Lee Tamahori. Tamahori has a history of colorful films with terrific visuals that are somewhat lacking in substance. This latest film falls right in line, although it had much potential.The key reason to see this one is the explosive performance(s) of Dominic Cooper. He plays two characters who happen to look identical, but are polar opposites in thought and morals. As Latif Yahia, Cooper plays a genuinely nice citizen of Iraq who gets forced into the role of "fiday" or body double for Saddam's evil son Uday. For lack of a better description, Uday is psychotic and thrills only at abuse of power. This is not political corruption per se, because Uday has very little role in the Saddam government. But it is the most frightening example of absolute power corrupted.This has to be an actor's dream come true ... playing two such different characters, one of which requires your actions to go over the top. Cooper is best known for his much different roles in Mamma Mia and An Education. His performance ranks with Al Pacino in Scarface and Vincent Cassel in Mesrine. The movie is very difficult to watch because of the actions of this guy, but Cooper's performance makes it worthwhile.The support work is provided by Ludivine Sagnier (Swimming Pool) as Uday's lover, who also risks her life by getting cozy with Latif. I am really not sure about this character and although I am a fan of Sagnier, this story line seemed to take away from the battle of wits between Uday and Latif. Combine that with the movie being about 10-15 minutes too long, and I believe the script could have been tightened up resulting in an improved movie.
Greetings again from the darkness. Teaming up again after "Pride and Prejudice" are director Joe Wright and the finally maturing Keira Knightley. This time they tackle Ian McEwan's monster novel and for the most part deliver a tense, emotional ride.Knightley and James McAvoy ("The Last King of Scotland") are very good and very believable together, but the "star" of the film is Knightley's wicked lil sis played by three actresses - Saoirse Ronan (age 13), the weak link of Ramola Garai (age 18) and a perfectly cast Vanessa Redgrave as the elder Briony wrapping the story up for the viewer in a TV interview for her final novel. By the way, the interviewer in that scene is "The English Patient" director Anthony Minghella.Not to give anything away, but normally the story is what makes a film enjoyable for me. Here, I actually admired the film's structure and delivery of the story ... definitely not dumbed down the way so many book-to-movie projects are. Certainly the middle of the film drags a bit as McAvoy wanders through the countryside and 18 yr old Briony pays her penance as a war nurse, but the first 45 minutes of the film are truly outstanding.Just a warning, this is not the feel good, sappy Hollywood garbage that many think it is. Many scenes are extremely uncomfortable to watch and I heard more than a few sniffles coming from the crowd. The score is outstanding and expertly conveys depth to many scenes ... especially the remarkable long cut as McAvoy walks through the beach camp for soldiers.Excellent support work from Brenda Blethyn and Benedict Cumberbatch ("Amazing Grace"), and again the elegant Ms. Redgrave perfectly captures Briony's struggle for the truth and redemption and "atonement".
Greetings again from the darkness. "Rounders" director John Dahl delivers a dark comedy with some terrific lines and a very entertaining alcoholic hit man played by Sir Ben Kingsley. The very odd selection of Kingsley's love interest is Tea Leoni, who for whatever reason, just can't find the right role for her talent.Much suspension of belief, logic and reality must occur by the viewer, but if you can, then you will find a different type of film that has some moments of genius. It is a bit of a Coen Brothers starter kit and could have had much more dark humor, but there is enough for a good time. The downside is the convoluted multiple story lines of family honor/dishonor, mob life, AA meetings, loneliness, etc etc. Too many bits that don't quite make a whole.Decent support work Dennis Farina, Philip Baker Hall and Owen Wilson who reprise any number of their previous roles, but special mention must go to Bill Pullman who really is a standout as one of the oddest Realtors you will ever run across. The whole AA story line is a bit preachy and the climax is a bit ridiculous, but still it is a fun little movie that is not the usual Hollywood fluff.Special mention must also go out to the fine and unusual soundtrack and also some of the odd lighting and shots. Fun stuff for movie nuts.
Greetings again from the darkness. Writer Diablo Cody and Director Jason Reitman reunite for the first time since their breakout hit "Juno". In that fine film, we were treated to many optimistic and sarcastic life lessons from a very likable, and easy to cheer for, teenage girl. This time around we get the caustic, childlike self-centeredness of a mid-30's alcoholic sadly trying to recapture the magic of her high school years as the prom queen dating the coolest guy.Ms. Cody and Mr. Reitman deserve much credit for steering clear of the Hollywood traditions of redemption, remorse, and turning over a new leaf. In fact, we probably dislike Mavis (Charlize Theron) even more as the movie ends than we did in the film's first 5 minutes, if that's even possible. It takes courage as a filmmaker to have a lead character who is disliked through the entire movie, not just by the people in her life, but also by the audience. It also takes a special actress to pull this off. If you saw Theron in her Oscar winning role in "Monster", believe me when I say that she is equally unsympathetic here ... though she does commit fewer actual crimes.This film is erroneously marketed as a smart comedy. While there are some funny elements, it's difficult to find much humor in someone who is so unstable and narcissistic. Wisely, the script provides us with Matt (Patton Oswalt) as the voice of reason. He sees through the Mavis mask and speaks directly in his attempts to divert her from her plan. That plan is to break up the marriage of her high school sweetheart (Patrick Wilson). Oh yeah, he just happens to be happily married (Elizabeth Reaser) with a newborn baby.The best scenes of the film are between Mavis and Matt. She is oblivious to her negative effect on others, while he shoots her straight while avoiding his own harsh reality. See, Matt was the victim of a vicious hate crime, which left his leg (and other things) mangled. His own view of life is why he can see right through Mavis and her issues. While I so admire the basis of the script, I just believe there is a missing element. The element of hope and optimism. Heck, even when Mavis admits she "might be an alcoholic", her parents shrug it off and change topics. Sometimes crying out for help just isn't enough.The film is worth seeing for the performances of Theron and Oswalt, as well as for the unique script. Just don't get tricked into believing it's some laugh riot with a fairy tale ending. Mavis is a ghost writer for teen novels, and she writes the latest as she lives this nightmare of a trip back home. My only real question ... is she mature enough to write for teens?
Greetings again from the darkness. Haven't looked at next week's new releases yet, but I am almost hoping for a rom-com after watching this film and "Animal Kingdom" back to back. That's a couple of very rough, though well made films.Jacques Mesrine was an infamous French outlaw/bank robber/kidnapper who actually began to feed on his media coverage. This film, as well as part 2, are based on his own writings while he was incarcerated. Somehow Vincent Cassel captures the pure evil of Mesrine and presents him as the charismatic and powerful figure he evidently was.Having apparently lost his soul during the war in Algeria, Mesrine joins forces with a local crime lord played by French acting legend Gerard Depardieu. Their wake of criminal activity is only eclipsed by the pile of bodies. No surprise that Mesrine's wife runs from him and he then hooks up with Jeanne, played by Cecile DeFrance. They seem to be the perfect match and quickly become known as the French Bonnie and Clyde. Only they are much more violent and brutal.Mesrine manages a daring prison escape and even attempts to break back into the same prison to keep a promise of helping other prisoners escape. Director Jean-Francois Richet does an excellent job of displaying the menace of Mesrine and the absolute lack of morals he flashes.The film never drags even while he is on the lam through Canada and the U.S. Since the film is broken into two parts (Public Enemy #1 will be released in a few weeks), I found it very interesting that the first films opens with what appears to be the end of part two. Maybe I am wrong, but that's how it looks.The score is terrific and Mr. Cassel delivers his best performance yet. Not sure I recommend it as a double feature with "Animal Kingdom". They are both excellent films, but that's an overload of crime and violence for one weekend!
Greetings again from the darkness. The great Richard Pryor had a portion of his act dedicated to having a heart attack, based on his real life experience. I guess if he can generate laughter from a coronary, there is no reason writer Will Reiser and director Jonathan Levine (The Wackness) can't view Cancer as Comedy. There is little doubt that the subject matter of this film will limit its audience, but for those brave souls who give it a shot, I believe you will find it funny, touching and insightful.The film introduces us to Adam (Joseph Gordon-Levitt) who is a very nice, very normal, very low-key guy who works at a radio station as a writer ... a very conscientious radio writer. Adam experiences a nagging pain in his back, which is unusual for a healthy 27 year old. After a few tests, the emotionless doctor informs him that he has a rare spinal cancer ... also very unusual for a healthy 27 year old. From this point forward, the film borders on brilliance at times.Adam's girlfriend is played by Bryce Dallas Howard; his mother by Angelica Huston; and his best friend by Seth Rogen. Each reacts in different ways to Adam's diagnosis, but what's really interesting is not just how these people react, but also how Adam reacts. He moves forward in his meticulous manner, but all the while we know the emotions are brewing. We see this in his sessions with his therapist-in-training played by Anna Kendrick.Seth Rogen's character is basically a carbon copy of his act in 40 Year Old Virgin. He spews profane one-liners faster than our ears can process. Despite the aggressive front, Rogen's character is a friend with a heart ... and one who doesn't hesitate to share his medicinal marijuana.So while Rogen's character generates much of the laughter, the real treasure of this film is in the subtleties of each character in certain moments ... and each character has their moment. Many will compare this to Adam Sandler's film Funny People, which also starred Seth Rogen. But this movie has infinitely more depth and substance than that one offered.My warning: brace yourself. My theatre was filled with tears and sniffles, with significant laugh out loud moments mixed in. This is an emotional, self-reflective film that will confound you as you inexplicably laugh while listening to cancer talk.
Greetings again from the darkness. Social commentary does not automatically make a movie "smart". In fact, commentary done poorly could be labeled the exact opposite. Writer/Director Neil Blomkamp's critically acclaimed sci-fi feature District 9 was creative in its approach to social issues. Unfortunately, his follow-up is a sloppy, big budget mess with too many writing shortcuts and what may be the worst performances of Jodie Foster's career.Earth in the year 2154 is an over-populated, polluted disaster that looks like what we saw in Wall-E, only with people. Earth is so bad, it has been evacuated by the ultra-rich ... an obvious statement on the "one percenters". The poor and downtrodden earthlings spend their lives dreaming of getting to Elysium, the space station paradise that houses the elite and is only a 19 minute shuttle ride away. On Elysium, the houses are stunning and the lawns perfectly manicured. Oh, and technology has re-imagined tanning booths into a medical marvel that can cure anything from zits to cancer. This advancement is the main reason earthlings risk everything to reach Elysium. See those poor folks have only shoddy hospitals ... an obvious statement on universal healthcare.After an industrial accident, Max (Matt Damon)is desperate to reach Elysium so he can save his own life. As expected, his selfishness evolves into focused heroism after he runs into his childhood crush Frey (Alice Braga) and her leukemia-stricken daughter. Getting yourself to Elysium is not so easy thanks to the protective nature of Defense Secretary Delacourt (Jodie Foster). She is working with greedy businessman William Fichtner and earth-based mercenary Sharlto Copley to plot her political coup on Elysium ... just in case you forgot that the rich are really bad people.There is a data theft plot that, if re-directed, could open up the Elysium advantages to the entire population ... an obvious statement on open immigration. In between all of the political statements Blomkamp does throw in plenty of explosions, gun fights, aggressive robots and enough CGI effects to keep any sci-fi fan entertained. There is even a battle of exoskeleton suits between Copley and Damon. Where Arnold once said "Get your a** to Mars", I can't in good faith say the same thing about Elysium.
Greetings again from the darkness. Director Paul Greengrass seems to thrive on finding the line for unbearable tension and hectic, claustrophobic action. He gained fame for helming The Bourne Supremacy and The Borne Ultimatum, but this one has more in common with his excellent United 93. Somehow he keeps us gripping the armrests despite knowing full well how the story ends. That is a talented filmmaker.What adds to the stressed-filled fun here is that the world's greatest everyman, Tom Hanks, meets his match with fire-eyed Somalian pirate Muse, played by first time actor Barkhad Abdi. The scenes pitting these two against each other are fascinating studies and the perfect example of vastly different worlds colliding. Hanks plays Captain Phillips, who is charged with guiding the cargo ship Maersk Alabama through the pirate filled waters. Phillips is not the warmest of guys, but seems to be a competent captain with respect from the crew.Most of us remember watching on TV in 2009 as the 5 day sequence ended thanks to yet another perfectly executed Navy SEALs rescue mission. Greengrass does a terrific job of reenacting this moment. The other two moments that are sure to leave an impression both involve Mr. Hanks. The initial scene on the bridge as the pirates assume control of the ship ... when Muse tells Phillips that he is now the captain, we see a flash of surrender in Phillips' face. A stunning scene for both Hanks and Abdi (and congrats to Abdi for going toe to toe with the acting legend). The other scene worthy of discussion occurs after the rescue as Captain Phillips is escorted to sick bay to be checked out. His "in shock" actions are startling and very brave for an actor. Some may argue that Hanks took it too far, but I would encourage you to put yourself in that lifeboat and determine just how courageous you would be. Abdi also has a scene where he first discovers this is an American ship. He reacts as if he has won the lottery.Some scandal surrounds this story as there is a lawsuit against Maersk and Phillips brought by members of the crew. The contention being that Phillips knowingly steered the ship too close to the pirate waters in order to save time and money. Phillips went on to write a best selling book recounting the ordeal and he also returned to his job as ship captain. Hanks was the perfect choice to play Phillips as the story is more about a regular guy being thrust into an extraordinary situation. Phillips is no superhero ... he doesn't disarm four pirates. Instead, he uses guts and a will to live ... things we all hope we would exhibit should we ever find ourselves in such an awful situation.
Need for Speed is a great movie with a very enjoyable storyline and a very talented cast.The story is certainly nothing new or original,and the trailers don't make it seem like its going to be any different to the Fast and Furious movies but it is very enjoyable and dosen't feel like a carbon copy of previous car related films.What made this movie for me was its extremely confident cast,I am a huge fan of Aaron Paul,because of Breaking Bad of course,and I didn't think he would be able to deliver the same level of great acting as he does in Breaking Bad,but,while Tobey Marshall is certainly not Jesse Pinkman,he still delivers an outstanding performance,he clearly has a great movie career ahead of him and this is his first film since Breaking Bad finished,and there's no doubt he has more great performances ahead of him.I also really enjoyed Imogen Potts and Dominic Copper's performance,these are two actors I've heard of,but haven't seen in anything previously,but after seeing them in this I look forward to seeing them in more films.After he is let out of prison,Tobey Marshall sets out to seek revenge against the man who framed him for the death of his friend.
Greetings again from the darkness. As we get older, we expect to learn from our experiences. That's exactly what happened here. It's been almost two years to the day since The Expendables hit theatres. That first entry was directed, produced, written by, and starred Sylvester Stallone. This time around Sly sticks to acting and a script credit. Con Air director Simon West is now at the helm and the film clearly benefits from better action, improved characters and especially MUCH more humor ... the key reason it works.Most of the familiar faces are back. Stallone as Barney, the leader of this pack of mercenaries; Jason Statham as Christmas; Dolph Lundgren as Gunner; Terry Crews as Hale Caesar; Randy Couture as Toll Road; and Jet Li as Yin Yang, though he is unfortunately only in the pre-opening credits sequence. Also back, after brief but funny cameos in the first, are Bruce Willis as Church, and Arnold Schwarzenegger as Trench. If somehow that's not enough testosterone for you, the second installment also provides Liam Hemsworth as Billy the Kid, Jean-Claude Van Damme as Villain (pronounced vi-LANE, get it?), martial arts expert Scott Adkins, and 72 year old Chuck Norris as Booker ... the "Lone Wolf" soldier.For sake of balance, the female lead is played by Nan Yu as Maggie. She is a brilliant fighter, speaks multiple languages, yet dumb enough to fall for Barney (guessing that was Stallone's contribution to the script). While the story is necessarily simple, her role is vital in that she softens some scenes, while at the same time holding her own with the sea of steroid and botox stars.This version is extremely likable and filled with tongue-in-cheek humor, sarcasm and wit. The guys are not hesitant about poking fun at themselves or each other ... all the while surrounded by nearly non-stop action, gun play, missile firing and other forms of over-the-top violence and action. In other words, it's exactly what we hoped it would be! (www.moviereviewsfromthedark.wordpress.com)
Greetings again from the darkness. Yes, this is the reuniting of the director and the star of "Gladiator". For some reason, Ridley Scott and Russell Crowe decided to remake "Under the Tuscan Sun". Okay, so it may not really be a remake, but it is a wimpy version of Peter Mayle's novel. Twenty years ago, Alan Alda would have been cast in Mr. Crowe's role. The transition of the high-powered Gordon Gekko type into an ultra-sensitive stop-and-smell-the roses guy is painful to watch for all respectable men. Women, on the other hand, will love it.The flashback scenes with Freddie Highmore ("Charlie and Chocolate Factory") as the young Crowe and his mentor uncle, played by Albert Finney are actually fun to watch, although there are far too few of those scenes. Marion Cotillard plays the horribly named Fanny Chenal, the magical French bistro owner who melts Crowe's iceberg heart. Ms. Cotillard actually flashes some nice acting in one scene towards the end. Other than that, the pain of watching tough guy Crowe play with his eye glasses and act effeminate is just torturous.For a date movie or a chick's night out, the film is just fine. Other than that, I say Ridley and Russell owe me something very special in their next reunion ... otherwise, just say no.
Greetings again from the darkness. One of the key characteristics of Steve Jobs was that he was constantly striving for perfection. Not just good. Not just acceptable. He wanted the perfect product in the perfect package sold in the perfect store. Whether or not you are a fan of Jobs and Apple, it's painful to watch a middling movie about the man and the company that seems to strive for very little ... and certainly not perfection.Ashton Kutcher delivers an impersonation of Jobs complete with beady eyes, slumped shoulders and awkward gait. This is not one of those biopics where the performer disappears into the famous character. We never forget that we are watching Kutcher's attempt to act and sound like Jobs. But Kutcher is far from the worst part of the movie ... in fact, he is fine, given what he has to work with.The real issue with the movie is that it just offers no real insight into the man or the company. Instead we see only the headlines: Jobs drops out, Jobs goes barefooted, Jobs is a jerk, Jobs takes advantage of Woz, Jobs does drugs, Jobs eats fruit, Jobs is a jerk, Jobs is booted out, Jobs comes back, Jobs is a jerk.Directed by Joshua Michael Stern (Swing Vote), the film is written by first time screenwriter Matt Whiteley. This seems inexplicable to me. A writer with no credits is charged with coming up with a script on one of the most enigmatic and complex and successful people of our times. In fact, the result is what one would expect ... a made-for-TV type glossy presentation that doesn't dig too deep or offer any insight. In short, the kind of movie that Steve Jobs would have despised.
Greetings again from the darkness. Every now and then we experience the convergence of a creative team who each bring their "A" game. Director Ridley Scott has had ups and downs but certainly was focused on this project. Writer Steve Zaillan has delivered a couple of screenplays along the way that were probably nothing more than paychecks. We all know Denzel Washington has been known to work for the money and not the art. This group partners here with acting stud Russell Crowe to remind us of how cool movies can be.One of the more fascinating things about the film is how the two powerful leads don't share a scene until 80% of the film is over. Based on a true story, Denzel plays Harlem drug lord Frank Lucas as a street wise, true to the gangster code, businessman on a mission. It is my favorite Denzel role ever. He moves just like an animal on the prowl, eyes always moving ... until he sends the cold stare at someone before uttering "My Man" ... which is usually one of the last things they hear.Crowe is just tremendous as the squeaky clean cop, who sucks as a father and husband, but is true to the code of justice and law. A pariah for turning in a trunk load of untraceable cash, Crowe is moved to a special drug investigative unit and he takes the assignment very seriously indeed! Watching him peel back the layers of the investigation and having it turn on a $50,000 fur coat and microwave oven, really is compelling. Once again, Crowe is at his peak. OK, the guy had a momentary lapse in "A Good Year" (directed by Ridley Scott) but his resume is tough to match by most any actor.The supporting cast is stellar and affecting. For some reason, he is not listed in the credits, but Clarence Williams III is Bumpy, Lucas' boss and mentor. Williams is perfect for the tough, yet pensive leader. Josh Brolin ("Grindhouse") is chilling as the corrupt NY detective. I wanted to shoot him myself. Long lost Armand Assante is captivating as a drug lord who just can't compete with Lucas, so he partners up. Cuba Gooding, jr. escapes from crappy kid movies long enough to play a frightening gangster who loves the spotlight and doesn't enjoy being dissed. Chiwetel Ejiofor, Ruby Dee and Joe Morton all have nice turns as well.The final showdown with Denzel and Crowe reminds a bit of "Heat" when Pacino and Deniro FINALLY share a scene. With a touch of "Serpico" and "Blow", this one adds the touch of dueling codes ... street vs. cop. Just a fascinating (mostly) true story with amazing performances! I really love good movies!
Greetings again from the darkness. It's fun and nostalgic to see Harrison Ford back in his wheelhouse as Indy. Obviously Lucas and Spielberg enjoyed themselves as well. While it is an entertaining ride, don't think for a second this one is anywhere near the classic level of the first and third in the series.Somewhat of a mixture of Caddyshack, American Graffiti, Bullwinkle, Back to the Future and Close Encounters of the Third Kind, this film has many over the top moments which take it a bit out of the realistic flair that we grew up expecting from the Indy series. Once again, Ford does a nice job with the character and his Dr. Henry Jones, jr is one of the true icons of American film history.Nice to see Karen Allen reprise her role as Marion, Indy's long time love interest. Of course, she is re-introduced through a plot twist involving the "it" actor of the moment, Shia LaBeouf. Cate Blanchett plays a twist on Natasha from Bullwinkle and I really got a kick out of the fact that after all of the action sequences, she never had a messed up head of hair or a dirty uniform! Sadly, the usually great John Hurt is wasted in his role and Ray Winstone is effective enough in his double/triple agent role.Any fan of the series will be at least a bit taken aback by the over the top action sequences and special effects, but the charm and mystique of Ford and his quest allow us to overlook the disappointments and just enjoy it for what it is ... a very cool character with an awesome theme song.
Greetings again from the darkness.Yet another in a string of post-apocalyptic films showing Hollywood has little hope for our future.The Hughes Brothers (Menace II Society) deliver a western/samurai tale of a man (Denzel Washington) walking west because voices in his head told him to. Those voices also told him to protect the book he is carrying (a King James Bible) and go full out Bruce Lee on anyone who tries to stop him (OK, I made that part up ... but he sure does). Oh, and the man (Eli) has been walking west for THIRTY-ONE years! The real point seems to be Gary Oldman's character (Carnegie) controls one shabby little town, but dreams of real power. The kind of power that the book can bring. Ding Ding! Religious power! He wants to be a post-apocalyptic tele-evangelist, sans TV. He just knows he can control the masses with the message of the bible. I don't think I am giving anything away here. Good vs Evil. Just like all the great westerns.The Hughes brothers assemble a nice supporting cast with Mila Kunis, Jennifer Beals (her mom in the film), Tom Waits, Michael Gambon and Malcom McDowell. Kunis has by far the most screen time and the final shot of her is really the only humor I found in the film ... though, not even sure it was supposed to be funny.We get a pretty bleak, yet coherent, film for the first 65%. Then it just turns unbelievable. The Shyamalan twist is downright ridiculous due to what we have been watching for the previous 90 minutes. And as much as it pains me to say, Oldman's character is just too low rent to provide a real worthy adversary for Eli. So while the film has an interesting look, it just lacks real guts.
Greetings again from the darkness. Writer/director Jeff Nichols' follow-up to his very strong Take Shelter is a grounded, rustic look at what it means to become a man. While that may be enough, it also works as a chase movie, a buddy movie, a family drama, and a look at small town dynamics ... all seen through the eyes of 14 year old Ellis (Tye Sheridan from The Tree of Life).Matthew McConaughey stars as Mud, a drifter who quickly captures the fascination of Ellis and his buddy Neckbone (newcomer Jacob Lofland) as their worlds collide under a boat in a tree just off the Mississippi River in rural Arkansas. Turns out Mud is a bit of a philosopher who wins Ellis over spinning life yarns that come just as Ellis' parents (Ray McKinnon from O' Brother, Where Art Thou?, and Sarah Paulson from Martha Marcy May Marlene) are hitting a rough patch and he is trying to figure out just how the female species fits into the whole big picture. Mud lays out a beautiful story of how he killed a man protecting his true love Juniper (Reese Witherspoon). Now Mud is being chased by the man's family (brother Carver played by Paul Sparks, and father King played by the too-rarely seen Joe Don Baker - looking great at age 77).Michael Shannon has a few scenes as Neckbone's Uncle who makes a living by diving for mussels in the river. You might remember how terrific Shannon was in Nichols' Take Shelter, and he has become quite an interesting and dependable character actor in various projects. Even more impressive is Sam Shepard as Tom Blankenship ... the father figure for Mud, and a quiet river guy with quite a past. Shepherd's first scene with Ellis is brilliant and could generate a campaign for Best Supporting Actor if this film can reach a wide enough audience.The story is filled with numerous little realistic touches and it's so original that there is no perfect comparison ... though it does have some of the feel of Stand By Me, which is quite a compliment. It is difficult to remember another film where Beanie Weenies were such a valued prop, or where a boat in a tree became a negotiating point, or where the unhurried pace led to such tension. McConaughey deserves special mention because he has clearly broken free of his early career Him-Bo roles and can now be considered a legitimate actor. He is simply outstanding in the role of Mud. We sense the danger that follows him, but are enchanted with his connection to the boys. David Wingo's score is the perfect cap for this little gem. www.MovieReviewsFromTheDark.wordpress.com
Greetings again from the darkness. If you are a follower of the  filmmaking Coen Brothers, then you are quite aware of their complete  lack of artistic interest in any traditionally successful character.  Their work is inspired by life's obstacles and tough luck, even if  brought on by a character's own poor judgment. Coen Brother stories  revolve around those who carry on and have (blind?) faith that their  approach, no matter how ill conceived, is the only option ... the only  path worth taking. Their main character this time out seems to think  life is filled with only careerists (sell-outs) or losers (those who  can't get a break).  The titular Llewyn Davis (played by Oscar Isaac) is introduced to us  onstage at the Gaslight singing a beautiful folk song. Moments later he  is lying in the back alley after taking a whipping from a mysterious  stranger. It's not until this scene is repeated again at the film's end  do we understand the cause of this effect. See, Llewyn is not a very  likable guy. We learn he is still grieving from the suicide of his  musical partner (as sung by Marcus Mumford), and that he bounces from  sofa to sofa amongst acquaintances and family members. Llewyn has no  friends, only acquaintances too kind to throw him out ... even if he  might be the father of an unwanted baby, or if he accidentally allows a  beloved pet cat to escape.  The story is based in the folk music scene of 1961 Greenwich Village in  the pre-Bob Dylan days. The Coen's were inspired by the memoirs of Dave  Van Ronk entitled "The Mayor of MacDougal Street". So while the songs  are real and the characters are often inspired or based upon real  artists of the time, Llewyn's story is pure Coen fiction. That means  cringing, levels of discomfort, uneasy chuckling and moments of rapture  ... such as John Goodman evoking a drugged out Doc Promus spewing harsh  poetic diatribes.  We never really know if the Coens are making a statement or tossing it  out for us to debate. Are they saying that even the ugliness of  Llewyn's personality can produce something as beautiful as music, or  are they saying that we get tricked by beautiful music into thinking  that the artist must also be pure? Carey Mulligan (as Jean) has one of  the film's best and most insightful lines when she tells Llewyn he is  "King Midas' idiot brother". Her pure disgust (and expert rendering of  the F-word) and anger contrasts with her angelic onstage persona with  husband Jim (Justin Timberlake).  As always, the Coens provide us a constant flow of interesting and  oddball characters. In addition to Goodman's jazz hipster, we get  Garrett Hedlund as an ultra cool (til he's not) valet, Adam Driver as a  cowboy folk singer, Troy Nelson as a virtuous Army folk singer (based  on Tom Paxton), and Llewyn's Upper East side cat owners, his spunky  sister, and best of all F Murray Abraham as Bud Grossman, the owner of  Chicago's Gate of Horn club. Based on the real Albert Grossman who  discovered Peter, Paul and Mary, and managed Bob Dylan, Grossman is the  lone witness to Llewyn's audition. This may be the most touching  musical moment of the movie ("The Death of Queen Jane"), but it's  clearly the wrong song for the moment.  Oscar Isaac is exceptional as Llewyn Davis. He captures that crisis of  self that's necessary for an artist whose talent and passion is just  out of step with societal changes. We feel his pain, but fail to  understand the lack of caring he often displays towards others. We get  how his need for money overrides his artistic integrity as he  participates in the novelty song "Please Mr Kennedy". Why Isaac's  performance is not garnering more Oscar chat is beyond my  understanding. It's possibly due to the fact that the movie and his  character are not readily accessible to the average movie goer. Some  thought and consideration is required.  If you are expecting a feel good nostalgic trip down the folk singer  era of Greenwich Village, you will be shocked and disappointed.  Instead, brace yourself for the trials of a talented musician who  believes the music should be enough. Speaking of music, the immensely  talented T Bone Burnett is the man behind the music and it's  fascinating to note how he allows the songs to guide us through the  story and keep us ever hopeful of better days. This is the Coen  Brothers at their most refined and expert.
Greetings again from the darkness. I have a weakness for the 1981 version and still get a kick out of Ray Harryhausen's stop-action art in that film, as well as the Sinbad films. One of my favorite trivia questions is "What film starred both Harry Hamlin and Laurence Olivier?". That cracks me up, and stumps most people ... even though most have seen the original.Director Louis Leterrier provides a remake that is very much a film project of current day despite the mythology involved. Here, Liam Neesom as Zeus and Ralph Finnes as Hades are (not so close) brothers supposedly battling for the same thing - getting those pesky humans back in line. This comes after the army of Argos gets fed up with the whims of the Gods and makes a move toward independence. You either know the story or not, but either way shouldn't affect your enjoyment of the movie.Sam Worthington, fresh off his "Avatar" fame makes for a solid Perseus, the half-son of Zeus (thanks to an earlier trick, that most would call rape). However, I never could make sense of his perfectly barbered look of facial and scalp stubble, while those around him all sport the late-60's Hell's Angels look. Gemma Atherton (former Bond girl) plays the quasi-God who is to protect Persues, and Mads Mikkelson (former Bond villain) fights alongside him. However, this is not an actor's film.The special effects are bountiful. Hades comes and goes as a cloud of thick black smoke and is quite comfortable splitting himself off into a flock of evil-spirited flying dragon things. Pegasus, the flying horse is back, as are the giant scorpions, who are much bigger and badder than before. Still don't understand how they went from mean to sweet between scenes. Of course, the coolest thing is Medusa and her hairdo of creepy, crawly snakes. That's one bad chick. The most impressive special effect is the Kraken, Hade's underworld pet who is "released" to destroy mankind (unless Perseus can stop him).There is one humorous tip of the cap to the original, but most of the other shots at humor fall extremely flat. This is not a movie to see for the dialogue. The mythology and wonderment of the Gods have a certain appeal, though this one certainly falls short in providing us any real insight into the daily tasks of the lucky few on Olympus. So enjoy this one for what it is ... and stump your friends with that trivia question!
Greetings again from the darkness. A sci-fi action thriller set in the near future, the film is based on the novel by Eric Garcia. It stars Jude Law and Forest Whitaker as organ repo men. No, not Wurlitzer pipe organs ... artificial body organs. The idea is that any vital body organ can be replaced for a price. Just check the repo clause before signing anything! Liev Schreiber is the supervisor of Repo Men at The Union. Judging from the size of the building and the mass of the lab,business is booming in the artificial organ transplant business. And who could be surprised? The Union sales team has a perfect sales pitch - sign here or die. And actually, they don't expect you to stay current on your payments, hence the Repo crew.I never did figure out if this was supposed to be a comedy/satire or dramatic thriller. The actors seem to play it straight, but that actually adds to the humorous moments. Despite some fine and interesting songs on the soundtrack, the film is a bit of a mess at times ... though there are also some fun action scenes. The warning must go out that gore abounds and the actual repo scenes are a bit squirm-inducing.
Greetings again from the darkness. David Ayer has built an admirable resume of screenplays: SWAT, Dark Blue, Training Day, Fast and the Furious, and U-571. All of these stories deal with the dark side of the macho personality types. "Harsh Times" takes that theme and revs it up to a ridiculous level. While the others all had believable settings, "Harsh Times" is pure hokey machismo aimed at some audience that can't possibly see many films. On top of that Mr. Ayer takes his first shot at directing, a job that may best be left to the professionals.The usually great Christian Bale, along with Freddy Rodriguez and Eva Longoria are basically directed to go over-the-top with every line of every scene. Of course, accepting Bale as a psycho is no stretch for anyone who has followed his career, but this one smells like a job for money scam by all involved. I am disappointed I contributed to the fund.
Greetings again from the darkness. 18 directors of 18 seemingly unrelated vignettes about love in the city of lights. A very unusual format that takes a couple of segments to adjust to as a viewer. We are so accustomed to character development over a 2 hour movie, it is a bit disarming for that to occur in an 8 minute segment.The idea is 18 love/relationship stories in 18 different neighborhoods of this magnificent city. Of course, some stand up better than others and some go for comedy, while others focus on dramatic emotion. Some very known directors are involved, including: The Coen Brothers, Wes Craven, Alfonso Cuaron, Alexander Payne, Gus Van Sant and Gurinda Chadha. Many familiar faces make appearances as well: Steve Buscemi, Barbet Schroeder, Catalina Sandino Moreno, Ben Gazzara, Gena Rowlands, Gerard Depardieu, Juliette Binoche, Willem Dafoe, Nick Nolte, Maggie Gyllenhaal and Bob Hoskins.One of the best segments involves a mime, and then another mime and the nerdy, yet happy young son of the two mimes. Also playing key roles are a red trench coat, cancer, divorce, sexual fantasy, the death of a child and many other topics. Don't miss Alexander Payne (director of "Sideways") as Oscar Wilde.The diversity of the segments make this interesting to watch, but as a film, it cannot be termed great. Still it is very watchable and a nice change of pace for the frequent movie goer.
Greetings again from the darkness. The horror/thriller idealist in me just never gives up. With three legit movie stars and a director who is responsible for one of my favorite movies, I thought this might just be the genre's rare gem. Instead, it's watchable, kinda fun, and mostly predictable.Much of the predictability comes from the trailer, which inexplicably spoils the key twist in the film. Because of the trailer, I actually expected an additional twist to contradict the give-away. Instead, it plays out pretty much as expected, saved only by the efforts of Daniel Craig and Rachel Weisz (now married in real life). Word is that the producer of the film, wrestled control away from director Jim Sheridan (In America, My Left Foot) and edited the film into it's mostly banal finished state. Such a shame.Basic story is that a NYC white collar professional quits his job and moves his wife and two girls to their dream house in a quaint little community. Problem is, no one told them that a few years back a mom and her two daughters were murdered, supposedly by the husband who then spent years in a mental institution. With the help of a neighbor (Naomi Watts), Craig starts assembling the pieces of the murder mystery and his new home. On top of that, Elias Koteas is tracking his every move and watching the house.The frustration with this one lies in untapped potential. So much more could have been done with Koteas, Watts and Marton Csokas who plays Watts' intense ex-husband. For two days after watching this movie, I kept coming up with new twists and turns that could have made the movie more suspenseful and entertaining. It's clear that Craig and Weisz are unhappy with the final product as they have been noticeably absent on the talk show circuit.It's not the worst suspense thriller you'll ever see, but there are better haunted house films on the market.
Greetings again from the darkness. Just back from a screening and must admit that I was blown away by Christina Aguilera. The film is first and foremost a showcase of her talent ... and quite a talent she is!Ali (Aguilera) is a bored, small town Iowa girl who heads off to find the bright lights of L.A. She stumbles into a Burlesque club and is immediately enchanted by the songs, the dancers and the overall feel of the place. The club is co-owned by Tess (Cher) and her ex-husband Vince (Peter Gallagher) and is headed towards financial disaster. Local real estate developer Marcus (Eric Dane) rides in on a white horse and fat wallet and offers to rescue Tess and Vince. Of course, his plans for the club are anything but altruistic.Meanwhile, Marcus and Jack the bartender (Cam Gigandet) battle over Ali, though neither are very good at it. While that battle is going on Ali manages to beat out Nikki (Kristin Bell) for the spotlight on stage. This is when the movie really takes off, musically speaking.From a musical perspective, Cher belts out a couple of solos that easily convince that her pipes are still full strength. Her two songs are definite highlights and it's a pleasure to see her still in top form. Aguilera has so many numbers that I lost track. Most are average songs at best, but her voice is so unique and powerful that the non-descript songs come off fine.Must also mention Alan Cumming and especially Stanley Tucci. Mr. Tucci is clearly the best actor in the movie, though he basically reprises his character from The Devil Wears Prada.There will be comparisons to Dreamgirls, Moulin Rouge!, Cabaret and Chicago. Writer and first time director Steve Antin pretty much stays out of the way of Cher and Aguilera, while delivering the expected product to his intended audience ... not that there's anything wrong with it.
Greetings again from the darkness. Based on the true events of artist Margaret Keane and her husband Walter, the latest from director Tim Burton is the closest thing to reality he has produced since his only other biopic, Ed Wood (1994). But fear not, ye fans of the Burton universe, his style and flair remains ever-present with a stunning color palette on this trek through the 1950's and 60's.If you have never heard the story, Margaret Keane is an artist with a unique style that features exaggerated eyes of her subjects, hence the movie title. When she first met Walter, she fell hard for his charm and his exuberance and professed love of her work. What happened next seems impossible to imagine these days, but this was the 1950's. Walter began to market and sell her paintings as his own  in fact, the real marketing was himself as an artist. The empire of Keane paintings, postcards, posters, etc literally exploded forcing Margaret to paint in silence and solitude while her husband inexplicably took public credit, sighting his defense as no one will buy "lady art".That may sound like the description of an "issues" film  one that digs into the male dominance of the pre-women's movement era, or possibly even a look at artistic integrity or the battle of popular kitsch versus critical acclaim. Instead, this is more of a relationship film and a character study. We witness how Walter (Christoph Waltz) lures Margaret (Amy Adams) into this trap and truly undervalues her as an artist or a person. She is merely a means to his financial and public success. Margaret feels trapped right up to the point where she doesn't.There could have been real fun in the exploration of Dick Nolan (played by Danny Huston) from the "San Francisco Examiner" in his role as cheesy journalist contrasted against the socially revered serious art critic John Camady (played by Terence Stamp). Instead, both the relationship aspects of the Keanes and the tabloid battles of the critics come off as a bit lightweight, though right in line with Mr. Waltz' incessant smirk through most of his lines. Fortunately, the film is filled with subtext  each scene carrying the weight of multiple issues.Many will enjoy the deliciously evil approach Waltz takes for the role, but I mostly felt sad that a woman as apparently smart as Margaret would fall for this obvious shyster and his over the top self-promotion. Still, her battle for independence and ownership is quite interesting given the times and the hole that was dug. Adams is terrific in the role, and she is one of many actresses who bring their own "big eyes" to the picture (Krysten Ritter and Madeleine Arthur are others).The film never attempts to answer any social issues or even take on the question of "what is art?". The lack of a stance doesn't change the fact that it's beautiful to look at, and brings to light an incredible true story. The set design and costumes are wonderful, and composer Danny Elfman delivers a complimentary score. For those wondering, neither Johnny Depp nor Helena Bonham Carter (both Burton staples) appears in the film. However, the real Margaret Keane is shown sitting on a park bench while Ms. Adams paints in one scene. So if you are after a good-looking film that doesn't (on the surface seem to) ruffle many feathers, the battle of the Keanes is one that should satisfy. If you are willing to dig a little deeper, there is much to discuss afterwards.
Greetings again from the darkness. The original 1987-91 TV series "jump" started Johnny Depp's mega-superstardom career, and yes, he is a generous enough to appear in a brief cameo in this updated film from co-directors Phil Lord and Chris Miller. The script from co-writers Michael Bacall and Jonah Hill makes little effort to stay true to the source material and that works in the film's favor.We first meet Schmidt (Jonah Hill) and Jenko (Channing Tatum) as polar opposites at the same high school. One of them is a pudgy, nerdy looking guy trying hard to throw down an Eminem look, while the other is the ultra-cool jock who is skating by academically. Guess which is which? Flash forward seven years and these two are still misfits ... this time at the police academy where one aces the physical fitness tests and bombs academically and the other is just the opposite. Guess which is which? So these two decide to become buddies and help each other live the dream as badass cops.Cut to the next scene where they are patrolling a park on bicycles visualizing their first big bust. When things go wrong ... SURPRISE! ... they are assigned to Captain Dickson (Ice Cube), an angry man who runs the Jump Street undercover unit out of a Korean church. Since neither Hill nor Tatum look anything like high schoolers, the absurdity is written into the script. They become the most mis-matched brothers since Schwarzenegger and Devito in Twins.Their mission is to discover the dealers and source for a new drug making its way through a local high school. The drug has already killed one student and it takes these two "brothers" about 5 minutes to uncover the dealers. The supplier is a bit slower to come and the process involves numerous comedy skits involving Tatum as a science geek and Hill as Peter Pan.The comedy skits involve nice work from Elle Kemper, Nick Offerman, Rob Riggle and Chris Parnell. The cool kids are played by Dave Franco (James' brother) and Brie Larson. Car chases, a keg party, science experiments and the prom all play a role, as do white tuxedos and one of the oddest shootouts ever filmed. What seems like 1200 rounds are fired in a hotel room before someone is actually hit.In addition to Depp's pretty cool cameo, there's also an appearance from Peter DeLuise and Holly Robinson Peete, both from the TV series. Of course the story is ridiculous and the film never really takes itself seriously, but I was actually somewhat impressed with Channing Tatum's ability to play deadpan to Jonah Hill's slapstick. The two worked pretty well together and there are enough laughs to make this one worth seeing.
Greetings again from the darkness. Paul Haggis has come a long way since his writings for "Walker, Texas Ranger". With "Crash" and "Million Dollar Baby" behind his name, he has earned respect and his films will always get a shot from real film-goers. Probably a lucky thing form me, because otherwise I would have had no interest in seeing this apparent chick flick.I say lucky because this is an excellent and complex script in regards to all relationships. Yes, it takes more than a few shots at us guys and our obvious inability to read the minds of any female - even if married for 30 years! Still the realistic situations and emotions are well captured in numerous scenes.There is a touch of "Diner" with the whole male-bonding thing and a very obvious tip of the cap to "Say Anything" with Zach Braff's porch scenario, but we never really have the feeling that we have seen all of this before. Most of the credit must go to Haggis, but the acting is fine throughout. Braff is believable in the lead and Jacinda Barrett is at times very powerful in her joy and pain. There a couple of scenes with Blythe Danner and Tom Wilkinson that will make every married couple cringe with recognition. Last, but certainly not least, welcome to the big screen Rachel Bilson (from "The OC", who looks like she could be Rachel McAdams little sister).Director Tony Goldwyn is known mostly as a supporting actor and TV director, but does a fine job of maintaining the pace of the Haggis script and not relying too much on facial close-ups which would have minimized some of the effective body language of the actors. Overall, a decent film without too much fluff or stereotyping - despite the obvious bias towards the woman's viewpoint. Downside is definitely a weak soundtrack that does nothing for the film.
Greetings again from the darkness. Very personal and intimate story from the very talented Adrienne Shelly. Ms. Shelly was tragically murdered before the film was released, but what a legacy and gift she left for her husband, daughter and film lovers.Keri Russell ("Felicity") stars as Jenna, a fabulous pie maker who is a lost soul married to the world's worst husband - played brilliantly by Jeremy Sisto. She works at a diner with her two friends played wonderfully by the bubbly Cheryl Hines and the film's writer and director, Adrienne Shelly. The relationship between these three is very realistic, touching and entertaining. They love and cherish each other.Outstanding support from Eddie Jemison ("Ocean's Eleven, Twelve and Thirteen"), Nathan Fillian ("Serenity") and the great Andy Griffith, who has some great lines and definitely should work more often!! Jemison's spontaneous poetry capture the heart of Ms. Shelly's character and Fillian's Dr. Pomatter shows Russell what it is like to be adored, rather than abused.This is not slick Hollywood film-making. It is quirky ... just like real life. These are characters, who for the most part, make the best of their situations. Every now and then, if we are lucky, we capture a moment of pure bliss ... whether it is in the selfless hug from another, or the miracle of childbirth. The script analyzes loneliness and bad relationships with a twist of humor and much insight.While it is heart-breaking that Ms. Shelly did not live to see the final product, we see her heart and soul on screen. And don't miss her real daughter (Sophie Ostrey) as Ms. Russell's 3 year old LuLu. This is a wonderful little film with some terrific moments and a nice message to enjoy your life.
Greetings again from the darkness. I have no qualms in admitting that I worship Pedro Almodovar as a filmmaker. His films have made me laugh (Volver), think (Talk to Her) and have yanked me out of my comfort zone (Bad Education). With Broken Embraces, the maestro has so many nuances and details brewing below his always stunning surface that I found myself really working to assemble the pieces as the film went along.His fabulous muse, Penelope Cruz, is back and in full splendor. Pedro has always had a talent for exciting and fully developed female characters and here, both Ms. Cruz and Blanca Portillo are absolutely fascinating. The male lead is Mateo, a film director played by Lluis Homar (Bad Education). I won't try to simplify the multi-faceted relationship and story lines other than to say this is a touch noir, with revenge, jealousy, obsession and of course, love - both full display and unrequited.Sadly, many Americans will skip this one because of subtitles, but I hope it finds an audience on DVD. From a visual perspective, the color red abounds here ... passion or blood? That's the big question. There are many wonderful scenes that feature beautiful shots from Pedro, as well as some of the best dialogue he has ever written. From a film-making perspective, this one deserves multiple viewings - and will get it from me!
Greetings again from the darkness. Writer/Director John Michael McDonagh is the brother of Martin McDonagh, who brought us the excellent In Bruges (which also starred Brendan Gleeson). I figured it best to say that upfront because there is no way to avoid comparisons of the two films. Clearly these men grew up in the same house and were trained in a brilliant method of writing dialogue.Brendan Gleeson delivers a powerful and hilarious performance as a local cop (Garda) in rural Ireland. His Sgt Gerry Boyle is quite an enigma - he gets along great with locals, yet struggles to fit into society. This is never more apparent than when FBI Agent Wendell Everett (Don Cheadle) hits town on a drug smuggling investigation. The key to their relationship is crystallized at the moment an exasperated Agent Everett says to Boyle, 'I can't tell if you are really smart or really dumb'. Of course, I am paraphrasing because the F-word gets literally worn out in this movie. There aren't many lines I can actually quote in print. But the word rolls off Gleeson's tongue as if it's a work of art ... especially in conversation with his ailing mother, played well by the always terrific Fionnula Flanagan.The international drug smugglers being chased are a trio led by Liam Cunningham and the always interesting Mark Strong. The endless rips, insults and jokes are fired rapidly at Americans, Brits and anyone unfortunate enough to hail from Dublin. Boyle uses his Irish background as a crutch for his racism and insensitivity. But he leaves no doubt about his expertise as a cop. Heck he even recognizes the importance of some 9 year old kid riding around on a pink bicycle. That's just another example of the off-center approach to story telling offered by McDonagh.If you are a fan of In Bruges, Snatch, or Lock Stock and Two Smoking Barrels, I think you will enjoy this one. It falls just short of that level, but not by much. Gleeson is outstanding and the story is simple enough, yet with plenty of twist, turns and hilarity.
Greetings again from the darkness. Director Neil LaBute recreates the 1973 cult film of the same name. That last sentence will be the last time I ever mention Mr. LaBute's name without warning someone to NEVER see another of his films. This is, without a doubt, one of the worst made films I have seen in YEARS! Trying to capture the camp of the cheesy flicks from the 70's that usually starred David Soul and/or Roddy McDowell, this captures nothing but boredom and stupidity. Bad sets, shoddy photography, a joke of a script and apparently no rehearsals deliver exactly what one would expect ... an embarrassment for all involved.Let's talk Nicolas Cage for a moment. I am certain he was being fed his lines just as the camera began to roll. He sleepwalks through this "performance" and I assume agreed to this as some last minute favor for a friend ... or possibly for easy money. By far his worst performance ever!! The rest of the cast is almost as bad as Cage. The usually great Ellen Burstyn can't possibly be this desperate for work. Leelee Sobieski, who showed such promise in "Joy Ride" and "Glass House" and then took two years off, acts like she has never been in front of a camera before. Three confusing near-cameos are provided by Aaron Eckhart, James Franco and Jason Ritter.There is no redeeming value in this one. It is not even FUN BAD. It is quite simply BAD.
Greetings again from the darkness. This is a terrific little art-house character study with comedic elements, fine acting and superb writing. Mike Mills is responsible and he was also the writer and director on another excellent little movie from about 5 years ago called Thumbsucker. When I say little movie, I mean intimate and poignant with a nominal budget.Three time periods are presented in overlapping form to an effective end. One period shows us Oliver (Ewan McGregor) as a young kid interacting with his mother (Mary Page Keller). Another period shows Oliver's father Hal (Christopher Plummer) confessing to him that he is gay (this is a few months after the mother/wife dies). The third period has Oliver trying to forge a relationship with Anna (Melanie Laurent) whom he met at a costume party.While that may sound like a simple set-up, I assure you that the complications created by these characters is both realistic and head-spinning. It turns out Hal knew he was gay prior to marrying Oliver's mother, but claims she promised to "fix" him. Once he proclaims his gayness, Hal jumps in with both feet to all causes gay. He thoroughly enjoys himself and even meets a new, younger lover. And just when he admits to joy, inoperable cancer is discovered in Hal's lungs. This begins the second major secret of his life.The scenes from Oliver's childhood provide crucial evidence on why he is so solemn and afraid of relationships. He suffers just as his mother did. Things begin to shift for him when, dressed as Freud, his party sofa becomes occupied by Anna - a beautiful, alluring French actress who, it turns out, is just as messed up emotionally as is Oliver. They make the perfect threesome ... including Arthur, Hal's Jack Terrier, who speaking through subtitles, lets us know when things are OK or not. Arthur takes a great deal of the heaviness away.There are many elements of this film that I really like. The houses of both Hal and Oliver are full of as much personality as either of the characters. The look and pace of the film is meticulous and steady given the material. It seems to be naturally lighted from windows and interior sconces. Nothing even comes close to looking like a Hollywood set.Ewan McGregor plays his part very close to the vest and conveys the pain and uncertainty that Oliver has learned over the years. His defenses are up! Melanie Laurent was my favorite part of Inglourious Basterds (she was the cinema owner on a mission) and here she offers both hopefulness and melancholy. To me, the heart of the film is Christopher Plummer's performance. He portrays an elderly gay man with grace and then takes it to another level in his "sick" scenes. He is a wise man who may or may not understand how selfish he was, but is intent on showing Oliver that it's never to late to be a "beginner" in love.
Greetings again from the darkness. Fellow germophobes beware: the first few minutes of this movie will have you reaching for disinfectant and a surgical mask. Just remember - it's only a movie. The scary part is that we have already experienced much of the terror that the film presents. We have seen first hand the effects of Swine Flu and Asian Bird Flu. We understand the fear of uncertainty and helplessness. What we need to remember is that a virus is a living element capable of mutating and spreading ... it looks for a way to get stronger and survive.The movie goes for the gut punch in the first few minutes. We see Gwyneth Paltrow returning home to hubby Matt Damon after an overseas business trip. We immediately know she is sick, but we aren't sure of the source ... though the film provides many possibilities. Simultaneously we are shown numerous people with the Paltrow symptoms all over the world, and quickly understand that these are related and the "monster" is spreading quickly.Cut to Dr. Cheeve (Laurence Fishbourne) and his team at CDC. He partners with Dr. Orantes (Marion Cotillard) of the World Health Organization and Dr. Mears (Kate Winslet) from the Epidemic Intelligence Services. We are left to fill in the blanks on how these organizations work together to study and interpret the source and danger of an outbreak.The true heroes of science are those in the labs. Here we have Dr. Hextall (Jennifer Ehle, from The King's Speech) and Dr. Sussman (Elliott Gould). We understand that these are highly talented people with the very specific skills needed to save the planet.From a movie making perspective, the film is technically fine. The camera work and acting are all excellent. Director Steven Soderbergh is a superstar director and well-respected. Writer Scott Burns has quite an impressive resume. The cast is as deep and spectacular as any you will see this year. Then why am I in such a funk about this film? It disappoints me to say that the film plays like a disjointed mess. We get bits and pieces of numerous stories throughout, but never do we really connect with a single character. Matt Damon and Lawrence Fishbourne have the most screen time, but neither are accessible or give us any reason to believe we know them ... only their desperation. Jude Law plays a super-blogger who teeters between exposing governmental conspiracies and his own insider trading for personal gain. There are subplots with Marion Cotillard, Jennifer Ehle and Laurence Fishbourne that all could have been intriguing, but we get the glossy outline version, rather than an actual story.The film wants to concentrate not on the personal side of the outbreak, but rather the process of damage control, scientific research and lab work for a vaccine. But we only get scattered bits of any of this. Same with the political side. We see a "world" teleconference with the CDC and leaders from many countries, but never an explanation on why they are all looking to the U.S. for a miracle cure. It would have been fascinating to see how or if the experts from Japan, China, India and the U.S. work together in times of a global epidemic. Instead, we get thoughtful poses from Mr. Fishbourne. What a waste.Despite the potential for greatness, this film is neither thrilling or dramatic or informative. Mostly I wondered how much time the endless stream of movie stars actually spent on set. It appears Mr. Soderbergh now enjoys hanging with an all-star cast more than really making a statement with a movie. Additionally, I found the quasi-Techno soundtrack to be distracting and annoying. There are numerous virus outbreak movies that are superior to this one.Whether you see this movie or not ... remember to wash your hands!
Greetings again from the darkness. Brace for gushing. Last evening I attended a screening that included a fascinating Q&A with writer/director Stephen Chbosky. It reminded me of how personal and intimate and observant and incisive a well-made film can be. A well written script is so refreshing, and an exceptional script can be truly breath-taking. Mr. Chbosky takes the unusual step of directing his own screenplay based on his own novel (a 1999 bestseller), and he left me stunned and enthralled.The popularity of the novel would typically make the film version a disappointment for its fans. Not so this time. Mr. Chbosky remains true to the spirit despite the need to edit for the sake of continuity and brevity. The key characters spring to life thanks to the efforts of four strong performances from young actors: Logan Lerman (Percy Jackson, The Three Muskateers) plays Charlie, Emma Watson (Harry Potter films) is Sam, Ezra Miller (We Need to Talk About Kevin, City Island) is Patrick, and Mae Whitman (Arrested Development) is Mary Elizabeth.If you have read the book, you know the story ... you know the characters ... you know the themes. If you haven't read the book, I will spoil nothing. The brilliance is recognized only as you get to know these characters and slowly uncover their stories. What we discover is that, regardless of our age, we recognize these characters from our high school days. We know the introverted, observant Charlie who so desperately needs a support system. We surely recognize the attention-starved, lacking in self-esteem Sam who is the epitome of "We accept the love we think we deserve". And we all knew a Patrick ... the flamboyant one who sheaths his pain with an over-the-top act of public confidence. What Chbosky does is shine the spotlight on these characters to ensure that we really SEE them this time.The themes reminded me a bit of a darker John Hughes film (that's a compliment). There were also pieces of two other really good films: Stand By Me and Almost Famous. The formative years of a writer determine the depths to which his or her work will reach later in life. Admittedly, the film is substantially autobiographical, so when Mr. Chbosky says it's a personal story, we begin to understand the foundation of his remarkable writing style."Welcome to the island of misfit toys." When this line is spoken, we realize that most every high school kid has thought the same thing at some point. These are painful and difficult times and as Mr. Chbosky stated, we should encourage kids to fight through this stage and get on to the next ... then able to find their true self. Clearly, the film made a strong impact on me. My favorite reaction to a movie is profound thought, and this one caused this in waves. The decision to release as PG-13 was wise. There is no excess of profanity or nudity to divert attention from what really matters ... the characters. I can think of no finer compliment to a writer and filmmaker than to cite them as the cause of my internal discussions related to their film. My hope is that you have the same reaction. (http://moviereviewsfromthedark.wordpress.com/)
Greetings again from the darkness. We are blessed with so few horror movies for grown-ups because it is a nearly impossible genre to succeed in. There is such a fine line between suspense and stupidity, and to succeed there must be an air of believability. This film manages to walk the high wire and maintain the balance ... to the point of a few good scares and more than enough suspense! Produced by the great Guillermo del Toro and directed by Spain's new hot shot director, Juan Antonio Bayona, the film has some very basic, even cliché, story lines and premises. Still the quality is so high and the acting so strong that it does suck the viewer right into this world. The simplistic approach is what makes it work. The house creaks, clanks and other noises are extraordinarily creepy and not over the top. The best moments are the "little" things and I really enjoyed Geraldine Chaplin's time as the medium.OK, it is a horror movie, but this is a very good performance from Bolen Rueda, who was so memorable in "The Sea Inside". Ms. Rueda is Laura, who wants to set up a house for a few needy kids in the same house in which she lived as an orphan when she was a kid. Guess what? There is more to the story than that! Laura's own adopted son is played by the extraordinarily cute Roger Princep as Simon. Big eyes and bushy hair, he is like a living (or maybe not) doll.It is so difficult for these films to find an audience, especially when released in the U.S. with sub-titles, but this one deserves attention to anyone who enjoys a little suspense and a few good darkened theatre jumps in the seat!
Greetings again from the darkness. This latest from Martin Scorsese can be fitted with multiple labels and each would be correct: a tribute to the birth of movies, a case for film preservation, a children's fable, a special effects/3D extravaganza, a family movie with touches of Dickens. Very few directors would tackle such an ambitious project and succeed in producing such a magical experience.Based on Brian Selznick's (relative to the film giant David O. Selznick)children's book "The Invention of Hugo Cabret", this is a story of redemption and fulfillment. Asa Butterfield plays Hugo, made an orphan when his watchmaker father (Jude Law) dies in a fire. Hugo gathers up the project he and his dad had been working on, and he moves in with his drunkard Uncle Claude (Ray Winstone). They live in the walls of a 1930's Paris train station and maintain all the clocks, ensuring accurate time. When his uncle disappears, Hugo carries on the daily mission unseen by passengers and station staff. He steals the occasional croissant and milk to survive, all while continuing the mission of repairing the automaton his dad salvaged. Hugo is convinced there is a hidden message from his father that will be revealed when the automaton is fully functioning.Hugo gets cross-ways with a station toy vendor named Georges, played by Sir Ben Kingsley. Georges is a bitter old man and has no time for Hugo the urchin. Chloe Moretz plays Isabelle, a ward unto Georges, and she and Hugo strike up a friendship. Hugo introduces Isabelle to the world of cinema ... previously off-limits to her thanks to Georges. She returns the favor by awakening Hugo to the power of books in a store run by the mysterious, and always great, Christopher Lee. All this is happening while Hugo tries to evade the grasp of the oddly dedicated and slightly twisted station inspector played by Sacha Baron Cohen.The kids' research and automaton revealed hint lead them to a film history book written by Rene Tabard (Michael Stuhlbarg). It's here that they discover Georges is really George Melies, the famous pioneer of film who developed the first special effects and studio system. If you know much of film history, then you recognize Melies as the one who brought us the 1902 "A Trip to the Moon". It is here that Scorsese delivers a quick recap of the origination of film, including the Lumiere Brothers, the famous clock stunt by Harold Lloyd and other silent film classics like Buster Keaton and Charlie Chaplin. The best portion is dedicated to recreating the system used by Melies to produce films in his make-shift studio.It is here that we are allowed to remember just how magical movies can be and how the best ones fill us with a sense of wonderment. The lines between what we feel and what Scorsese is showing us becomes so blurred it no longer matters. As Isabelle is overwhelmed in the theatre, that same feeling sweeps over us. How interesting that Scorsese's first special effects film features the man who originated film special effects. We even get a re-creation of the famous oncoming locomotive clip that caused audiences to jump. We get it in 3D in Hugo's own station! I have been extremely critical of 3D and its misuse in movies these past couple of years. It rarely adds to the movie and always dims the colors and brightness. Scorsese is a firm believer in the technology and set out to show what can be done and how it can compliment the story. While more impressive than any 3D since Avatar, I still have my doubts about the benefits. What I do know is that if you can overlook the story that drags a bit and the unnecessary 3D effects, you will probably find the film to be quite entertaining and fun to watch. Howard Shore's score plays a vital role and supporting work comes from Emily Mortimer, Richard Griffiths, and Helen McCrory. It's not for the youngest kids, but it will make you feel like a kid ... while reminding you that movies are the stuff that dreams are made of.
Greetings again from the darkness. This is the garbage we get in January. Ridiculous "thriller" from director Gregory Hoblit, who has a string of elementary psycho-thrillers: "Fracture", "Hart's War", "Fallen" and "Primal Fear" (the best of the lot). In "Fracture" Hoblit managed to waste Anthony Hopkins and Ryan Gosling, so there was little hope with Diane Lane and Billy Burke.In Hollywood, success breeds imitation, but it helps to throw in a little creativity. Borrowing from "Silence of the Lambs" and the "Saw" series, this one just substitutes a psycho-cyber killer played by Joseph Cross ("Running with Scissors"). Hmmm, let's see ... which is more intriguing, a brilliant, clever and playful world-famous psychiatrist who out-thinks the FBI or some young techno-geek played by a Doogie Houser look-alike? Please.If that's not bad enough, instead of Jodie Foster battling her inner demons while chasing Hannibal Lechter, we get the always beaten-down Diane Lane and her cohort played by the lifeless Billy Burke (who, by the way, seems to be this generation's Jeff Fahey). Shortcuts and gimics rarely combine to generate a world-class thriller. This one isn't even worthy of its Portland location.Tom's son, Colin Hanks gets a grown-up role as an FBI agent and Mary Beth Hurt gets to raise an eyebrow and roto-til a garden, but the only real point of interest here is Lane's daughter played by Perla Haney-Jardine, who real movie lovers will recognize as BB Kiddo from "Kill Bill Vol 2).
Greetings again from the darkness. Writer/director Woody Allen returns to the United States for his latest and examines a topic he knows much about ... how to handle a public life that gets blown apart. Jasmine (Cate Blanchett) and Hal (Alec Baldwin) are living the extreme life of NYC power and luxury. It all crashes down around them when Hal is exposed and arrested as a Bernie Madoff type Ponzi-scheme white collar criminal.Disoriented from this whirlwind personal tragedy, Jasmine heads west to San Francisco to live with her sister Ginger (Sally Hawkins), a blue collar single mom. The sisters haven't been close for a couple of reasons. First, Hal scammed Ginger and her husband at the time (Andrew Dice Clay) out of their lottery winnings. Second, they are both adopted and Ginger constantly claims Jasmine got the "good genes" so it's expected that she gets the breaks in life.We quickly realize that Jasmine is bouncing between her fantasy of re-capturing her life of luxury and the harsh reality of her situation. She is not handling it well and falls back on things like going "back to school" to become an interior decorator. Additionally, she vocally disapproves of Ginger's choices in men and poisons her thoughts that she (Ginger) can do much better than Dice or her current boyfriend (Bobby Cannavale). That leads to an expected turn of events featuring Louis C.K.While Jasmine is absolutely unpleasant as a person or character, Ms. Blanchett does a fine job of keeping us tuned in to this slow-burning breakdown. Her scenes with Michael Stuhlbarg are awkward and excellent. It's impossible not to be reminded of Blanche in A Streetcar Named Desire, and even Gena Rowlands' remarkable performance in A Woman Under the Influence (1974). Is Jasmine a monster who refuses to face reality or a severely damaged soul incapable of thinking clearly? The best and most insightful line of the movie comes courtesy of Ginger when she says "Jasmine has always had a way of looking in the other direction." Her way of handling reality is to look away and pretend it doesn't exist. The disgust at her sister's working class environment and lack of empathy has us as viewers wishing someone would just slap her. Ms. Hawkins somehow manages to shine here despite the massive presence of Blanchett's Jasmine. Woody Allen leaves us wishing we were all as strong as Hawkins' character and thankful that we have no connection to a Jasmine.
Greetings again from the darkness. Award winning playwright Martin McDonagh brings his amazing writing talents to the big screen and scores with his first turn as a feature film director. The city of Bruges (yes, in Belgium) is the perfect setting for the multi-layered story. Its well preserved medieval architecture is like an character unto itself.Colin Farrell delivers by far his best performance to date. He is funny, dangerous, sexy and emotional throughout. This is exceptional acting from a guy who tends to disappoint. Of course, it helps to have magnificent writing and this one most certainly delivers on that front. The dialogue is quirky and quick ... so tune in early.Strong work also from Brendon Gleeson, who all will recognize from "Gangs of New York" and the Harry Potter series. He is a tough guy with a streak of humanity. The third piece of the puzzle is Ralph Fiennes as the mastermind bad guy. The supporting work is fine from Jordan Prentice as the dwarf actor (sadly Mr. Prentice is most famous for playing Howard the Duck) and a very cute Clemence Poesy as Farrell's odd love interest.Very few writers can write dialogue like this and even fewer can juggle as many layers without making a film seem busy, crowded or forced. Hopefully Mr. McDonagh will bring more of his work to the big screen ... he certainly adds a touch of class!
Greetings again from the darkness. We all recognize the genius of Philip Seymour Hoffman the actor. This gives us one more example of his immense talent, but also puts his eye as a first time director on display. Not surprisingly, he comes through extremely well.Based on the play by Bob Glaudini, three of the four main characters reprise their role from the stage production. Mr. Hoffman as Jack, John Ortiz as Clyde and Daphne Rubin-Vega as Clyde's wife, Lucy. The newcomer is the fantastic Amy Ryan ("The Office")as Connie. Jack and Clyde work together as limo drivers. Lucy and Connie work together for some odd funeral home specialist who markets some type of unexplained program.All that really matters is that Clyde and Lucy arrange to have Connie and Jack meet. The apparent reason is that neither of them have any friends or social skills. What we then learn is that all four of these people are fractured. Scene after scene shows off the power of friendship and/or the faulty side of on-the-job relationship therapy borough about by cheating and secrets.For the most part, the film has the feel of a stage production and moves very slowly as these type of people would. There are moments where individual weakness gives way to outbursts of emotions - and not all in a positive way. What is clear is that they each want the best for each other, but have no real feel for what's best for themselves.I thought the film made some excellent points, but I was a bit disappointed in the hookah scene. That was the only scene that went too far and my guess is it worked better on stage. On the bright side, there are some tender, poignant moments and the acting is truly superb throughout the film. It is obvious that these four actors care very much for the story and these characters.
Greetings again from the darkness. Writing about lousy movies is no fun, but if I can save even one person from wasting $10 and two hours on this garbage, it's worth it. The only way this got the green light is because of the success of The Hangover movies, Sex and the City, and HBO's "Girls". The difference is that all of those projects had a sense of humor and style, while writer/director Tom Gormican somehow finds it creative to end numerous scenes with someone calling someone else either 'a f***ing idiot' or 'an A-hole'.Mr.Gormican's only other listed credit is as Producer for the gross out Movie 43. Let's just say he is now 0-for-2, and here's hoping he never gets a shot at number 3. This is such a waste of a talented group of up and coming actors. Zac Efron loses whatever credibility he has built up since High School Musical by playing Jason the Jerk. OK, I added the Jerk part, but it's true. Jason is best friends and co-worker with Daniel, played by Miles Teller, who was so good in The Spectacular Now. Daniel is a simple-minded misogynist with a razor sharp tongue. They are both friends with Mikey, a young doctor whose wife dumps him. Mikey is played by Michael B Jordan, a standout in last year's Fruitvale Station. These twenty-somethings make a drunken pact to stay single and build their roster of casual sex partners, thereby avoiding the awkward moment of "So ... where is this relationship headed?" The guys live like frat boys, guzzling booze while spouting "jokes" on such thought-provoking topics as poop, penis, masturbation, homosexuality, and Viagra. To add even more insult to humanity, there are four female roles that could set back women's advancement by 100 years ... should anyone actually see this pile of junk. Imogene Poots, Jessica Lucas, Addison Timlin and MacKenzie Davis are all smart, beautiful women who somehow associate with these dunces. For the record, Jordan's character is not as classless as the others, but guilt by association cannot be ignored.Miles Teller still has the potential to be the next John Cusack, and Michael B. Jordan clearly has a future if he avoids projects like this, and Zac Efron will probably take his perfect face and go back to sweet romantic comedies. The four key actresses should all bounce back soon with far superior projects ... movies that don't denigrate men, women and movie soundtracks (it may be the worst since the 1980's).
Greetings again from the darkness. Even in his less successful films, writer/director M Night Shyamalan usually delivers a thought-provoking, unique looking final product. This one, while not one of his better efforts, is no exception.Roger Ebert fell in love with the insight shown by the characters in the midst of a wake-up call from nature. I say it is a terrific premise, and one most of us have at least thought about, yet it falls way short of showing us the insight of people into their own lives. Granted the dialog is limited, but most of these people just seemed dazed and confused.None of the sub-plots are well developed and we are left to do most of the thinking and consideration ourselves. The talented director really just throws the idea out there. Actually, very little happens other than a few people are frozen in time until they walk backwards and harm themselves. The film does come alive briefly during the segments with Ft Worth's own Betty Buckley as Mrs. Jones, one of the most bizarre senior citizens whom could ever hope to encounter.With all the missed opportunities and "inside jokes" like the nursery owner (Frank Collison) proclaiming his love of hot dogs, this one borders on boring rather than melancholy. Sadly Zooey Deschanel and Mark Wahlberg show little in their roles and John Leguizamo's sniveling role is an embarrassment for all men and his judgment is certainly outside the realm of reasonable. Don't miss Spencer Breslin's (Abigail's brother) brief, but fun role.All said, this would have made a better Twilight Zone or Outer Limits episode since Night refused to work too hard on this one.
Greetings again from the darkness. Let me say that it's great to have Mark Romanek back directing films. His most recent feature was 2002's "One Hour Photo" which I found masterful. Here he has source material from the acclaimed novel of Kazuo Ishiguro ("The Remains of the Day") and does an admirable job depicting this underground world of test tube replacement parts. Despite the numerous opportunities for moral and philosophical statements, the film does a nice job of staying true to the novel and avoiding the soapbox.We are introduced to Kathy, Tommy and Ruth. They are 3 friends being raised at Hailsham - a cross between an orphanage, boarding school and laboratory. The kids have no idea of their purpose in life and just go about their days as instructed - never really finding a need to question their existence ... though many "stories" of the place have evolved over the years.One day, a teacher played by Sally Hawkins breaks the code and explains to the children that their sole purpose in life is to be harvested for body parts. Sure this theme has been explored previously, but not really from the kids' perspective. Ms. Hawkins' character is instantly relieved of her duties by the cold-natured head mistress played perfectly by Charlotte Rampling.Flash forward a few years and the three are played by Carey Mulligan (Kathy), Andrew Garfield (Tommy) and Keira Knightley (Ruth). We see a romance develop between Ruth and Tommy, though it's obvious the real connection is between Kathy and Tommy. As they move to "the cottages" (a middle step in development), they learn a bit more about the real world.It's not until a few years later when we see how two of them have fulfilled their obligation, while one has delayed by playing "a carer" to donors, that we see just how bleak this existence is. The real questions are raised by Kathy as she wonders just how different their lives are than those in the real world. It seems both sides have regrets, unrealized dreams and a shortage of time. Here endeth the lesson.This film is gathering a bit of Oscar buzz from the critics, but I must admit that I found it leaving entirely too much up to the audience. There are too many gaps to fill and not really much conflict or drama. It is finely made and well acted, but comes up short of what I would expect from a true Oscar contender.
Greetings again from the darkness. Bio-Drama based on the political rise of Harvey Milk, the first openly gay man elected to office, is much more than that. It is a reminder of just how ridiculous and closed minded the establishment was just 30 short years ago. Seeing Anita Bryant brought back some scary memories and reminds us just how important it is to understand an issue PRIOR to passing judgment.Sean Penn turns in yet another of his seemingly endless top-notch performances. However, this time he is not the brooding, mumbling type ... he is the action-oriented, quick thinking, charismatic leader of the gay movement in the 70's, and he is spot on as Harvey Milk. The film does not portray Milk as a perfect man, but does spend most of the time on his mission to be elected in order to provide a voice for the gay movement.Excellent support work by Emile Hirsch and James Franco, and Josh Brolin takes on the tough role of Dan Brown, a good man who just couldn't understand why people listened to Milk instead of him. I can't comment on Diego Luna's performance, because it is extremely flamboyant. My guess is that is probably an accurate portrayal of Milk's lover.Director Gus Van Sant (Good Will Hunting, Drugstore Cowboy) does a masterful job of capturing the feel of the times through sets and a mixture of news footage and other actual video. We get a feel for the cause without dwelling on the discrimination and outright abuse that this group absorbed. While not a documentary, it is a strong recollection of a very explosive time in U.S. history.
Greetings again from the darkness. Over the years, there have been some very entertaining con artist films, and they range from outright comedy (Dirty Rotten Scoundrels) to cheeky (The Sting) to dramatic (The Grifters). My personal favorite is David Mamet's House of Games, a very quiet and subtle look at the con. The stylistic opposite of Mamet's gem is the latest from director David O Russell. It's like comparing Duke Ellington to Donna Summer - both of which are featured on this soundtrack.For the past few months, I have said that this film's trailer is one of the best I have ever seen. The energy and visuals were enthralling and have had me anxiously awaiting a chance to see the film. So please understand when I say that the movie does not quite match the expectations, it's not really a criticism ... more of a tip of the cap to the marketing efforts. This is one showy, flamboyant, often frenetic wild ride that is also a bit messy and sometimes even clunky.Hair, clothes, cars, music ... the best and worst of the 1970's ... are on full display. Christian Bale sets a new standard for worst (and most elaborate and labor-intensive) comb-over in film history. Bradley Cooper's perm wins the contest for tightest curls over Emma Thompson in Saving Mr Banks. Jeremy Renner's pompadour would make any rockabilly performer envious. And let's not forget the women. Amy Adams and Jennifer Lawrence provide a steady stream of flowing and floppy locks that would keep any shampoo or blow dryer company in business. The soundtrack, usually coordinated to story events, also includes Steely Dan, Jeff Lynne, Elton John and many others.Director Russell's most recent films include The Fighter and Silver Linings Playbook. He is obviously infatuated with odd characters who are slightly off from society. What better topic than con artists so desperate to be liked that they spend all effort trying to rip off the gullible types? Now mix that trait with the ambitious persona of Bradley Cooper's FBI Agent and the US Attorney played by Alessandro Nivola, and you have a collision of worlds that results in a fictionalized account of the ABSCAM events of the late 70's and early 80's. I say fictionalized because the film starts with a banner that states "Some of this actually happened". What did or what didn't really doesn't matter here.Who is playing whom? What is real and what is part of the con? Those are the questions that we as viewers ask, and oddly enough, these are the same questions the key characters ask. If they can't tell, we certainly have no chance.This one is all about the characters. Mr. Bale (40 lbs heavier) bears no resemblance to Batman. He embodies the falsely confident con man. Cooper is a bit over-hyped in his role, while Adams is at her best in a role that is the film's most diverse. The real explosion comes every time Jennifer Lawrence is on screen. Not only do things blow up in her kitchen, but she jolts the film in each of her scenes. Some may be tired of Ms. Lawrence's recent success, but as a film lover, I put her screen presence very near that of Marilyn Monroe. She grabs our attention and holds it. That's talent that very few possess.Supporting work that should be noted includes Louis CK as Cooper's reluctant supervisor, Michael Pena as a fake sheik (can they do that?), Jack Huston and Shea Whigaham (both from Boardwalk Empire), and the great and rarely seen Anthony Zerbe (one of the all time TV villains). There is also a high profile cameo that seems right in line with Russell's adoration of Scorcese's Goodfellas.If you are looking for a film to analyze and dissect, you will be most disappointed in this one. If you are looking for a fun, wildly visual and very entertaining retro film, this one should fit the bill. Just keep your hand on your wallet and don't be one of the suckers.
Greetings again from the darkness. Another crackling collaboration of Pixar and Disney, and as expected, it is touching, funny, thrilling and amazing to look at and watch. Only a step below Toy Story just because it is not quite as ground-breaking, though the story is even better.While I love technology and effects, I am first and foremost a story guy when it comes to movies. This has as good of story as any film you will see. My only caution is that it seems geared towards grown-ups, not kids. The montage of Carl and Ellie growing old together is without dialogue and will probably bore some kids. Their parents certainly won't be bored; however, as it will resonate with most anyone over age 40 who hasn't taken the time to chase their childhood dreams.No question, this film is a barrage of color and eccentric characters, and can even be a bit frightening at times. Still, the key to this one are the stories and quests of the elderly Mr. Fredrickson and the young Russell, trying to earn his badge of honor. From the beginning, Disney has always had a finger on the pulse of youngsters. Here, we aren't given the usual Hollywood garbage of brainiac kids who make the adults look stupid. Instead we are given a pudgy, slightly goofy kid just trying to get his parents to take note.Special kudos to Ed Asner for bringing Mr. Fredrickson to life ... in good times and bad. He never goes overboard and is quite often absolutely perfect. Christopher Plummer has a limited role as bad guy Charles Muntz. Or is he really so bad? Cast aside by society, he has spent his life searching for redemption.I am not saying the kids won't enjoy, but I am saying make sure parents and grandparents tag along. You will be entertained, delighted and moved.
Greetings again from the darkness. For the life of me, I don't understand how a filmmaker can create a movie around the marvelous writings of Jane Austen and literally suck all of the soul and spirit from every single character! It's as if director Robin Swicord assumes that just by mentioning the classic novels, everyone will swoon at her movie and her characters. Wrong!! First of all, how about tossing in a likable character? The closest we have here is pretty boy Hugh Dancy (no, not Darcy) who is not only a very nice and sensitive guys (guess what, he has older sisters!), but in a tip of the cap to the ultimate dream guy ... he also has lots of money! OK, he has a few flaw ... he doesn't vacuum his car.Somehow every female character in this film is miserable in their life and more importantly, miserable to watch on screen. Could someone PLEASE tell Kathy Baker to shut up? And Amy Brenneman ... supposedly devastated when her hubby dumps her ... her reaction is to stop wearing make-up. Now THAT is heartfelt pain. I am not going to say much about Maggie Grace in her role as a selfish little lesbian princess who has no clue what caring or giving is, but is quick to rip everyone else's thoughts. Maria Bello's character gets a really raw deal. The film starts out with all her friends making fun of her miserably lonely life because she has a funeral for her prize dog. A lousy start to a lousy film. Worst of all is how the great Emily Blunt is treated. Why would this beautiful and intelligent woman, who is going through a rough time in her marriage, even consider messing around with a student? Plain ridiculous.As if all that weren't enough, I really felt embarrassed for Vanessa Redgrave, who is forced to act like a clown and then written out in a cheap TV movie plot twist. Then, just when you think it can't get any worse, the last 10 minutes are hokey, gutless and just pathetic. If you want a quality chick flick, see "In Her Shoes" or "The Devil Wears Prada" ... or better yet, pick up and read any of Jane Austen's marvelous novels.
Greetings again from the darkness. If you have read many of my reviews, you are aware that if I didn't enjoy watching it, I won't enjoy writing about it. Also, I (foolishly?) refuse to give up hope on writer/director M Night Shyamalan. If such a creative mind can go so flat, what chance do I have? While much has been written about the influence of Scientology on this project, I can only talk to my personal reaction to the movie and story, not the possible ties to that organization.Will Smith has proved many times that he is quite a charismatic screen presence when the material allows. However, his role here compares to telling Elvis not to sing or swivel his hips. Smith plays General Cypher Raige, the most courageous Ranger from an advanced civilization living 1000 years in the future. His young son Kitai is played by Smith's real son Jaden (The Karate Kid remake). The elder Raige is a super soldier, but a lousy father. Kitai wants nothing more than to become a Ranger and prove himself to his legendary father, while redeeming himself from an earlier mishap that had him watching his big sister get killed.The movie kicks into gear after a crash that finds only two survivors ... father and son Raige's ... stranded on an inhospitable Earth. Except for a few pretty lousy looking special effects (CGI), a very annoyed Earth is the best part of the movie. The worst part is a near lifeless (double meaning) father Raige tracking the younger Raige on a near impossible mission, all while confined to the wreckage with two broken legs. Somehow this advanced civilization has only invented a weapon that would be effective and cool in today's world. It seems pretty antiquated when fighting off Ursa, the blind beast that smells fear in humans. Only those who show no fear have a shot at survival.And that's pretty much what this movie is about. Man against Nature, and Man (boy) overcoming his own fears. The story is interesting enough and Earth is fascinating, though could have been ever better. What doesn't work is that Jaden Smith just isn't yet at the level to carry a movie of this level. His emotions are limited to furrowed brow and looking longingly at his dad. Even worse is watching Will Smith incapacitated and stoic in his every move.The movie gives every indication of a pet project that Will Smith developed as a star-making outing for his son. Heck, we all wish we could do such for our kids. Unfortunately, better timing and a better fit would have upped the odds that it would pay off for the Smith family, as well as us movie-goers. So ... my Shyamalan wait continues.
Greetings again from the darkness. Russian-American writer/philosopher Ayn Rand is best known for her novels The Fountainhead and Atlas Shrugged. She is the founder of Objectivism (as opposed to collectivism) which has become the foundation for the Libertarian Party in the U.S. Both novels make for fascinating and thought-provoking reading, and many interviews and writings featuring Ms. Rand will question your beliefs and today's society. Unfortunately, her words and thoughts have just not translated well to the silver screen.Ms. Rand was hired to adapt her own novel for this film version, and her stubbornness led to the two main weaknesses: the casting of Gary Cooper and the too long and too convoluted final courtroom speech. Cooper, a Hollywood legend and already a four time Oscar nominee by this time, was simply too old to play the idealistic architect Howard Roark. His stilted acting, such an advantage to High Noon a few years later, really bogged down many scenes in this one.Newcomer Patricia Neal (22 years old) was cast and she brings much needed energy to the story, though her inexperience shows in a couple of crucial moments. Contrast her performance here with her Oscar winning performance in Hud (1963), where she was in complete command. Sadly, Ms. Neal had a series of strokes in the mid-1960's and her recovery caused her to turn down the iconic role of Mrs. Robinson in The Graduate (1967).Other support work in the movie is quite effective. Raymond Massey (so great in East of Eden) is terrific in the William Randolph Hearst-inspired role of powerful newspaper publisher, and Robert Douglas is expertly conniving as the self-centered villain and architecture critic. King Vidor, a 5 time Oscar nominee, does his best to overcome the challenges provided by Cooper and Ms. Rand's script, and for the most part, the film is interesting and enjoyable enough to watch. It's a bit frustrating to think what might have been.Howard Roark's final courtroom speech/closing was at the time the longest soliloquy yet seen on a movie screen. Supposedly, Mr. Cooper didn't really understand it and his delivery makes that pretty easy to believe. Refusing to compromise on one's beliefs and talent, and the theory that all we have are our convictions and integrity is simple enough to understand. The arguments ensue when the collectivists state that society depends on the creations of men, and these creations are owed to society, and the most talented of us should serve others. The film's method of making this point probably won over very few people with it's theme: "To want nothing. To expect nothing. To depend on nothing."
Greetings again from the darkness. The trailers and the involvement of director Paul Greengrass and Matt Damon gave me the initial impression this was to be little more than a "Bourne" rip-off. I am happy to report that's not the case. This is a fantastic story that is a cross between an Iraqi War movie and political thriller.Matt Damon plays an officer responsible for following the military intel for WMD locales in the early days of the invasion. He gets more frustrated and untrusting as each target comes up empty. When he questions the intel to his superiors, he is "politely" told to follow his orders. At the same time, he is approached by a grizzled CIA veteran played by Brendan Gleeson. The CIA happens to agree with Damon's character ... the intel is faulty and the belief is an ulterior motive is at play by the administration.Of course, this is not a documentary. It is merely another step in the exploration of what the driving force was for invading Iraq in the first place. Were WMD's a cover for the pursuit of Saadam? The script is based on a book, and leads us to believe the WMD intel was rigged because that was a great reason to present to our allies and citizens. The disconnect between the administration and the CIA appears evident. A smarmy Greg Kinnear plays an administration official who has much power ... and a special forces team reporting directly to him.The film highlights the blunders and poor decisions made early on in the invasion. Not really sure if they were blunders or if the mission was simply misguided. Either way, this makes for a great story and an intense one to follow. A real statement is made when one of the locals who has been assisting Damon, surprises him and states something along the lines of "You don't get to decide the fate of my country". That's not the exact quote, but it is the key point the film is making.The bad news is that Paul Greengrass is at his shaky camera worst. The first 15 minutes of the film and the climax chase scene to, through and outside the safe house were so bad that I felt queasy. I love well placed hand-held camera work, but this was beyond extreme - it was quite simply over the top and distracts from what should have been a near-classic.
Greetings again from the darkness. Director Todd Phillips has become comedy director du jour thanks first to "Old School" and the more recent mega-blockbuster "The Hangover". This film is not quite at the level of the two prior films, but it certainly holds it own in today's multiplex. In other words, it has some laughs ... even a few laugh outloud moments. Especially if you have somehow managed to avoid the trailers.The best way I can describe this one is as an updated "Planes, Trains and Automobiles", only with Todd Phillips humor, rather than John Hughes humanity. That being said, Mr. Phillips does work hard at minimizing the gross-out factor and does try to instill some true character development with Robert Downey, Jr and Zach Galifianakis. The element of fatherhood, both loss of and becoming one, plays a role as these two opposites bang heads for 3 days.Ethan (Zach G) is an actor-wannabe, motivated by the sitcom Two and a Half Men. He is an excessively annoying individual who displays only the rarest moments of rationale behavior. Downey, Jr is reunited with his "Kiss, Kiss, Bang, Bang" co-star Michelle Monaghan as an uptight architect (Peter) and his soon to deliver first child wife (Sarah). They get little screen time together, but the relationship plays a role. Circumstances cause Ethan and Peter into a rental car and cross country race to get Peter home before Sarah delivers.The road trip includes a Western Union run in with Danny McBride, a pit stop for glaucoma meds with Juliette Lewis and a quick ride from Jamie Foxx, after Ethan falls asleep at the wheel and they fly off a highway ramp. Just when things seem better, Ethan partakes in some of the medication, takes a wrong turn and the two find themselves at the Mexico border, glassy eyes and all. This all occurs while Ethan and his dog work to befriend Peter, while transporting not only the "meds", but also Ethan's deceased father's ashes ... in a coffee can.Many of the gags are predictable, but some are quite funny. It doesn't have near the gross-out element of "The Hangover", except for Ethan's pre-bedtime ritual and his matching dog. Would have liked a few more segments with cameos - maybe the other guys from "The Hangover", because the attempt at making these guys appreciate each other falls a bit short. The soundtrack includes Neil Young, Cowboy Junkies, Cream and Pink Floyd, so there is usually a nice background tune playing. Additionally, RDJ and Zach G prove once again that they are forces of physical comedy when provided decent material.
Greetings again from the darkness. Meryl Streep is amazing. I can't imagine how many times I have said or written that over the years. In a short period of time, we have watched her as the cold, manipulative nun in "Doubt"; the free-wheeling, singing mother of the bride in "Mamma Mia"; and now as TV and cooking icon Julie Child. She always delivers more than can be expected.That is an odd way to begin the comments on this film, but Ms. Streep is so far and away the best thing about the film, that it only seemed appropriate. She captures not just the spirit for life that Julia Child carried, but also the ambition and focus to create something for many to enjoy. Many are laughing this off as an fun loving impersonation of Ms. Child, but there is much more depth to the performance than that. She brings the pride of accomplishment to the role.I experienced a very odd sensation while watching the film. During the Julia portion, I was glued to the screen and focused on every nuance. When the "switch" would occur, I could feel the droop in my body - literally like a balloon that was losing air and then got a shot of helium for the good segments! I just found the Julie Powell chapters to be lame and a drag on the film. If not for the lovable Amy Adams, I would have thoroughly disliked Ms. Powell and her selfish antics. No wonder Ms. Child was no fan.Definitely a must see for the amazing Meryl performance. I know it's early, but another Oscar nomination seems a must for this treasure of film.
Greetings again from the darkness. Let's tip our ski masks and flamethrowers to John W Campbell Jr. He wrote the 1938 novella that has inspired 3 versions of The Thing, plus the Alien series and numerous other sci-fi movies and TV episodes. This latest version is actually a pre-quel to the 1982 film John Carpenter's The Thing starring Kurt Russell. First time feature director Matthijs van Heijningen Jr does a nice job of staying true to Carpenter's version and offering a back-story, while still coming across fresh for a new generation.Going back to 1951, The Thing from Another Planet succeeded in frightening a bunch of young filmgoers and hooking them on sci-fi and terror at the theatre. In that version, James Arness (later famous as Marshal Dillon in Gunsmoke) was a hulking creature responsible for many nightmares for kids in the 50's. John Carpenter updated the look in 1982 with a version that has become classic sci-fi and horror, and now this version takes advantage of today's spectacular special effects.The special effects do dominate and that's not necessarily a bad thing. The creature and its process are on full display quite a lot, so instead of suspense, we get outright fright shown by the research team. If you aren't aware, this research station is located in Antarctica and the frozen tundra and isolation are characters unto themselves. There is very little character development in this most recent version. We do get a Ripley-esque Kate played by Mary Elizabeth Winstead (Death Proof cheerleader), a misguided scientist (is there another type?) played by Ulrich Thomsen, and a right guy in the wrong place nice guy played by Joel Edgerton (Animal Kingdom, Warrior). The rest of the cast are mostly Norwegian dudes who surely have had better vacations than this.The movie has a couple of very nice shots depicting the frozen terrain and a very cool overhead of the creature frozen in ice. Other than that, fans of the 1982 version will be glad to know that the flamethrowers are back, as is the dog. Just know that this one is driven by special effects, so if you are up for a creature/alien film, you'll probably be satisfied.
Greetings again from the darkness. With the uproar from fans of Alice Sebold's novel, I am actually glad I have not read it yet (though I will). I found director Peter Jackson's take to be very interesting, attention-grabbing and well filmed. The fact that the actual murder and rape are not shown did not affect my ability to connect.Certainly not a who-dunnit, the viewer instead is exposed to the many forms of grief after a family tragedy. I found myself quite angry at Rachel Weisz (the mom) for deserting her kids, though I understand the clash with Mark Wahlberg's (the dad) approach. Not only was I angry at her as a parent, but as a viewer, her running away meant more screen time for Susan Sarandon, which is rarely a good thing.Saoirse Ronan (excellent in Atonement) plays Susie, the victim of neighbor Stanley Tucci's crime. Tucci is my favorite kind of movie villain ... non-descript and blends right in. I find that to be the creepiest possible monster - the one that lives amongst us. Some of Jackson's camera work with Tucci is fascinating and frightening. We can't wait to see this guy burn.Again, I consider myself lucky in that I can appreciate the film for what it is rather than comparing to a great book. Oh, and don't miss Peter Jackson as the customer playing with the video camera in the store when Wahlberg picks up the first roll of developed film.
Greetings again from the darkness. Sixty years after Godzilla made his initial screen appearance, we get a full blown Hollywood special effects blockbuster version that will eclipse the $100 million mark in its first weekend. This is director Gareth Edwards second feature film (Monsters, 2010) and he juggles the modern day re-imagining with the Japanese roots and a hand full of other tributes throughout.The cast seems impressive: Bryan Cranston, Juliette Binoche, Elizabeth Olsen, Sally Hawkins and David Strathairn. Unfortunately, most of these fine actors have little to do, and instead the dominant human presence (most every scene) is Aaron Taylor-Johnson (Kick-Ass) who somehow keeps getting gigs despite lacking even a dollop of screen presence or acting ability. Of course, this movie is supposed to belong to Godzilla, and even he is usurped on screen time by two nuclear-feasting praying mantis creatures that share some attributes with the classic Alien. These screen hogs are called MUTO's (Massive Unidentified Terrestrial Organisms) and are quite substantial ... crushing skyscrapers by landing.The 1954 original film was an anti-nuclear statement, though the re-edited U.S. version replaced the political statement with Raymond Burr. Mr. Burr also appeared in the 1984 sequel which included a storyline of feeding off a nuclear plant (borrowed in this year's version). This film's prologue featuring Bryan Cranston working at a 1999 nuclear plant is an unmistakable nod to the recent Fukushima disaster, and sets the stage for the collision of science (Watanabe) and military (Strathairn). Director Edwards clearly enjoys his Jaws-like teasing of Godzilla, who finally shows up after almost an hour. And despite the Jurassic Park roar by our titular monster, this doesn't hold a candle to Spielberg's 1993 classic. We do get the quite familiar shots of bystanders running down the street, glancing back in fear - a must for any monster movie.Having seen this one in 3D, I'll mention again that the enhanced effects offered by this technology do not offset the darkened, dulled look. Add that to the almost total lack of color - it's borderline Black and White - and there are simply too few breathtaking visual moments to consider this a monster classic.
Greetings again from the darkness. Major dilemma: I am a sucker for courtroom dramas vs. I am no fan of Matthew McConaughey. I decided to give it a shot, and given my low expectations, I found the movie to be quite entertaining - despite its numerous flaws. If you are a fan of the endless stream of John Grisham book-turned-movie, then I expect you will find this one to your taste.Based on the Michael Connelly series of novels built around Mick Haller, this one has the look and feel of part one. Haller is the Lincoln Lawyer, so named because of his propensity to handle much of his work from the backseat of a classic Lincoln Town Car. The choice of McConaughey as Haller seemed all together wrong given his annual appearance in some lame ass Rom-Com, where he spends most of each movie shirtless and smirking. Luckily for us, Mr. McConaughey manages to re-capture some of the acting skills he flashed in A Time to Kill, so many years ago.In addition to his close to the vest portrayal of Haller, the movie works because of an incredibly deep cast that includes Marisa Tomei as his ex-wife and frequent courtroom adversary (she is an ADA), Ryan Phillipe as the accused rich boy, William H Macy as the long-time and streetwise private investigator, Josh Lucas as the ADA in the main case, Bryan Cranston as the detective in charge, plus Michael Pena, Bob Gunton (warden from Shawshank), John Leguizamo, Frances Fisher, Laurence Mason (Earl the driver), Shea Willingham (Boardwalk Empire), Trace Adkins (country star as the leader of a biker gang) and Michael Pare (Eddie and Cruisers). Seriously, this cast allows every scene to have something worth watching.The two things that prevent the movie from being top notch are the beyond belief exaggerated moments (including about 3 too many endings) and the absolutely distracting camera work courtesy of director Brad Furman. In the hands of a more experienced director, many of the flaws could have been corrected.This is not presented as an ultra serious courtroom drama in the vein of 12 Angry Men or Judgment at Nuremberg. Rather it is a character driven story with a multitude of twists ... some of which work and some of which don't. I found it to be quite enjoyable despite the script issues and the hey-look-at-me direction.
Greetings again from the darkness. I would venture a guess that most are as uninformed as I about this brief, but altogether impactive and fascinating period of history in Denmark. The story is bookended with the (late 17th century) letter that a seriously ill and deposed Queen Caroline sent to her children, the eldest who would later become King Frederick VI. Director Nikolaj Arcel co-wrote the script with Rasmus Heisterberg (the two also collaborated on the original The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo), and present insight into a most bizarre love triangle and power struggle that instigates national change ... and then a severe reversal ... and then change again.We meet the luminous Caroline (Alicia Vikander from Anna Karenina) as she is traveling from England for her initial meeting with her new husband, King Christian VII of Denmark. Unfortunately, this intellectual and talented woman is stuck with a mentally unstable and childlike spouse. Once she fulfills her duty by delivering a son, the chamber visits are cut off and the two live mostly separate lives. The king is manipulated and controlled by the court and mostly just does what he is told to do, and signs what he is supposed to sign. This keeps the aristocracy fat and happy, while continuing the harsh policies against the poor peasants.A local doctor is arranged for the king's European tour and we discover that this doctor has learned how to co-exist and gain the trust of the odd king. What few know is that this doctor ... Johann Struensee is a revolutionary thinker and follower of Voltaire and Rousseau. He seeks social reform in Denmark and soon schemes with the idealistic queen to use Christian as their mouthpiece and gain control of the court.It's not long before Caroline and Struensee are sharing much more than ideas, and the big question is ... will their downfall be their ideas for enlightenment or their dangerous love affair? Speaking of the love affair, it bears mention that this is one of those rare, believable stories of true soul mates. Most movies, especially costume dramas, have us believe that soul mates are created by an exchange of glances across a crowded room. Here, the love between these two grows in step with their ideas for social reform. In other words, there is more than lust between Caroline and Struensee.Sometimes the story gets a bit muddled between the love affair and the political maneuvering, but it's not difficult to imagine that this was a real struggle during this period. These are real people with real issues and it's a pleasure to watch the tangled web.Mads Mikkelsen is known to most as the villain Le Chiffre in Casino Royale. Here he captures the nuances of Dr Struensee as both a revolutionary figure and an illicit lover. Alicia Vikander is clearly on the verge of stardom and is wonderful as the complex Caroline. The real scene stealer here is Mikkel Boe Folsgaard as Christian. This key role could have easily spoiled the film in the wrong actor's hands. Instead he balances the mental issues with enough doubt that we viewers are left wondering how much is illness and how much is insecurity ... just how much did he understand? This is a very well crafted, if somewhat conventional film that tells a remarkable story from a turbulent time in Denmark. It's a story that deserves a greater audience and this Oscar contender should provide just that.
Greetings again from the darkness. Sid and Marty Kroft were the original producers of the 1970's TV series of the same name. While there are plenty of nods to its roots (old Universal logo, the cave free fall to the new dimension, etc), this one really falls flat all by itself. I believe most of the discredit should go to the writers, but all involved deserve their fair share. Will Ferrell must have spent about a week on this project.While there are a few funny moments, this one just can't ever pick a direction and go. It can't be considered a tribute or parody of the original, doesn't qualify as an adult comedy and certainly is no family friendly comedy. It's not even mediocre sci-fi (despite the voice over by Leonard Nimoy) Ferrell, Danny Boyle (Tropic Thunder) and Anna Friel (Pushing Daisies) all have their moments, but unfortunately this is mostly just a sloppy project and I don't feel like putting any more effort into writing about it.
Greetings again from the darkness. It's been a few months since I saw a screening, and I'm a bit surprised it's getting a wide release. On one hand, it's the directorial debut of the very talented and popular Joseph Gordon-Levitt. On the other hand, the subject matter is not exactly mainstream ... he plays a compulsive type who is addicted to online porn.There is a lot to like here. It's a front line observation of some things going on in society right now. Technology has quickly sucked away much of our face to face social interaction. Jon (JGL) has a compulsive personality. He is obsessed with cleaning his apartment, showing off his muscle car, perfecting his body at the gym, continuing his string of one-night stands with hot girls, and last but not least ... online porn. He sees nothing wrong with his addiction but readily admits his real life conquests don't meet his standards - no matter how pretty or personable they might be. Still, he goes through the motions of dance club pursuits to keep up his image with his buddies.Even when he heads home for dinner with his family, communication is a mess. His sister (the great Brie Larson) never puts down her phone. His parents (Glenne Hedley and Tony Danza) are bombastic and emotional. When Jon meets a "dime" (translated to a perfect 10 ... why didn't Blake Edwards think of that?), his mother talks only of grandkids and his dad congratulates him on "a nice piece of ___" (you get the point).See, this "dime" is Barbara, played by Scarlett Johansson. She has the look Jon so values and since he has no concept of how a relationship works, she easily manipulates him to transition into her ideal man (rom-com movies, college courses, etc). In a very telling scene, Barbara and Jon take in a Rom-Com spoof "based on a novel by Nicholas Sparks" and starring Anne Hathaway and Channing Tatum. Barbara's perfect man is a fictionalized knight in shining armor, while Jon's perfect woman is the latest porn star. Though the issues are identical, neither sees their own flaws ... only that of the other.The story takes a dramatic turn when Jon meets Esther (Julianne Moore) in a somewhat embarrassing incident (for him). The budding relationship between the older mentor and her student of life could have made a much more interesting movie and she guides him down a path of self-discovery.JGL, Scarlett and Ms. Moore are all very good in their roles, as is the entire supporting cast (Danza especially humorous as the perfectly cast dad). Although there are some very humorous scenes and lines in the film, I found it somewhat dis-spiriting due to the observations it makes on the young adult generation. The final act seemed a bit too clean for real life, but that doesn't take away from what is really a nice first outing for Joseph Gordon-Levitt as a filmmaker. Stay tuned as I expect even better from him in the future.
Greetings again from the darkness. The best I can do here is give this one credit for trying to be a little different. From the opening credits when we are told ''You wouldn't believe how much of this is true', the quasi-farcical approach works sometimes and falls flat at other time.George Clooney begins the film at his deadpan best, but the story is so convoluted, that even he doesn't know what to do with it after that. Can't even tell you why Ewan McGregor would take his role unless he owed actor-turned-director Grant Heslov a favor. Kevin Spacey sleepwalks through another performance, though Jeff Bridges does have some fun in a 1960's style montage.Mostly all I can say is I am confused how a film with so much seemingly going on, could actually be so boring. The story needed to take a real direction instead of bouncing around between is it a real secret spy program, or is it a film of self-discovery, or is it a parody, or is it a commentary? Some filmmakers can mesh different styles, but rather than meshed, this one was just messy.
Greetings again from the darkness. I realize I am in the vast minority here, but I found little to laugh about in this vile, mean spirited glamorized SNL skit. Sacha Baron Cohen's Borat character is on the surface a wonderful vision, but rather than tap new comedic ground and push the political humor boundaries, it instead slams us with mean-spirited pranks and jackass style segments.Of course, I understand why Gen X and Gen Y will think it cool to jump on the bandwagon, but I see no genius or brilliance as displayed by Mel Brooks, Kevin Smith or even Jon Stewart. This one trick pony runs out of gas once he finishes his tour of his hometown.I will not be surprised if one day Mr. Cohen does in fact break new comedic boundaries, but "Borat" will not be the project and will be soon forgotten in the world of political comedies. Just another wonderful premise gone awry, which is a shame since the great Larry Charles ("Seinfeld" "Curb Your Enthusiasm" "Entourage") is featured as the director. Always hate to see another Seinfeld alum fail.
Greetings again from the darkness. Who among us isn't intrigued by a real life "unsolved" murder mystery? Throw in a very wealthy New York real estate family, a never-discovered body, an executed friend, and a horrible childhood trauma and it is certain to draw the attention of filmmaker Andrew Jarecki. Jarecki's film "Capturing the Friedmans" won numerous awards and is among the best documentaries ever made. He has a knack with dark family secrets.In the film, Ryan Gosling plays David Marks, disenchanted son of Real Estate mogul Sanford Marks (a powerful Frank Langella), who witnessed the grisly suicide of his mother when he was very young. David meets the energetic and affectionate Katie (Kirsten Dunst) and the two dreamers escape Daddy's clutches and head to Vermont to open a health food store. Finally wilting under pressure from Sanford, the couple returns to the city and David joins the family business. The good things are soon to end.Since much of the real life story is still a mystery, Jarecki does a nice job in assembling pieces from the trial records. Along the way, we meet David's friend Deborah Lehrman (Lilly Rabe), an acclaimed writer who seems to always be there for David ... as he is for her. We witness the transformation of David from loving husband to mentally disturbed murder suspect.Jarecki gives us some guidance on what might have happened and how the plan could have been executed, but we'll never know for sure. What we do know is that there was not much happiness associated with this family, despite the wealth and 42nd Street real estate holdings.The acting in the film is tremendous. Gosling, Dunst and Langella are top notch. Yes, Ms. Dunst provides what is easily her best screen performance ever. Support work from Lily Rabe, Phillip Baker Hall, Nick Offerman and Kristen Wiig is all strong and believable. This one will give you the creeps ... and rightly so.
Greetings again from the darkness. You may be familiar with the source material - the huge best selling novel from Markus Zusak. If not, you may be surprised at the "through the eyes" of an illiterate, orphaned child's perspective of the German home front during WWII. You may be more surprised to learn that it's narrated by The Grim Reaper (British actor Roger Allam), and includes a Nazi rally, book-burning, bomb shelters, a look at the anti-Jew and anti-Communist movements, the German conscription/military draft and the dangers associated with hiding a Jew in one's basement.There is no denying the melodramatic nature of the story, but this one avoids schmaltz thanks to the remarkable performances of the great Geoffrey Rush and Emily Watson, and especially Sophie Nelisse as the incredibly perceptive Liesel who provides the innocence and powers of observation that prove to us (and Death) that good people will do extraordinary things no matter the atrocious conditions.As Liesel's foster parents, Rush plays a warm-hearted WWI veteran and Watson plays a cantankerous, grounded woman hiding the emotion she carries for her husband and new daughter. The biggest piece of hiding involves Max, a young Jewish man who is the son of a soldier who once saved the life of Rush's character. Max and Liesel have a wonderful bond as he teaches her to speak through her eyes and she nurses him back to health by sharing her new found joy of reading.The ghost of the boy who lived in the shadows ... from H.G. Wells "The Invisible Man" plays a key role as Liesel tries to make sense of a world that delivers a daily dose of relentless danger. As she develops her love and dependence on the written word, it's clear that to survive in these times, one must have something that provides hope. The unusual story structure with the odd narrator, and a mix of wry humor, keep us connected with the characters and allow the humanity to shine through. Still, I challenge you to watch this without a lump in your throat. www.MovieReviewsFromTheDark.wordpress.com
Greetings again from the darkness. From the very beginning, this is not your daddy's shoot 'em up. Veggies as a weapon are rare in film but the combination of humor and over the top action sequences make this a fun visual bullet ballet. What keeps it from being really good is the weak attempt at plot. Writer/director Michael Davis is actually responsible for both the good and the bad here.Clive Owen is the mysterious carrot man whose killing skills are among the most creative and expeditious ever filmed. Paul Giamatti is the growling bad guy with more than a touch of weirdness and an endless stream of punchlines. Monica Bellucci is the lactating hooker whom Owen bribes into assisting with the safe passage of a new born baby. Oh sorry, forgot to mention the opening sequence where Owen delivers a baby while shooting at bad guys.No amount of words can do the action sequences justice. They are a rush to watch even though you find yourself laughing or at least smirking through much of it. Owen really seems at ease in this odd role and he pulls in a bit from his "Sin City" turn, while the film offers elements of both "Kill Bill" and "Grindhouse".Quite a bit of fun to watch, but the whole gun control element should have been written out and Davis should have concentrated on what he obviously has a talent for.
Greetings again from the darkness. To understand why this is considered a masterpiece of cinema and one of the best films ever made, one must put the era of its release into perspective. It's 1948 - post war Italy and poverty is everywhere. Humanity is difficult to come by. Hollywood is in a glitz and glamor mode, while Italian cinema has been dominated with light-hearted and simple films. Vittorio De Sica is a matinée idol as an actor and also, as a director, one of the driving forces of Neo-realism ... a genre that focused on the struggles of real people.There is nothing fancy or complicated about this story. Ricci is one of the masses looking for work at a time when jobs are beyond scarce. One day he is extremely fortunate to be offered a job posting signs around town. He is elated at the opportunity to again provide for his wife and young son. The only catch ... he must have a bicycle for the job. His wife pawns their bedsheets to retrieve the bicycle and we join in with their pride and happiness brought on by this job.We see Ricci on a ladder posting a Rita Hayworth movie advertisement ... an example of Hollywood's polar opposite approach to movies as compared to the Italian neo-realism. While on the ladder, Ricci witnesses the theft of his precious bicycle. His frantic reaction demonstrates the loss means so much more than the loss of two-wheeled transportation. It's actually the loss of hope.Soon enough Ricci and his young son Bruno are searching the streets of Rome trying to find the bicycle. It plays like a road trip movie as they experience many interactions on the streets and back alleys. Their search is painful to watch and father and son endure many emotions, none more powerful than the last few minutes and a touching final shot that is a tribute to the great Charlie Chaplin.All three lead actors are first timers which adds to the realistic look and feel of the characters and stories. Lamberto Maggiorani (Ricci) was a factory worker who showed up for auditions. He is a very striking man with a Daniel Day-Lewis appearance. Enzo Staiola (Bruno) was a 7 year old boy just watching the whole movie process when he was picked out of the crowd and cast. Lianella Carell (Maria) was a journalist on set to interview De Sica when he cast her as the wife/mother. Additionally, most of this was filmed on the streets and on location in Rome (very few sets).The actual Italian title is "Ladri di biciclette" which translates into Bicycle Thieves, but it has been best known in the U.S. as The Bicycle Thief. It's based on a novel by Luigi Bartolini and the screenplay comes from the incredibly prolific screenwriter Cesare Zavattini, who worked with most of the great filmmakers from the 1940's through the 1970's. Also of note, Sergio Leone was an assistant to director Vittorio De Sica during production. De Sica directed many wonderful films including Sunshine (1947), which looked at juvenile corruption, and Umberto D. (1952) which examined old age.Many question the status of this film as a masterpiece all these years later, but I certainly still experience it's powerful and sensitive message, and would recommend to anyone who admires world cinema and the classics.
Greetings again from the darkness. Don't you feel sorry for the smart, rich doctor with the beautiful and successful wife, luxury apartment and appointment book full of patients, one whom he loudly humiliates for her feelings? We just want Hector to be happy. Or do we? Personally, I didn't give a rip about Hector.Based on the novel by Francois Lelord, the movie stars Simon Pegg as Hector, a psychiatrist bored with the every day rituals he has set up for himself. A rare two minutes of soul-searching leads Hector to pause his life and embark on a mission to discover the true meaning of happiness. See, Hector believes he can no longer help his patients until he helps himself. My take is that Hector can't help his patients because he isn't even trying ... he is a narcissist and a jerk who can't appreciate the moments that make life grand. My disgust towards people like Hector made his journey much less entertaining and enlightening for me than if the character were someone I cared for.If all that weren't bad enough, the first person Hector meets on his trip is an obnoxious business man (Stellan Skarsgard) whose key feature is that he is much richer than Hector. The two grown men tour Shanghai and the night is capped with the gift of a prostitute with a heart. This is no spoiler because Hector is the only one who doesn't know she is a prostitute. After this, he hangs out with Tibetan monks and sets up their Skype (of course he does).Along the way, Hector's OCD traits cause him to maintain a journal filled with self-help one-liners and funny drawings of his sights. His spontaneous travel itinerary and endless budget take him next to "Africa" - quotations for the generic and clichéd approach the film provides. When Hector is imprisoned by rebels, there was glimmer of hope for the movie, but soon enough, a previous favor for a drug lord (Jean Reno) pays dividends.Somehow the movie has less insight than the similarly themed EAT PRAY LOVE, and certainly less creativity than The Secret Life of Walter Mitty. Hector's approach even blatantly borrows from the "Tintin" stories, and makes no apology for doing so. The only moment with any emotional depth comes when Toni Collette lashes out with armchair psychology and tells Hector exactly what he is.Despite all of the short-comings, I will always pay admission if a movie includes a 3 minute monologue from the great Christopher Plummer, an especially welcome sight here. Simon Pegg, though an incredibly gifted comic actor, is over the top miscast here. His persona is distracting to the point that we never once believe he could be a psychiatrist or that Rosamund Pike would find him appealing. But the single biggest obstacle is that an audience finds it difficult to root for a narcissistic protagonist who believes that there must be some magic potion for happiness ... maybe sweet potato stew.
Greetings again from the darkness. Director Sidney Lumet's incredible film career span 60 years and includes some of Hollywood's best ever. Sadly, his last really good film was "The Verdict" in 1982. What prevents 'Devil' from being really good is a pathetically weak script penned by Kelly Masterson. This is listed as Masterson's first credit, and what a shame Lumet and a terrific cast were wasted on this unworthy material.Suspension of disbelief doesn't begin to justify the plot holes and ridiculous moments, but what proves truly fascinating is that Lumet and the cast still deliver a watchable film. Philip Seymour Hoffman, Ethan Hawke and Albert Finney are all outstanding in creating one of the most dysfunctional families you will find outside of a Wes Anderson film. Watching Finney once he starts solving the crime is downright frightening. Hoffman and Hawke both capture desperation is much different but effective ways. Hoffman and Hawke's scenes together are the film's best.Much ado about Marisa Tomei's nude scenes and though not distracting to the story (mostly because the story is stupid), certainly nothing to the script depends on her flashing so much skin. She is a fine actress who needs more roles like "In the Bedroom" and less that require lip biting and breast exposure.Watching Lumet deftly handle the non-linear story line and the panic of Hoffman and Hawke make us realize just how good he is as a director. The best is his following of Hoffman through the apartment during his "quiet" tantrum after Tomei leaves him.So this one is worth seeing to see real film pros like Lumet, Hoffman and Finney; but also a great exercise in mentally re-writing a script on the fly!
Greetings again from the darkness. Sometimes it's nice to to just sit back and enjoy a pretty simple and familiar story with (mostly) likable people and an uplifting message. Don't worry, I'm not going soft on movies ... it's just that I found this little movie made me laugh and smile, and despite the formulaic approach (it plays like a sports movie) it made me care what happened to the characters (even though there was never any real doubt).Jon Favreau plays Carl Casper, the chef at a swanky L.A. restaurant owned by Dustin Hoffman. When a powerful food critic (Oliver Platt) is headed their way, chef and owner butt heads like the true artist and bean-counter they are. The Chef wants to wow the critic with a unique meal, while the owner wants to stick to what's been filling seats for a decade. Guess who wins? Once the Chef's public berating of the critic goes viral on social media, the soul-searching begins. Our hero soon learns that all phases of life - including parenting and cooking - work out much better when passion and full attention are in place. The film is a not so subtle reminder to all of us that our attitude determines our altitude (thanks to Zig Ziglar).This is a remarkable cast, many of which appear on screen for only a short time. The Chef's lead assistants are comprised of Bobby Cannavale and John Leguizamo. The maitre'd is Scarlett Johansson. Chef's ex-wife is played by Sophia Vergara, and her other ex-husband is Robert Downey Jr in a hilariously mind-muddling scene. Amy Sedaris has a funny scene as the fast-talking publicist and comedian Russell Peters plays a photo-happy Miami Beach cop. Even Emjay Anthony, as the young son Percy, has some nice moments.Mr. Favreau has had a remarkably varied film career as a writer, director, producer and actor. He wears all of those hats here. It's clearly a personal project for him and he wears it well, though a bit of script tightening could have elevated the film a notch. You might remember him from writing and starring in (with Vince Vaughn) Swingers in 1996, and of course, he more recently directed colossal blockbusters Iron Man and Iron Man II. It's been quite a career, and it's nice to see him take on the smaller, more personal projects again.The best "foodie" movies I can recall are Mostly Martha (2001), Eat Drink Man Woman (1994) and the animated classic Ratatouille (2007). This latest culinary comedy from Favreau definitely holds it's own, and gives us an exceptional soundtrack and road trip from Miami to New Orleans to Austin and back to LA. My only wish was that the language had been toned down for a PG-13 rating so that more families could enjoy it together.
Greetings again from the darkness. This is a surprisingly wonderful adaptation of the W Somerset Maugham novel. Maugham passed away many years ago, but in his time was an incredibly famous and popular playwright and novelist. His best known work is probably "The Razor's Edge". Part of the surprise is the beauty of the film since it is directed by John Curran, who has no directing credits to his name since 1995's excellent "Babe, the pig". Curran's eye and talent are on full display here with the aesthetics of 1920's China and the devastation of cholera.The story is simple, but oh so elegant. Edward Norton and Naomi Watts are a very odd couple whom circumstances bring to an ill-conceived marriage. They are quite the odd couple and not the least bit charming together, even in the good moments. Norton stumbles on an affair between Watts and Liev Schreiber and the next thing we know Norton and Watts are on a two week journey into the depths of a Chinese jungle where a devastating cholera epidemic is occurring. The horrible situation brings out the best in each as people and finally as a couple. Along the way, their lives are impacted by two rather odd acquaintances, Toby Jones (off his fine turn as Truman Capote) and the long lost Diana Rigg as the Mother Superior at the local orphanage.The story is tight, interesting and believable ... all signs of a terrific writer. The acting is worthy of such fine material and direction. Mr. Norton is wonderful as the quietly simmering bacteriologist who lacks interpersonal skills and warmth until the tragic environment brings about self-discovery. Ms. Watts continues her amazing run of top-caliber performances and is one of our top 3 actresses today. She is so subtle at times that it is easy to take her skills for granted. Mr. Schreiber, Mr. Jones and Ms. Rigg are all excellent in their roles and lets hope that Ms. Rigg will continue to bless us with her screen magic. It has been 40 years since she was the sexy Emma Peel from "The Avengers", but her presence on the screen is very welcome and needed.There is a haunting score that continues throughout the film and some tremendous piano work credited to Lang Lang. The mood of the music and the film setting work together to deliver the effect of reading the novel as we watch the film. Quite a knockout for director Curran, who hopefully will not now disappear for the next decade!
Greetings again from the darkness. Many films have featured the lives of those struck down with a horrifying disability. Some of the best that come to mind are "My Left Foot", "Frida" and "The Sea Inside". This film belongs in the same class and is every bit as gut-wrenching and inspirational as any Hollywood fictionalized story. Try to imagine the loneliness and solitude of being "locked inside" your own mind dependent always on your left eye blinking skills and the patience of others.Mathieu Amalric (American audiences may remember him from "Munich") does a nice job of capturing both sides of Jean-Dominique Bauby, former editor of "Elle" magazine. Without the confines of a documentary, we see glimpses of the man before the stroke and there is no hesitancy to show him as an admired editor, loving father and son, and straying lover. The mother of his children is played with sensitivity by Roman Polanski's wife Emmanuel Seigner. Never once does she go over the top.Marie-Josee Croze certainly steals her scenes and Max Von Sydow is heart-breaking as Jean-Do's equally imprisoned father. The film does a good job of providing us a taste of the solitude without allowing us to suffocate. This man took an amazing step when he decided to live and communicate his thoughts and open his world to the rest of us.Director Julian Schnabel also brought us the fine biography "Before Night Falls" and is on top of his game here. The excruciating few minutes as Jean-Do struggles to explore his body and find out what works and what doesn't leave the viewer simply exhausted and drained. Nice work on the soundtrack as well, with touching songs from the great Tom Waits, as well as U2, Velvet Underground and even Joe Strummer.
Greetings again from the darkness. The most difficult movies to comment on are those in which even the filmmakers don't take themselves seriously. Here, Stallone creates a movie with his tongue firmly planted in his plastic surgery enhanced cheek. It is a bit goofy and meant to be so. The good stuff is actually pretty good, but the stuff that misses the mark is a bit painful to watch.The good stuff includes the already infamous cameo scene with Bruce Willis and Arnold Schwarzenegger. It has the single best line (maybe two) in the movie and it's just great to see Arnie back on screen. The other funny thing is the character names: Barney, Christmas, Ying Yang, Gunner, James Munroe, Toll Road, Paine, Hale Caeser, and of course, Tool. More work went into the character names than the balance of the script.The parts that don't work include the lame one-liners that Jason Statham is forced to recite throughout. Also, Stallone remains in love with his own face after all these years. I believe he is off screen for a total of 3 minutes. And enough with the Jet Li short jokes. One was plenty. We could have really used more of Terry Crews. He lights up the screen when he starts his trail of destruction.Mickey Rourke, Dolph Lundgren, Steve Austin, Eric Roberts, Randy Couture and David Zayas all have their moments. But therein lies the problem. Just can't do justice to so many characters ... or is it caricatures? This one is exactly what it was meant to be. Don't expect the world's greatest action film. Think of it as more of a Tribute Film with non-stop stunts. Oh and a blasting version of Mississippi Queen by Mountain with Leslie West.
Greetings again from the darkness. One sided films can be made about race, gender, religion, occupations and hobbies. One sided films about politics, however, tend to wreak as much havoc as the actual politics. HBO's latest from director Jay Roach and writer Danny Strong (the team behind "Recount") is based on the bestseller from political writers Mark Halperin and John Heilemann. Just as the book did, the film will bring enjoyment to the left wingers and much pain and anger to the staunch right wingers ... at least those who are unable, even 4 years later, to view the story with a hint of objectivity.I am not here to debate the political sides of the story, but rather to address how it is presented. The thing that really stands out are the Emmy-caliber performances of Ed Harris (as John McCain), Julianne Moore (as Sarah Palin) and Woody Harrelson (as Steve Schmidt). McCain comes across as a man with true ideals and patriotism, who gets caught up in the ambitious push to become President. Palin is presented as the "high risk, high reward" gamble that initially pays dividends, but ultimately backfires. Schmidt is really the key to the story as the campaign strategist who accurately reads the climate, but then fails to do his homework before turning in his assignment.The story follows the evolution of the Palin story. McCain's campaign needs a "WOW" factor and the Alaska Governor provides an energetic, charismatic woman who quickly captures the imagination of the public and media. She then fades under the pressure of being separated from her family, having family secrets publicized, and most crucially, her lack of depth on the basic foreign and domestic issues. The note-card budget for this movie must have set a record.We get a peek behind the curtain of a Presidential campaign, and see the shock on the faces of Schmidt and Nicolle Wallace (played by Sarah Paulson) as they realize too late just what they are dealing with in Palin. It was painful enough to watch what was presented to the public during this campaign, but to see what was going on behind the scenes is pure agony.Where the movie does its best work is in capsulizing what really happened in this 2008 campaign. We hear Schmidt ask, do you think the people want a "Statesman" (McCain) or a "Celebrity" (Obama)? That really is the key observation on the race. One candidate lacked real a connective personality, but fought for his country and served more upon his return. The other had few accomplishments, but had a dynamic personality that drove him to quickly become one of the most recognizable faces on the planet. Schmidt understood the need for celebrity and poof ... Palin appeared! The last segment of the film provides a glimpse into the power-hungry or at least celebrity-enjoying phase of Sarah Palin, and it looks like that persona is still going strong four years later. The film does provide some insight into the pressures of managing a campaign on the highest stage and I found it quite interesting ... even though I had to relive the chagrin I felt as more layers were peeled back on Palin back in 2008.
Greetings again from the darkness. OK, I will admit that I am a bit partial to the John Waters 1988 version, but despite a resume that includes some god-awful films ("Cheaper by the Dozen 2", "The Pacifier"), director Alan Shankman does a good job creating a fun film that doesn't lose the message.Watching this version, it is difficult to determine which is creepier: watching Travolta in drag and a fat suit or watching Divine in the original as himself. Newcomer Nikki Blonsky does a very good job in the Rikki Lake role, although her dancing seems a bit one dimensional. Michelle Pfeiffer leaves nothing in the bag, but my two favorites are Christopher Walken and Queen Latifah. Lending support are Amanda Bynes, James Marsden (Cyclops from X-Men), Brittany Snow, Elijah Kelley, Allison Janney and the rarely seen Paul Dooley.Those making appearances in both versions include Rikki Lake as a talent scout, Jerry Stiller as Mr. Pinky, and the great John Waters (fittingly enough as the town flasher). Sad to see Deborah Harry wasn't plugged in somewhere.The musical numbers are lively enough, the dancing mostly just adequate and the comedy actually quite funny at times. Watching Walken fend off Pfeiffer advances is worth the admission. Travolta plays his part a bit whiny and never really cuts loose dancing ... although he does fine with the heels on!
Greetings again from the darkness. What usually sets apart a great mystery thriller from an average one is the story. In part one of the Millennium trilogy based on Stieg Larsson's books, the story is really good, but the point of difference comes in the titular performance of Noomi Rapace as Lisbeth. American audiences are rarely treated to this type of raw, gritty performance from an actress. She alone makes the film worth seeing.Please don't get me wrong ... I really like the film. A murder mystery who-dunnit that on the surface appears like an Agathy Christie story, it quickly proves to us how looks can be deceiving - both in story line and in characters. Though the story wraps up a bit too neatly, the long winding road (over a fortuitous bridge) gives us a wild ride of hints, suspects and research that is a blast for those who enjoy such things.Michael Nyqvist stars as Mikael Blomkvist, an investigative writer who gets set up on charges of libel against a powerful businessman. While awaiting his jail time, Blomkvist is hired by an 80 year old uncle of a girl gone missing some 40 years ago. Oh yes, she is part of the Vanger family who live on a private island and who have multiple members with a history of Nazi loyalties. As Blomkvist investigates the ancient mystery, it turns out he is being followed via super-hacker Lisbeth. After a few twists, these two turn into a highly unlikely, but very interesting and effective mystery-solving couple.Besides the performance of Rapace, what really sets this one apart is that the villains really aren't the most interesting characters - Blomkvist and Lisbeth are. We are treated to a great deal of character development for both, and trust me when I say, Lisbeth's story is not pleasant.I hear this will be Americanized in the remake and that makes me sad. The edgy undercurrent of sex, abuse, politics and religious racism will undoubtedly be softened and surely the lead actress will bring little of the fascination that Noomi Rapace delivers.
Greetings again from the darkness. This is about the most fun I have had at a movie in a long time. It is inspirational and heart-felt and emotional and enlightening. This group of elderly people are true entertainers and work hard at their craft.The documentary approach by director Stpehen Walker at times is intrusive and abrupt, but the charm of the performers overcomes whatever clumsiness the film crew throws out. Choir director Bob Cilman is a pleasure to watch as he really drives the group to reach levels they otherwise wouldn't touch. Watching them try to capture a Sonic Youth song is at times painful, but in the end, redemptive. Even more painful is the "Yes I Can" sequence, but worst of all is watching one poor singer just unable to grasp his lines in the James Brown song "I Feel Good". Luckily, his onstage mishap has no bearing on the performance or his own enjoyment. What a triumphant moment.The "stars" of the group are the ultra charismatic Eileen Hall. She is 92 years of dynamite! Opening the film belting out "Should I stay or should I go?" is even better when she describes it as a "Crash" song rather than "The Clash". Without a doubt the most touching performance in the film is from the amazing voice and persona of Fred Knittle as he sings Coldplay's "Fix You" in tribute to his recently deceased singing partner.I dare anyone to keep a dry eye during Dylan's "Forever Young" or not bust out a smile during Bowie's "Golden Years". The video aspects do not take away from the film at all and "Staying Alive" will have you dancing in your seat! This is one of the special few for all ages. It is a must see and may require a little work or patience ... but it is absolutely worth the wait and the trip.
Greetings again from the darkness. If you aren't an avid reader of John le Carre' spy novels, perhaps you've seen movie versions such as Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy, The Constant Gardener, or The Russia House. If not, how about director Anton Corbijn's previous film The Amercian (2010 with George Clooney)? The more you've read and seen these, the more you are prepared for this latest.Mr. le Carre' actually was part of MI5 and MI6 (British Intelligence) and uses his experience even so many years ago to provide the type of post 9/11 anti-terrorism spy thriller that doesn't focus on explosions and gun play, but rather the subtleties of communication when very smart people go up against other very smart people who may or may not share their goals. Secrets and misdirection abound. Traps are set, and sly maneuverings are pre-planned.As if all that weren't enough, how about another mesmerizing performance from the late Philip Seymour Hoffman? He is a master at the top of his craft here. Sure, maybe the German accent is a bit distracting at first, but it was necessary because movie audiences needed a constant reminder that he is not playing an American! I cannot explain how this chain-smoking, mumbling schlub can so dominate a scene and disappear into a character, but Hoffman most certainly does both.In addition to a very cool script, excellent support work comes from Grigor Dobrygin as Issa, the central figure in Hoffman's character's work, Willem Dafoe as a somewhat shady banker, as well as Robin Wright, Daniel Bruhl, Nina Hoss, Homayoun Ershadi, and Rainer Bock. The only miscast is Rachel McAdams as rich girl turned terrorist sympathizer.Parts of the score were excellent - the droning, ominous piano notes. The composer was Herbert Gronemeyer, a German rock star (you'd never know from the score). This is a delicious, challenging look at international spies and how one never knows where they fall on the food chain ... minnow, barracuda, shark. http://moviereviewsfromthedark.com/
Greetings again from the darkness. This is a film with good genes. It's based on Ben Mezrich's novel "The Accidental Billionaires", screenplay by Aaron Sorkin ("West Wing", "A Few Good Men") and directed by one of the best directors working today, David Fincher ("Fight Club", "Zodiac"). The film is dialogue driven and my advice is to shift your ears into turbo-mode to keep up. These Harvard types never stammer and are quite speedy in making their oh-so-clever points.This film is not so much the history of Facebook as it is a glimpse into the individuals behind the idea. Foremost, of course, is Mark Zuckerberg (played with rapid-fire tunnel vision by Jesse Eisenberg). The programming guru behind the code, Zuckerberg is depicted as a guy who is not just socially inept, but also unaware of social mores and code. I am not sure if he is best described as a prodigy, genius or even (possibly) a sufferer of Asperger's Syndrome. Whatever he is/was, he became a billionaire in his early 20's by proving he could put together the world's dominant social network while having no redeeming social skills of his own. Fascinating.Zuckerberg's best and only friend (and business partner) is Eduardo Saverin (played by the next Spider-Man, Andrew Garfield). Saverin fronted the money to get Facebook started and was one of the parties who borough suit against Zuckerberg claiming he was cheated out his place in the company.The third key player is the infamous Sean Parker (played by Justin Timberlake). Founder of Napster and Plaxo, Parker manages to get his hooks into Zuckerberg and apparently was behind the snubbing of Saverin. This is the most charismatic role in the film (and real life), yet also the role that may have the most dramatic license taken.The story is told in non-linear form, weaving multiple depositions from different lawsuits. One includes the Winklevoss twins from Harvard who claim Zuckerberg stole their idea. They later settled for millions.As I said, this is not so much a history of Facebook as it is a display of the characters involved. These are all brilliant people who are also ignorant to the ways of the world. It seems they all have significantly different goals, yet never really stop to agree on strategy. Instead, the growth is non-stop, as is the back-stabbing.Interestingly, the film uses a girl (Rooney Mara) in the opening scene as the single biggest influence on Zuckerberg's brainstorm. Her rejection of his self-centered speed-talking kicks his wheels in motion and his relentless energy never slows for the rest of the story. One thing is clear, Zuckerberg did not single-handedly create Facebook and there is little doubt some key people were given short straws along the way. No matter what really happened as all that was battled out behind closed records in the settlements. What we do know is that Facebook now has over 500 million users worldwide.This is an extremely well crafted movie, though in my opinion, none of the acting is up to the script. It's a film that provides enough insight into the players and enough entertainment for the ticket. That's really sufficient. Coming next ... David Fincher is set to direct and Rooney Mara is cast as Lisbeth in the Americanized version of the fabulous Swedish hit, "The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo". So enjoy this one and look forward to that one!
Greetings again from the darkness. Writer/Director Michel Gondry proves again that he is one of the most creative forces working in film right now. Adding "Rewind" to "Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind" and "The Science of Sleep" proves this guy's mind doesn't work exactly like the rest of us ... maybe he has been magnetized! The previews make this look like a slapstick Jack Black comedy, when in reality it is a thought-provoking, even touching Com-Dram. Mos Def gives another fine performance and teams with Black's character to form the most offbeat filmmakers since John Waters and Devine. Only these guys are good natured, though a bit desperate, so their films "appeal" to everyone. Helping these two in their mission to save Danny Glover's VHS shop (brilliance in itself) are veteran Irv Gooch (funny as Wilson) and up-and-comer Melonie Diaz who reminds of the Eveready Bunny as she bounds from scene to scene. Don't miss the cameo from the great Charlie Kaufman as the West Coast Video clerk who asks Glover if he needs help.Gondry provides plenty of depth and soul to every scene and brilliantly casts Mia Farrow in a role that appears to be a reincarnation of Mia Farrow! Watching the innocence of Mos Def as he tries so hard to make his father figure Glover proud is wonderful. Sure, there is a bit of cornball at the end and Black can be over the top at times, but there are quite a few sensational moments in this one.
Greetings again from the darkness. Director Ridley Scott and Russell Crowe team up again and this time, to really spice things up, they drag Leonardo DiCaprio along for the wild ride. This one is quite a visual treat, though at times the story (or stories) is a bit jumbled.Crowe and DiCaprio have a love-hate relationship as CIO operatives and their missions come and go so fast that at one point Leo is in line at the airport to buy a ticket when he gets re-routed by soccer dad, Crowe.Based on the novel by David Ignatius, the espionage thriller is a jolt to blood pressure, though the love story does seem a bit convoluted. Still the bombings, shoot-outs and chases have a very real feel and the best scenes involve the tit-for-tat between Leo and Crowe, and between Leo and Mark Strong.As with "Syriana", I am not sure how the producers thought this subject matter might appeal to a wide audience, but it certainly has enough appeal for those fans of the genre.
Greetings again from the darkness. The first of three true classics from the "middle era" of Disney animation ... along with Beauty and the Beast (1991) and The Lion King (1994) ... this 1989 version of Hans Christian Anderson's 1837 story brought musical theatre to an animated children's fairy tale. It was also the 28th Disney film, and the final to utilize hand-painted cel animation.The Blu-Ray release to celebrate the film's 25th anniversary is truly stunning in color, brightness, clarity and sound. An explosion of sight and sound occurs during the incredible cacophony of joy and cheer better known as the Best Song Oscar winner "Under the Sea". The calypso style was a very creative choice by musical directors Alan Menken and Howard Ashman.Of course, the star of the show is Ariel, the rebellious 16 year old mermaid who dreams of walking on the beach and dancing with the Prince. Ariel's remarkable vocals ("Part of Your World") are provided by Jodi Benson, who beautifully captures the innocence and longing necessary for the character. Samuel E Wright is the smooth voiced Jamaican crab Sebastian, who not only takes lead on "Under the Sea", but also on "Kiss the Girl". The other standout is Pat Carroll as Ursula the Sea Witch. She is the perfect villain vs Ariel, and is quite a commentary on the actions of those who are power hungry.Written and directed by John Clements and Ron Musker, the film was a bit different for its time because of the depth of Ariel's character. This was a typical teenager going against her strict parent and dreaming of a better life. Ariel has a mind of her own and is willing to chase her dreams ... even if it's a boy from the proverbial "other side of the tracks" and with a Faustian negotiation. From a technical perspective, the artwork is spectacular and movements are full and fluid (sorry for the pun). This came 5 years after Ron Howard's live action Splash with Tom Hanks and Darryl Hannah. If you ever doubt the power that expert animation can possess, just compare the emotion and charm in those two.This latest Blu-Ray release has some very interesting special features. We are treated to interviews with the film's animators as well as a peek inside the Disney Animation studios, now on its third generation of animators. Much reverence is provided to The Nine Old Men ... the original group of animators hand picked by Walt Disney. The last of the nine men died in 2008, and their trainees are now mentoring the most excited new group that is kicking out some new classics like Frozen and Wreck-it Ralph. What's that word ... circle of life.
Greetings again from the darkness. OK, before you accuse me of being the world's worst speller, you should know that my title "Water Wizzdom" is a play on words ... the waterpark in the film is known as Water Wizz and Sam Rockwell plays Owen, the man-child mentor to Liam James' Duncan. Duncan is a miserable 14 year old stuck in a beach house with his mom, her obnoxious boyfriend, and his snobby daughter.Steve Carell plays Trent, the condescending and bullying boyfriend who has no redeeming qualities that we can see (other than the beach house and a nice tan). Duncan's mom is played by Toni Collette, and her character Pam is a divorced, insecure single mom trying to balance her own happiness with that of her teen-angst-filled son. Pam and Duncan are the outsiders in this beach community as we quickly learn when next door neighbor Betty (Allison Janney) shows up with drink in hand and gossip for all.The well worn movie signs are all here ... we recognize the characters and their struggles, in fact, we all know someone like each of the people that co-writers and co-directors Nat Faxon and Jim Rash present to us. We understand quickly that this is yet another coming-of-age tale with mostly clueless adults. Despite that, this one still mostly works. The writing and acting are such high quality that even though we are living in movie cliché-land, we still find ourselves caring about Duncan and Pam, laughing at Owen, and tossing tomatoes at Trent (Carell).Special recognition to Sam Rockwell. Even though Duncan is the key character, it's Rockwell's Owen who recognizes that a little faith and encouragement goes a long way. Behind the facade of rapid-fire banter and laugh-inducing one-liners, Owen is coming to grips with a life of reality and shattered dreams. While never stooping to the typical Hollywood "win one for the Gipper" speech, Owen manages to instill a bit of confidence in Duncan ... to the point where he refuses to let his mother pretend everything is OK with Trent.AnnaSophia Robb plays the cute girl-next-door who recognizes potential in Duncan, but the filmmakers never allow this to turn into some ridiculous fairy tale. Instead we get characters who are each flawed, but real and recognizable. While all the typical pieces are present, there is enough crackle to the dialogue and quality acting to help this one rise above the usual muck. It's a nice "little" alternative to the giant summer blockbusters. Nat Faxon and Jim Rash won an Oscar for co-writing The Descendants with Alexander Payne. In their directorial debut, they prove that they also have skills as filmmakers. The next one could be even better!
Greetings again from the darkness. What to make of the latest from "Hustle and Flow" writer/director Craig Brewer. Hopefully, this one was designed as camp. I see it living on as a cult favorite for midnight movies. I kept waiting for Angie Dickinson to pop up as the town bordello matron! Christina Ricci spends two hours writhing around in her underwear trying to fight off the built-in urges that don't seem to be cured by the cough syrup Samuel L. Jackson borrowed from the pharmacy lady who has a crush on him. Oh, sorry ... forgot to mention much of her writhing occurs while sporting the heavy 50 ft. chain that Mr. Jackson locked around her waist and his radiator as he sets about trying to cure her.All of this happens while Ricci's true love goes off to join the military. Except he comes back a week later because he gets frightened by loud noises. For that reason alone, one would think he would stay away from Ricci! Sorry again, forgot to mention that the sensitive military failure is played by ultra-sensitive, tough guy wannabe, Justin Timberlake ... who may be the only one who doesn't sing in the film.Watching and listening to Mr. Jackson play the blues is funny enough in itself, but when he hits the stage to a packed house who view him as the second coming of Robert Johnson ... again, I laughed! Did I mention a preacher shows up a couple of times? First to counsel Ricci about breaking the chains of her evil ways and again for couples counseling after a tearful and shaking Timberlake fails (yet again) to kill Jackson.This one is definitely not for everyone, as you might guess from the drugs, cursing, boozing, wild sex, assault, kidnapping, bondage, nearly naked people, frequent underwear moments, blues club dance moves and an overabundance of fringe religious bellowing. If you are a bit twisted, you will definitely see the humorous and campy moments and please don't take any of it too seriously. It is just a slight step up from Mr. Jackson's horrible "Snakes on a Plane" ... but the music is much better (except for the singing).
Greetings again from the darkness. Angels have been frequently cast as characters in movies such as Heaven Can Wait, It's a Wonderful Life, Angels in the Outfield and the American remake of this one ... City of Angels with Nic Cage. Director Wim Wenders (Paris, Texas 1984) has always taken a poetic approach with filmmaking, even with his documentaries such as Pina (2011). His slow, thought-provoking approach is not to everyone's liking, but he has real talent for inspiring us to question ourselves, question others, and question life.Damiel (Bruno Ganz) and Cassiel (Otto Sander) are two long-term angels who drift through WWII Berlin observing and listening to the internal thoughts and meandering of citizens ... the wishes, the hopes, the happiness, the tragic, the loneliness ... all emotions experienced in a typical day. The angels try to ease pain by offering a soothing hand on the shoulder, but they can have no direct impact and aren't always successful. Damiel finds himself drawn to a Marion (Solveig Dommartin), a circus trapeze artist whose line "Most of the time I'm too aware to be sad" could easily have been the words of the angels.There is an over-lapping subplot with Peter Falk playing himself as an actor in a German film. His character provides an instant infusion of interest and mystique, which the story later resolves. As Damiel gets closer to making the no-going-back decision to become human and bond with Marion, we see more of the fleeting moments that make up our lives. The angels see all, but can do very little. It's this existence that makes Damiel's decision understandable.Famed cinematographer Henri Alekam's floating camera and dramatic contrast of black & white (angels view) and color (human view), add to the meditative effects of the film. There is a healthy dose of philosophy, metaphysics and spiritual questioning that goes on, including the three specifics asked by the film: Why am I me and not you? Why and I here and not there? When did time begin and where does space end? If such thoughtfulness is inspiring to you, then this Wim Wenders and Peter Handke (German playwright) script should keep you drifting with your thoughts for quite some time.
Greetings again from the darkness. By now, we know what to expect from a Jason Statham movie: bone-crunching fist fights, big guns, fast cars, pretty girls, and wise cracks. Hope and expectations were a bit higher for this one since it's a John J. McLaughlin (Black Swan) screenplay of a Donald E Westlake novel, and it directed by Taylor Hackford (Oscar nominated for Ray).Statham plays Parker, a masterful thief with a straightforward code that he isn't shy about sharing. His partner/mentor is played by Nick Nolte and Parker finds himself knocking off the Ohio State Fair with a group of guys led by Michael Chiklis. Things don't go well and Parker finds himself left for dead.It starts as a heist film and transitions into a revenge flick. Of course, there are some Statham style romantic elements included. Emma Booth plays Nolte's daughter and Statham's love interest. Then, we get Jennifer Lopez as a down on her luck Realtor who lives with her mom, but somehow manages to figure out that Statham's character is not as he appears.Lopez and her hyper over-acting don't play well with the stoic Statham. She does, however, get to flash her best known ASSet. Nolte's character gets lost in the shuffle, which is a shame. More scenes with Nolte and Statham could have proved interesting. Also, there is an odd story line with Bobby Cannavale as a Sheriff who has the hots for Lopez. With the exception of a brief interlude, this promising story line just disappears. Lastly, the film's big Palm Beach heist seems extremely amateurish and pretty difficult to believe.Basically, Statham is the best thing about this Statham movie. The rest is pretty messy and disappointing ... especially considering the DNA that this one offers.
Greetings again from the darkness. Directed by John Hamburg (Along Came Polly) and starring Paul Rudd and Jason Segal, there really isn't much doubt what type of comedy we are in for. What I like about this one is the twist on the old comedy rule that the humor must come from the guy's struggle to understand women. Here it is regular guy Paul Rudd struggling in the male bonding department ... actually he has no male friends.While seemingly the perfect boyfriend and prize catch for Rashida Jones (real life daughter of Quincy Jones and Julie Lipton), Mr Rudd has no one to be his best man. The real fun begins when carefree Jason Segal shows up at Realtor Rudd's open house ... the listing is Lou Ferrigno's mansion - replete with Hulk statue in the backyard. Rudd and Segal commence to bonding at the man-cave while belting out songs from supergroup Rush.Rashida Jones is the typical girl who spews all secrets to her friends, one of which is played by Jaime Pressly, whose awfully loud marriage to jerk Jon Favreau provides some ongoing side humor. Predictably, Rudd and Segal's bonding begins to drive a wedge between Rudd and Rashida, which of course leads to the real awakening in their relationship. No matter ... the jokes are funny and situations are real and believable, which generates most of the laughter. Funny stuff ... with harsh language. Gotta give any movie a chance when it features 1970's icons like Ferrigno and Rush.
Greetings again from the darkness. Seriously, I have nothing against cute movies with a message. What I can't stand are cute movies that aren't cute. Throw in a grating voice-over and cardboard characters and I am definitely OUT.Somehow a film written and directed by the "American Splendor" team of Robert Pulcini and Shari Springer Berman, starring Scarlett Johansson, Laura Linney and Paul Giamatti comes across as shallow, poorly written and, at times, laughably unwatchable.The stereotypes are flowing big time with rich, snobby, out of touch, self-absorbed "upper east siders" on display at every turn. Throw in the "Harvard Hottie" (played by the human torch, Chris Evans) who has the dead mom, boarding school childhood misery going for him, a few misplaced "Mary Poppins" tributes, and the brilliant but poor Anthropology major (Scarlett) who just wants to find herself working as a nanny, and you have the makings of a cheap Oxygen channel comdram. All parties should be embarrassed.The only semi-bright spots are the icy rich mama played by the talented Linney ... when she flashes that smile or the stare, it does have some impact; and the power broker rich daddy played by the always excellent Giammatti - this time with a stuffy accent! Still the moments of hope are weak and all too infrequent.Scarlett and Evans are quite the eye candy for the twenty something crowd, but no one involved could possibly feel good about the final product here. Such a waste.
Greetings again from the darkness. When a filmmaker takes on WWII, he better have something new to say or a new way to show it. Director David Ayer (highly recommend his End of Watch, 2012) literally takes us inside a Sherman tank with its crew of 5 men, including their leader played by Brad Pitt.Having the tank as a centerpiece brings a level of claustrophobia to the treacherous German war front. The battle scenes are excruciatingly tense, and actually beautifully filmed. This may seem an odd description for a war movie, but bouncing from inside the tank to the German countryside is done with such style that it provides contrast to the brutality and violence of war.Pitt's crew is made up of Shia LaBeouf, Michael Pena and Jon Bernthal (especially good). They are forced to take on a rookie with no tank training ... but he can type 60 words per minute. Logan Lerman plays the rookie and he brings the natural sensitivity we've come to expect from his roles in The Perks of Being a Wallflower, and Noah. We buy off on the difficult transition since the others have fought campaigns together in Africa, Belgium and France.What works here are the battle sequences. What doesn't really work are the numerous moments of personal drama injected to help us understand how war can change a man ... no matter how hard he tries to hold on to his humanity. The sequence with the two German women, a piano and fried eggs seems especially drawn out and unbelievable. We understand the point pretty quickly, but the extended sequence becomes quite awkward.The most interesting question the movie asks is whether a soldier can be so disgusted and sick of war, yet somehow addicted to the action. Mr. Ayers previously wrote U-571 (2000), so he is clearly interested in the mentality of soldiers in a claustrophobic setting. More of this approach would have been welcome here.
Greetings again from the darkness. Kristen Wiig is everywhere these days. If you don't know the name, you certainly know her face. She is credited with 26 projects since 2009 - and that doesn't even count her weekly work on Saturday Night Live. She is the new Tina Faye ... even though the old Tina Faye is still going very strong.While I have little doubt that the success of The Hangover was a driving force behind the creation of this film, Ms. Wiig's writing and acting talent elevate this mixture of chick-flick and comedy into one of the finest female film comedies in quite awhile. That's probably not strong enough praise since that category is a bit sparse, but as a guy who gets really tired of the formulaic chick-flick rom-coms and sappy dramas, I found the film to be quite refreshing.Sure, there are many similarities between this and The Hangover, but the key difference is that the element of female friendship is never far away from the often raunchy comedy we are witnessing. Women so value their BFF's and Ms. Wiig and her writing partner Annie Mumolo (seen as a nervous plane passenger) never lose sight of this.Also key to any group of female activity is the competitive nature and envious mutterings. They try so hard to appear happy for their friends, when often they are blinded by the current funk in which they find their own life. And look out when a beautiful, rich "new" friend enters the picture. The real fireworks begin ... even in the battle for the last word on the mic at the engagement party! I am not going to give away any of the punchlines or set-ups, but I will highlight the cast. Maya Rudolph is Lillian, the bride to be and lifelong friend of Annie (Wiig); Ellie Kemper (The Office) is Becca, the goody-two shoes newlywed; Wendi McLendon-Covey (Reno 911) is Rita, the bitter, frustrated long-time mother and wife looking for inspiration; Melissa McCarthy (Mike & Molly, Gilmore Girls) is Megan, the slapstick, gross-out comedy relief; Rose Byrne is Helen, the aforementioned seemingly perfect "new" friend; Chris O'Dowd (Blind Swordsman in Dinner for Schmucks) is Officer Rhodes, the nice guy who has a crush on Annie; Jon Hamm (Mad Men) as Annie's Porsche driving bootie call; and Jill Clayburgh (her final film role) as Annie's mom.Here is hoping Ms. Wiig continues to push the boundaries of creative comedy for women. I for one look forward to seeing women on screen as more than just love interests and femme fatales.
Greetings again from the darkness. One of the advantages to not being dependent upon movie reviews for food and shelter is that there is no concern for a superstar holding a grudge against me and my opinions. Make no mistake, director Clint Eastwood is a Hollywood powerhouse and also one of the most consistently fine filmmakers working today. Still, no one bats a thousand ... this is a miss, with barely a swing.The film follows three basic stories. The first revolves around George Lonegan (Matt Damon), who seemingly has true psychic abilities. The problem is that George does not wish to have anything to do with his "powers". The second involves twin brother, Marcus and Jason, who live with their druggie mom. Things change quickly when Jason is hit and killed by a truck and Marcus is taken away while his mom rehabs. The third story has Marie LeLay (Cecile De France) as an investigative reporter who gets caught in a tsunami while vacationing and has a "near death experience".I will not go into detail for any of the three stories other than to say Jay Mohr plays Damon's money-grubbing brother who wants to take his talent to the big time; the sadness of the surviving twin is tough to take at times as he searches for a connection to his dead brother; and lastly, Marie's near-death brings her closer to life than she ever was before.What is most surprising, given the pedigree of Eastwood and writer Peter Morgan (The Queen, Last King of Scotland) is that this movie and each of these stories are, for lack of a better word, quite boring. We really get little insight into any of the characters - other than the overall sadness each shows regularly. The sub-story with the most interest involves a brief encounter with a secret research clinic sporting a Nobel Prize winner. The clinic evidently has much research and data on this topic.As you have already guessed, these three stories intersect near the film's end. This is a ploy that is all too common in Hollywood these days. I won't give away how it all comes together, but it bordered on eye-rolling. The film does not depend upon the viewer's beliefs or understanding, though I personally believe some people do have a heightened sense of awareness and connection. That's not really what it's about. It's more about sadness, loneliness and the need for personal connection while alive.As usual, Mr. Eastwood has put together a terrific score. And I will gladly admit that the first 7-10 minutes of the film, including the tsunami were captivating ... and I loved the connection with Charles Dickens. That's the best I can offer for the film, and here's hoping Eastwood's biopic on J Edgar Hoover brings significantly more interest and entertainment value.
Greetings again from the darkness. It's always cool when an actor gets to pursue their first "all in" creative project. Two examples are Joseph Gordon-Levitt with Don Jon and the late Adrienne Shelly with Waitress. This time it's Lake Bell who is writer, director and leading lady in a story about (at least partially) the empowerment of women in a male dominated field.This is a very pleasant comedy with dramatic overtones. Ms Bell plays Carol, who is a voice/dialect coach with the dream of breaking into the good ol' boys club of Voice Over acting. The title of the film was made famous the late great Don LaFontaine, who voiced hundreds of movie trailers that we all watched and listened to. The film begins with a little tribute to LaFontaine and sets the stage as the torch is passed to Sam (Fred Melamed, A Serious Man), who also happens to be Carol's father, and cocky youngster Gustav (Ken Marino), who happens to have a different connection to Carol.The father-daughter issues abound as Sam of course believes Voice Over work should be limited to the deep, powerful voices of men. Carol also gets tossed into the relationship drama of her dad and his much younger girlfriend, the marital struggles of her sister (Michaela Watkins) and brother in law (Rob Corddry), and the workplace affections of her co-worker (Demetri Martin-Lewis). That's a lot of sub-plots and it causes a loss of focus on Carol's persistence to find her own voice, so to speak.The quirkiness of Bell's character also distracts a bit, but mostly she is charming and likable, and we really pull for her to succeed. As a director, she does a nice job of helping us get to know the multitude of characters, and though there is much to garner interest, it's just overload for the viewer. When the story focuses on Bell and her dad's ignorance and competitiveness, the movie is at its best. This is definitely one to check out, and here's hoping for more from Ms. Bell
Greetings again from the darkness. Terrific screen adaptation of Stan Lee's comic creation brings Iron Man to life! Directed by Jon Favreau ("Swingers" and Tony Stark's chauffeur) the film blends extraordinary special effects and CGI with some wonderful acting and explosive action.I have long been an admirer of the talented Robert Downey, Jr ("Chaplin" and "Kiss Kiss Bang Bang") and only wish he could keep it together in real life so he could work more often. Favreau really allows Downey's knack for deadpan wise-cracking to play a huge role in defining Tony Stark ... the brilliant, billionaire, playboy, inventor and business tycoon who becomes Iron Man.Every good comic book hero requires a terrific nemesis and Jeff Bridges is wonderful as a shaved-headed Obadiah Stane (and Iron Monger). Bridges and Downey are both top level actors and definitely bring a touch of class to the film (similar to Christian Bale as Batman). The supporting cast is rounded out by Gwyneth Paltrow (rarely seen on screen these days), Terrence Howard and Paul Bettany (the voice of Jarvis - Tony Stark's home based A.I. system). Creator Stan Lee also has a brief cameo as the guy Stark mistakes for Hugh Hefner (actually a pretty funny moment).The only thing keeping this one from greatness is there were just no surprises or twists in the story. We spot the bad guy early and the story travels a pretty familiar arc. Still ... this one is loads of fun and a visual smörgåsbord. Tip: stay til the end of the credits.
Greetings again from the darkness. This time it's the darkness of Chauvet Cave in southern France which was discovered by accident in 1994 by three spelunkers, including the cave's namesake. Now discovering a "new" cave must be thrilling. But what about one that houses the earliest human cave drawings ever found? The French government quickly recognized the importance of this find and sealed off the cave to all but a few scientists who spent years carefully mapping every square inch of the cave. Protecting the air and the type of intrusion will, hopefully, protect the 400 or so wall drawings. These drawings are beautiful and cause the imagination to run wild. We see animals similarto, yet different than those we know today. Why is there a difference? Well these drawings have been dated to 32,000 years ago! Thousands of years prior to any other human drawings previously discovered.Director Werner Herzog and his crew are given limited access and severely limited on the type of equipment they can use. In fact, these limitations work to provide an ethereal look and feel ... it's as if the flickering torches of the original artists are guiding us.Mr. Herzog is well-known for his unique voice and approach to filmmaking. If you have seen his Fitzcarraldo or his documentary "Grizzly Man", you understand what I mean. Here, he spends much time narrating what could have been, speculating on the inspiration and wondering why so little proof of humans exist here. We see a footprint and some palm prints, but really the drawings are the only sign of human intrusion. Instead fossil remains of cave bears and other wildlife is present. Then again, it has been at least 20,000 since the cave was sealed by a natural rock-slide.I am sure this will show up on the History Channel and an argument could be made that TV would have been the proper display for this piece. I will say that the big screen does allow for greater appreciation of the artwork, even if some of the interviews come across as filler. As for the epilogue featuring a French nuclear reactor and and the introduction of warm waters perfect for breeding mutant albino alligators that "may someday reach Clauvet Cave", I say ... oh, Werner.
Greetings again from the darkness. In this day of 3 minute trailers that give away the best gags, if one can walk out of a comedy having laughed a few times, it must be deemed a success. Such is the case with this sequel to 21 Jump Street (2012), which was borne from the 1980's TV show of the same name.A couple of years ago, officers Schmidt (Jonah Hill) and Jenko (Channing Tatum) went undercover at a high school to bring down drug dealers. This time, they head to a local college for the same purpose. If that sounds like a re-tread, at least the film acknowledges such. In a scene with Nick Offerman, a few minutes of self-parody are devoted to the mis-givings of re-do's ... even with double the budget! Co-directors (back from the first) make this film the butt of its own joke, and for the most part, that approach works.The best buddy comedies work because of two things: the script and the rapport of the leads. The pairing of Jonah and Tatum works very well, even when we get the predictable split into liberal arts and sports (take a stab which actor gets which assignment). There are a couple of actresses who play vital supporting roles - Amber Stevens as Schmidt's love interest, and Jillian Bell in an offbeat and quite funny take as the nemesis. Oddly enough, Jenko's relationship is a bro-mance on the football team with the QB played by Wyatt Russell (Kurt and Goldie's son). One of the poor decisions was to quadruple the screen time for Ice Cube ... his antics are funny in limited doses. Very limited.There are some terrific "old man" jokes, as well as references to Maya Angelou and Tracy Morgan ... both who have been in the news for less-than-uplifting reasons lately. Most will find the best sequence to be after the movie ends and before the credits begin. The mock sequels (23 Jump Street, 24 ...) appear in rapid fire mode with a couple of cameos and some creative "schools". While the movie wobbles between spot on and over-the-top, it delivers what we expect ... a funny enough sequel to a funny enough tribute movie.
Greetings again from the darkness. I was so looking forward to this. A nice cast, an intriguing premise and a director with something to prove. All the ingredients, but in the end we have no cake.Fascinating facts and creepy images and coincidences involving the number 23 are just skimmed over. Instead we are given what feels like 80% set-up and 20% explanation. What's missing? The guts of the story, that's what! The set-up drags on so long it actually becomes boring. There is so little suspense and so few thrills and so little drama, I am not even sure what to label the film ... other than disappointing.I usually enjoy Jim Carrey in his serious roles, you know ... "The Truman Show" and "The Majestic". However, in this film he doesn't even seem like a real guy. Plus I couldn't help but think of "Ace Ventura" when we first realize he works for animal control. This film is just too dark and bland to allow his charisma to come through. Virginia Madsen is stuck in another thankless role. Can't someone please cast this charming, talented lady in a real movie? Support work by Danny Huston, Ed Lauter, Rhona Mitra (ex-"Boston Legal) and don't miss Bob Zmuda in a brief role. Zmuda is Andy Kaufman's former sidekick.Really don't have much good to say about the execution of this one. Had high hopes and just feel let down. Not unusual for a Joel Schumacher film.
Greetings again from the darkness. This is a perfect example of why it's acceptable for writing standards to be lowered for horror films. This isn't science fiction or history. We are in the theatre for one simple reason ... we want to be frightened (to jump in our seats). Two years after the first Insidious, director and co-writer James Wan, screenwriter Leigh Whannell and producer Oren Peli, re-team for this sequel. It's also just a few months after Mr. Wan's very successful and well-made The Conjuring.I enjoyed the first one because there was a nice story that borrowed a bit from Poltergeist and some other horror classics. In a rare treat, Wan and Whannel actually tie in the sequel to the story from the first. Sure, some of it is a stretch with all of the parallel dimensions and multiple entities, but for the most part, it works and provides some nice thrills and chills.An especially nice surprise is the creative return of Lin Shaye as Elise, who stole all her scenes in the first entry. While the voice over of her "younger" scenes was distracting, her screen presence helps hold the final act together. Patrick Wilson, Rose Byrne, Ty Simpkins and Barbara Hershey are back as the family Lambert ... and this time we get more backstory on why the family seems unable to escape the demons.Wan, Whannell and Peli have done a very nice job of rejuvenating the horror genre, while still including the traditional fun of active closets, abandoned hospitals, creaky doors and musty basements. A certain amount of suspension of disbelief is required, but if you are looking for some scary fun, you could do much worse than the two Insidious films.
Greetings again from the darkness. OK, I will admit that my humor runs more to Guy Ritchie than Judd Apatow, and that my rating of this movie is purely on my tastes rather than the barometer of mass appeal. Writer/director Ritchie has escaped the clutches of Madonna and is now free to display his movie-making talents again."Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels" and "Snatch" were FUN, FRENZIED and FASCINATING. This film is a bit more up to date, certainly easier to follow, but every bit as much fun as those two classics. When Ritchie is in his element, we are bombarded with numerous unique characters all crossing multiple story lines at a pace that not only prevents potty breaks, but often penalizes blinking.The list of characters here include Gerard Butler as One-Two, a macho second rate gangster who wants more; Tom Hardy and Idris Elba as his partners in crime; Toby Kebbell as junked-out rocker Johnny Quid, who appears to be a take-off on Pete Doherty; Thandie Newton as the most bizarre accountant ever encountered; Karel Roden and Tom Wilkinson as battling gangsters, proudly Russian and American; and Mark Strong (Body of Lies) who teaches the backhand slap with panache.On a down note, I did not include Ludicrous and Jeremy Piven, who play a couple of band managers and club owners, because their roles seemed quite contrived ... as if written in at the last minute to include buds of Ritchie. Still, this is a minor point and has no real impact on the enjoyment of the film.Viewing the film, one has to believe that it is an actor's dream. There seems to be no limit which they can't strive for in any given scene. Wilkinson chews up his lines as if he has just bitten into a rotten grapefruit. Same with Mark Strong and Tony Kebbell who are both just terrific.Two of the funniest scenes involve Gerard Butler and Thandie Newton sharing the most unusual dance since Adam West and Julie Newmar in the Batman TV series; and again Butler and Newton in a patented Ritchie lovemaking session replete with quick cuts. Butler also offers up a dance scene with Handsome Bob ... but that's a whole other story line.Undoubtedly the film will not appeal to mass audiences, but I do believe there are many people who enjoy the experience if they would just give it a shot. Humor, action, wild characters and multiple story lines combined with a rocking soundtrack make this one worth a shot.
Greetings again from the darkness. Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson has carved out a terrific career alternating between major action movies (Fast Five) and comedy flicks (The Other Guys) ... both which take advantage of his real life Hulk-like physique and presence. Apparently two film genres is not enough. This time out he attempts to transition to a serious dramatic role as the Construction Company owner-divorced/remarried-suburban father who will do anything for his quasi-estranged teenage son. This would have been a Harrison Ford role back in the 1990's and probably better suited to Matt Damon today.Jason (Rafi Gavron) makes a dumb mistake by accepting delivery of a shoebox full of Ecstacy from his best friend. Next thing you know, Jason has fallen victim to the exceptionally strict minimum sentence federal drug laws for first time offenders. Enter Jason's earnest, hard-working dad who pushes the politically ambitious federal prosecutor (Susan Sarandon) to allow him to infiltrate the drug world in an effort to reduce his son's sentence.John (The Rock) has a nice suburban home, with a nice second wife (Nadine Velazquez from Flight), a nice young daughter, and a stressed-out ex-wife (Melina Kanakardes from CSI:NY) whom he kinda blames for Jason's mess. John has loads of family drama plus financial issues at work as he is trying to expand his business. Now he has to figure out how to get into the dirty drug distribution world. His first attempt leaves him face down in the dirt after getting his ass kicked - not a sight we are accustomed to with this giant of a man. Finally, he gets help from one of his ex-con employees (Jon Bernthal) who is trying to stay clean, but really needs the money John is offering.A meeting with scary Michael Kenneth Williams (Chalky from Boardwalk Empire) leads to a meeting with a Mexican drug lord known as El Topo (Benjamin Bratt). John's access to 18-wheelers is just what this drug cartel needed. For some reason, these brilliant drug dealers would rather trust some unknown trucker dude than spend part of their $83 million on buying their own rig. All logic aside, John works closely with a DEA Agent played by Barry Pepper, who is sporting the worst facial hair this side of Gandolf.The director and co-writer is Ric Roman Waugh, who made his name as a super Hollywood stunt performer (and also directed Felon). His co-writer is Justin Haythe also wrote Revolutionary Road and the upcoming The Lone Ranger. The story is based on a true to life PBS: Frontline about a family who went through a similar ordeal. In spite of the overuse of the "shaky cam" there is some confusion on whether this is a political statement concerning the stringent drug laws, the abuse of power by political officials, or an insight into the moral dilemmas faced by "normal" types in this day and age. The script seems to exploit the issues in the same manner those with power exploit the first time offenders (often high school and college age kids).The trailer is a bit misleading as the film only features two real action sequences and both are sampled in the trailer. This is more of a family drama with some moral dilemmas sprinkled in. Pepper and Bernthal are especially effective in their roles, while The Rock is just too distracting to play the typical suburban dad. He is a giant and you can't ignore that he still looks like a world class wrestler and not a guy you would see at a PTA meeting. Still, if you don't think too much, this one is entertaining enough for a February release.
Greetings again from the darkness. The Bourne series has often been viewed as the American version of James Bond ... more serious and with more action. Doug Liman directed the first, which was taken directly from the Robert Ludlum novel. Paul Greengrass then assumed control over the next two and added hyper-kinetic speed to the action sequences and focused on the conspiracy theories, with a fascinating hero looking to take down a corrupt system. Involved in all three as a writer, Tony Gilroy takes over as director in this fourth entry. Unfortunately, the Bourne series is not similar to Bond, in that the directors and lead actors are not so easily replaced.With Matt Damon (Jason Bourne) present only on computer screens, Jeremy Renner takes over the lead as the next super-spy-weapon. When Pam Landy (Joan Allen) blows the lid off Treadstone in a Congressional hearing, the shady back office meetings lead to the decision to shut down the program. We all understand what that means ... destroy the assets and lose the records. This decision is made by Edward Norton and Stacy Keach, both new to the series.The decision leads to a vicious scene featuring the always dependable character actor Zeljko Ivanek who almost completes his assignment, but misses out on Rachel Weisz (playing Dr Marta Shearing). Dr. Shearing is involved in the manufacturing of the "meds" that keep our super-spies and super strength and super intellect. Yes folks, our superheroes are roided-up! You have to hand it to Dr. Shearing - for a lab rat, she has a remarkable ability to stay alive despite being the target of many highly trained assassins. Of course, she does have a bit of help from Aaron Cross (Renner).Here is the real issue with the film. Instead of Bourne trying to bring down the corrupt system, this is really two hours of survival mode for Aaron Cross. It reminded me of the Monty Python bit as they face opposition on their castle storm "Run Away!, Run Away!". Most of the first half of the film is spent with him in search of meds, like any common drug addict, and the second half is spent on a motorcycle chase that goes on forever.As an action film, this one works just fine. The limited fighting and expanded chase scenes are well filmed and intense, it's just that as a viewer, it really isn't as much fun to cheer for someone who is running away as it is for someone (Bourne) looking to bring down a corrupt system. In addition to those I've mentioned, we get brief appearances from series' regulars Albert Finney, David Strathairn, Scott Glenn, Joan Allen, and Paddy Considine.The hope is that this is just a placeholder in the series. It's been five years since The Bourne Ultimatum, and hopefully, if the series continues, we will get Paul Greengrass back in the director's seat and Matt Damon teaming up with Jeremy Renner to wreak havoc on the true enemies of the state. Otherwise, the American Bond ends up as nothing more than an action film with no real purpose.
Greetings again from the darkness. As I sat in a theatre with approximately 80 others, it took me awhile to realize that the only audible laughs were coming from a couple of teenagers near the back. Until that point, I had just assumed that my grumpy old man syndrome had reared its head as I managed only a couple of chuckles.The best comparison I have for this "comedy" from director Don Scardino (30 Rock) are the Will Ferrell sports-themed spoofs "Blades of Glory" and "Semi-Pro". If you found those to be hilarious, then this one might provide you some laughs. Rather than picking on a sport, the movie focuses on the world of Las Vegas magic shows ... big-time stage productions (David Copperfield, Siegfried & Roy) vs. streetwise illusionists (Criss Angel, David Blaine).Childhood friends Albert and Anton evolved into Vegas superstars Burt Wonderstone (Steve Carrell) and Anton Marvelton (Steve Buscemi). The influence of Siegfried and Roy are obvious, right down to the costumes and hair. After 10 years of the exact same act, Wonderstone is a pompous womanizer who cares little for the magic act, and Anton is the epitome of the invisible sideman. Casino owner Doug Munny (James Gandolfini) threatens to end the act if the duo doesn't come up with something new to compete against the daring and popular street illusionist Steve Gray (Jim Carrey).Gray's Brain-rape act is supposed to compare to Criss Angel's Mind-freak. Instead, Gray comes across more like cheap reality TV with masochistic actions. Of course, Burt and Anton collapse under the pressure and their friendship and act come to an end. Burt spirals out of control and ends up performing in a nursing home ... a fortuitous turn that introduces him to his childhood idol (Alan Arkin).All you really need to know is that this comedy offers few laughs and only shows a pulse when Arkin and Carrey are on screen. Carrell seems miscast as a pompous womanizer, so neither trait plays particularly well. Additionally, his bounce back is not believable since his rock bottom lasts about 30 seconds. Buscemi's only real gag is his poke at celebrity humanitarian crusades. Otherwise, he and Olivia Wilde are bystanders with little to do, which is a shame. Really would have liked to see Carrey's character with a better, more believable act so that the rivalry might have proved more interesting.There is an underlying message of friendship and maintaining a passion, but this is no message movie. Heck, it's barely even a comedy ... unless you are one of those teenagers in the back row.
Greetings again from the darkness. Most married couples can probably relate to the grind of a life absorbed with work and parenting. Sometimes the fantasy turns into having a quiet moment of solitude. Heck, even "date night" can devolve into just another responsibility tacked on at the end of a long week. This is the premise for director Shawn Levy's film. The best part? It doesn't matter at all.The reason this film works is not the plot or script, but rather the talents of the two funniest people in showbiz today: Steve Carell and Tina Fey. The two seem to have an exceptional comedic connection that brings out a timing that reminds of the best comedy teams of all time.Sometimes what makes for the funniest comedy is putting "normal" people into exceptional situations and let them react. Here, Carell and Fey are just a typical suburban couple trying to re-ignite the luster of an all too comfortable marriage. The motivation comes when their friends (Mark Ruffalo and Kristen Wiig) announce they are splitting. This starts Carell and Fey off on a series of skits that would make Seinfeld proud.The nightmare begins when the couple "steals" a reservation in a hot new restaurant and assume the identity of, what turns out to be a couple of low level thieves. The multitude of skits that follow include supporting work from dirty cops (Common and Jimmi Simpson), the real reservation holders (funny James Franco and Mila Kunis), a mob boss (Ray Liotta), a corrupt city official (William Fichtner) and a "security expert" in the eternally shirtless Mark Wahlberg.The approach of the film reminds me of "After Hours", "Adventures in Babysitting" and "The Out of Towners". Some of the best comedy occurs when the main players aren't tossing out incessant one-liners. Think back to Cary Grant's screwball comedies. He was not a bumbling idiot or a stand-up comedian walking through life. His characters were reactionary to the odd-ball situations in which he was placed. That is the approach of Carell and Fey, and I hope they pursue future projects together.
Greetings again from the darkness. The Sundance Film Festival got it right when it awarded this film its grand jury award. This is wonderful independent filmmaking - the kind that draws in our own emotions and makes us feel what the characters feel. If you enjoy fluffy Hollywodd rom-coms, you may not have what it takes to watch this raw "first" love story. I felt tightness in my chest and an aching in my bones ... and I am a grumpy old man! I have been on the bandwagon for Elizabeth Olsen's breakout performance in Martha Marcy May Marlene. Now, I will say that Felicity Jones deserves the same accolades. It's her first US film, but she is flat out spectacular in conveying deep emotional swings. I will see this one again just to watch her every blink and nod. She comes across as a fantastical blend of the Mara sisters - some of Kate's radiance mixed with Rooney's deep soul.Writer/director Drake Doremus clearly has a bond to this story as the long term relationship and themes of separation, patience and true love are played with a cutting edge reality that we rarely see on screen. Anna (Jones) falls for classmate Jacob (Anton Yelchin) and we experience the clumsiness and hopeful flirtations of their early dates. The kicker is that Anna's student visa expires at the end of the semester and she makes the foolish decision to stay in bed with Jacob for the summer. This keeps her from re-entering the US when she tries to return to him.To really connect with this film, you need to put yourself back in the first love moment or moreso, at a time when you experienced a long distance relationship. That excruciating feeling that every moment apart would never end. What had me scratching my head a bit was the fact that Jacob never packed up and headed to London to be with Anna for good. He is a furniture designer who works in a loft in Santa Monica. Seems like the perfect business to run from anywhere ... say London with your soul mate! Made me believe that possibly Jacob wasn't as gaga as Anna.Both of them take on close companions. Jacob's is played wonderfully by Jennifer Lawrence (Winters Bone). She is very sweet and clearly loves Jacob, which raised another question for me. What to think of those who can fall deeply for one who is not "all in" for them? Anna moves in with Charlie Bewley who also misreads the buy-in and makes the biggest mistake a guy can make ... don't ask the question if you don't know the answer.There are some terrific scenes with Anna's parents played by Oliver Muirhead and Alex Kingston, both whom you will recognize. Also, Anna's publisher is played by Finola Hughes and there are a couple of odd scenes between the two so that we understand just how talented Anna is as a writer. The ending is absolutely perfect and the two future mega stars (Jones and Yelchin) capture the moment with precision and heartfelt doubt and wonderment. It's not the clean ending we Americans have come to expect, but it's one that loudly announces the arrival of Felicity Jones, Anton Yelchin and director Drake Doremus.I was lucky enough to attend the opening night in Dallas, and Mr. Doremus was in attendance for a Q&A. Fully expecting a sulking, beret-wearing film school reject, I was shocked when Doremus proved to be charming, energetic, thoughtful and downright appreciative of comments from the audience. He explained that much of the dialogue was improvised between the actors, and that the film was made for $250,000. If you are unfamiliar with filmmaking, $250,000 is roughly what Tom Cruise gets for a breakfast budget on his films. These points just made me more of a fan of the director and the film.
Greetings again from the darkness. If I were only allowed four words ... Interesting story, horribly filmed. The story of the terrorists and the senseless violence immediately instilled a desire for revenge in me. Although I am still not sure if the writer and director had a political agenda, my guess is they were trying to show that terrorists are not supported by the people or the government of Saudi Arabia.A pretty solid cast led by Jamie Foxx and Chris Cooper, with Jason Bateman around for some comic relief. Jennifer Garner looks the part, but is pretty miscast as the weepy, yet tough gal dropped into a world that doesn't exactly respect the features of Ben's babe. In support are Richard Jenkins, Jeremy Piven, Kyle Chandler, Frances Fisher and the always interesting Danny Huston. In the film's best turn, Ashraf Barham plays the Saudi good cop who buddies up with Foxx. Had the feeling that most of the others just floated through their roles knowing full well that the big explosions and massive fireworks were the real star.Director Peter Berg ("Friday Night Lights") goes way overboard with the hand-held cameras and quick edits to simulate hyper-action. Also, there were so many close-ups, eye balls often took up half the screen. Too bad, Mr. Berg didn't realize the special effects and strutting of Mr. Foxx could have carried the film. Not at the level of "Syriana" but worth watching.
Greetings again from the darkness. It is absolutely understandable if you have reached your limit for dissecting and analyzing the 2008 financial crisis. However, if you can't get enough, or are still trying to find someone to blame for looting half your retirement plan, this film offers a different perspective and one that proves more personal.Hopefully you saw "Inside Job", a fine documentary that provided an overview of the collapse. HBO's "Too Big To Fail" gave us a glimpse inside the Fed's decision making process during the crisis. This movie narrows the focus down to a singular investment bank. Writer/Director JC Chandor serves up a dramatized story that begins with massive layoffs. We see the hatchet crew arriving replete with security escorts, as high paid executives are led out to the sidewalk. Stanley Tucci plays a middle manager in the Risk-Analysis department. As he is headed to the curb, he hands a flash drive to one of his young analysts (Zachary Quinto) and tells him to finish it and "be careful".Flash forward a few hours and the surviving staff heads out for celebratory drinks while Quinto's character starts churning away on Tucci's formula. Once he realizes that the risk formulas on MBS (mortgage backed securities) have threatened the stability of the firm, he places an emergency call. It is quite interesting to see how this emergency escalates as we are introduced, one rung at a time, to the hierarchy within the firm ... Paul Bettany, Kevin Spacey, Demi Moore, Simon Baker. This culminates in a late night conference room meeting when the CEO (Jeremy Irons) arrives by helicopter.There are so many facets to this story. We see how some are in the game for money. Penn Badgley says it's all he ever wanted to do, but his obsessive behavior over the income of each manager shows us why. Paul Bettany is a middle manager who realizes the "killers" such as Simon Baker have passed him by. Demi Moore plays the type who doesn't mind finding a fall guy, as long as it's not her. Kevin Spacey is 30+ year career man who has survived many crisis by being loyal to the firm, while also doing right by the client. Jeremy Irons is the charming, powerful CEO who laughs about being as smart as a Golden Retriever, but laser-focused on keeping the firm viable.What you can't help but notice is the number of managers who point out that they don't understand the charts and graphs and numbers, and just need someone to explain it to them in "plain English". We also see self-preservation at its finest/worst and the struggle that some of the characters have in deciding what is the "right thing to do". It is not surprising, yet frightening still, to see that the red flags were flying before anyone acknowledged their presence.When the CEO says the three ways to win are to: "be first, be smartest or cheat", we realize huge decisions are made only in the best interest of the firm ... not the economy, and certainly not an individual investor. Although this investment firm remains nameless through the film, I did find it interesting that Irons' character name is John Tuld. John Tuld ... Dick Fuld ... Just sayin'
Greetings again from the darkness. Difficult to decide if it's more shocking that this film is almost 50 years old, or that it ever got released in the first place. No other black comedy satire on such a sensitive political issue has ever had its theatrical release right smack dab in the middle of the ongoing issue. The cold war between Russia and the US was in high gear and the Cuban Missile crisis had just occurred. In fact, President Kennedy's assassination caused the film's opening to be delayed.Stanley Kubrick only directed eleven feature length films, and ten of them can be considered classics (A Clockwork Orange, 2001: A Space Odyssey, The Shining, to name a few). Dr. Strangelove is regarded as one of the greatest comedies of all-time, though it's difficult to imagine anyone under 30 really "getting" much of the humor - unless they happen to be a history buff. The movie could come across as one big "inside joke" to those unfamiliar with the times.Loosely based on Peter George's "Red Alert" novel, Kubrick decided to take the source material and turn it into satire. He brought in Terry Southern (The Magic Christian) to help with the script, and then he turned the incomparable Peter Sellers loose in 3 roles (originally 4, but he broke his leg and gave up the Commander King Kong role). Stories abound with Sellers causing multiple takes and significant editing due to his ad-libbing cracking up other cast members (and even Kubrick).The structure of the film involved three separate, yet intertwined sequences. We see Burpelson Air Force Base Commander General Jack D Ripper (Sterling Hayden) issuing the order to Group Captain Mandrake (Sellers) to lock down the base. It turns out, Ripper has gone a bit loony and somehow issued the strike first command against Russia. Mandrake spends much of this segment trying to calmly obtain the Recall Codes from Ripper. We also meet the crew of one of the multiple B-52 bombers in route to Russia. Led by Commander "King" Kong (Slim Pickins), they are on the way to deliver two nuclear bombs. One of his crew is played by James Earl Jones in his screen debut. Lastly we go inside the War Room where President Merkin Muffley (Sellers) is meeting with his Joint Chiefs of Staff and advisors. A key player here is General Buck Turgidson (George C Scott) in full kill and be killed mode.There are so many interesting bits to discuss, but let's limit to just a few. Watch the camera angles that Kubrick uses to film Hayden. He is made to look both powerful and nuts. Hayden (so great in Kubrick's The Killing) has the voice and tough guy stance to make us believe he could start a war due to a Russian plot to pollute the "precious body fluids" of Americans. Sellers plays two roles in the War Room, but his straight man performance as the President allows George C Scott to really shine in one of his few comedic turns as an actor. Scott's performance is somehow over the top AND right on the button (so to speak). When watching Slim Pickins in the iconic final image, keep in mind that he was a real life rodeo cowboy prior to breaking into acting.Obviously the character names are outlandish (Keenan Wynn plays Col. Bat Guano), but it should be noted that the character of the President was based on real life politician and Presidential candidate Adlai Stevenson. The General Turgidson character is based on real life General Curtis LeMay who was infamous for his kill 'em first attitude. Also, General Ripper was based on General Thomas S Power, who was LeMay's protégé and ultimate replacement as Joint Chief of the Air Force. It should also be noted that Tracy Reed is the only female character who appears ... and yes, that is her in the Playboy magazine that Commander Kong is perusing.There are so many classic lines and sight gags in the film that it's challenging to keep up on the first viewing. Also, it's been a few years since a pay phone and coke machine played such vital roles. When Kubrick killed the original pie fight ending, he added more frightening images and the poignant closing song - "We'll Meet Again" by Vera Lynn. The last note is that director Sidney Lumet did a film version of this same basic story told in a straight-forward and thrilling manner. His "Fail-Safe" was released less than a year after Dr. Strangelove.
Greetings again from the darkness. The Sandra Bullock factor kept me away from this for the the first month. I just couldn't bring myself to watch her same old lame act one more time - especially since she has already been in about 12 movies this year. Wow, what a pleasant surprise this was.Based on the amazing story of Michael Oher, Bullock delivers her best work in years, maybe ever. On top of that, Quinton Aaron is terrific as Mr. Oher. The bond is uplifting and believable. Yes, it has some fluff and mass appeal formula, but it is certainly watchable and quite enjoyable.We see very little of Oher's roots and the high school football coach is miscast and tough to watch, but those are the only minor quibbles I have with an otherwise fine movie that will (and already has) appealed to a wide audience. I often worry about my film snobbishness, but I bought off on this one and thanks go to director John Lee Hancock (The Alamo) for teetering, but not falling into full blown chick flick.
Greetings again from the darkness. Comfort food gets its name from the level of familiarity and satisfaction it brings us. It's the opposite of "Innovation. Innovation. Innovation" that plays a role in this story as we follow the culinary advancement of the young chef Hassan. Director Lasse Hallstrom long ago mastered the art of tapping into the emotional heart strings of viewers (Salmon Fishing in the Yemen, An Unfinished Life, Chocolat), so his films can easily be viewed as the movie version of comfort food ... they deliver what's promised with no unwanted surprises.From the novel by Richard C Morais, the screenplay by Steven Knight (Locke) serves up exactly what we expect and satisfies our taste for slick and sweet entertainment with characters who are both likable and learn their life lessons quickly. Even the backstory of tragedy that brings Kadan family from India is told in a near painless (and improbable) flashback manner as the family goes through customs.While their travels and heartbreak could have been the story, we instead are front row for the cultural battlefield of snooty French restaurant vs friendly Indian family home-cooking ... 100 feet apart. A snooty French restaurant with a Michelin star requires the ever-present condescending high society Madame Mallory as the movie's "villain". Of course, when played by Helen Mirren, we know immediately that bad will turn to good. The driving force behind her transformation is Papa, played superbly by Om Puri. Stereotypes abound, but at least there is some humor blended so as not to be overcooked.The real basis for the movie is the extraordinarily talented young chef Hassan (played by Manish Dayal). His skill in the kitchen folded in with his overall niceness make it impossible for Madame Mallory or her sous-chef Margueritte (Charlotte Le Bon) to avoid taking notice in their own ways.The cultural differences certainly could have been played up and further examined, as could the backstory of all involved - the Indian family and Madame Mallory. An added level of depth and mystery could have been added if, say Catherine Deneuve had been cast in the Helen Mirren role (box office draw obviously played a role in her casting). More detail could have been provided for Hassan's time in Paris as well as what occurs with his Papa while he is away.Instead, the movie and the story go exactly where we expect it to go, providing the level of enjoyment and satisfaction that we demand from our comfort food. And there's nothing wrong with a big serving of that from time to time.
Greetings again from the darkness. While you are likely familiar with slapstick comedy, this latest from director Antoine Fuqua could be described as slapstick action. This fits because the implements of destruction include barbed wire, a power drill, a book (hardcover, of course), a nail gun, and even a corkscrew. Such an unusual assortment takes a bit of edge off the the extremely graphic violence. If the kills weren't so gruesome, we might be tempted to chuckle.Writer Richard Wenk adapts the story from the terrific TV series which ran from 1985-89. It starred the late, great Edward Woodward as a classy, sophisticated guy who believed in justice for those who needed help against the odds. For the movie, Denzel Washington takes over for Mr. Woodward as Robert "Bob" McCall ... the seemingly normal guy with extraordinary skills used to balance the scales.McCall lives a quiet life with OCD tendencies. He is a friendly guy liked by his co-workers at the home improvement box store (imagine Clark Kent working at Home Depot), and even mentors an overweight hispanic young man in his quest to pass the security guard test. McCall is also an insomniac who hangs out after hours reading Hemingway at a local diner, passing along words of hope and wisdom to an underage prostitute (Chloe Grace Moretz). None of these people have any idea of McCall's previous career with "the company". Our only glimpse of this is a quick visit to the home of characters from his past, played by Melissa Leo and Bill Pullman.Our villains here are the Russian mob, and it's tough to beat that accent for a juicy villain. David Meunier (Johnny Crowder of "Justified" fame) is our first goon, followed up by the slick and menacing Marton Csokas (The Debt) who has an impressive resume of his own. It would have been interesting to have more screen time together for Csokas and Denzel, but we understand why that's not practical.Similar to the Bourne movies, the good guy always seems to be a step ahead of the bad, but that has little impact on our ability to find fun in the action. Director Fuqua provides four or five really stylistic shots (including super slo-mo), but also relies on Michael Bay-splosions for one laughable scene at the loading docks. Another missed opportunity is the score. We are slammed with a thumping bass line through much of the movie, rather than utilizing the Stuart Copeland theme from the TV series. Expect McCall to arrange the flatware just so, and continue to dish out justice in at least one sequel.
Greetings again from the darkness. Clearly, depression is no laughing matter for anyone who suffers from it, or their friends, family or co-workers. But a puppet? Speaking as someone who is not qualified to speak on the topic, I do see how the puppet thing might be good therapy for someone who is depressed and has lost their "voice". But a movie about it? The good news ... IF I were going to make a movie about a depressed dude who talks through a puppet, I would cast Mel Gibson. If the premise is ever going to be believable or watchable, Mel is the man to make it happen. Director Jodie Foster fully understood this and was willing to take the financial risk of having PR-nightmare Gibson attached.The frustrating part is that he almost pulls it off, despite the fact that he is TALKING THROUGH A PUPPET most of the movie. We get to see a puppet co-star in a heavy-handed drama, not a comedy like what would come to your mind when you think of a puppet movie. This puppet shares family meals, board meetings, and love-making. Yep, really.Mr. Gibson proves what a terrific actor he is, though at times, I had difficulty not thinking of his real life personal escapades as the on screen drama was playing out. The opening shot of a beleaguered Gibson adrift in a pool makes it impossible to separate fact from fiction. Plus I found Gibson's choice of mimicking Ray Winstone's voice for the puppet to be quite distracting.I actually found the sub-plot with the oldest son, played by Anton Yelchin, to be far more interesting. His rogue business and pursuit of cheerleader/valedictorian Jennifer Lawrence was very intriguing. Ms. Foster not only directs, but also plays the wife/mother who provides far more patience and trust than her husband probably deserved.Seeing this movie back-to-back with "Everything Must Go" just about sent me into depression overload. All the puppet movie really showed me was that Gibson can still act and that Foster is still a fine actress and director, despite the material.
Greetings again from the darkness. Disney throws us another inspirational true story ... this time about South Philly's Vince Papale, a local bartender who was a walk-on cult hero for the Philadelphia Eagles in the late 1970's. Think "Rudy" in South Philly or "Rocky" in football pads.Marky Mark does a passable job as local hero and good guy Vince, who is just one of the guys in this struggling town. First time film director Ericson Core does a passable Disney job of providing a bit of the feel of these hard nosed, blue collar people who struggle with life but always find a way to support their Eagles.The story picks up when Eagles owner Leonard Tose (played by Miohael Nouri, who is seen in the current "Boynton Beach Club") hires UCLA hot shot coach Dick Vermeil (played well by underrated actor Greg Kinnear), following the Eagles miserable 1975 season. We get a few hints at the legendary brutal Philly sports fans and a small glimpse of home life for Vermeil, but most of the film centers on Papale and his personal struggles and his group of mostly supportive friends.Papale's love interest and future wife is played by the remarkable Elizabeth Banks (so wonderful in "The Baxter" and "40 Year Old Virgin") who, even though a Giants fan, seems to fit right in with this group of tough guys and, of course, immediately spots and falls for Vince's soft heart.Don't miss Sports Illustrated's Rick Reilly as a disgruntled Eagles fan and just see this one to enjoy the uplifting story and inspirational message it delivers. A soft PG-13 makes it OK for most kids who would have any interest in seeing it.
Greetings again from the darkness. To some: a national hero. To others: a monster or war criminal. Co-director Joshua Oppenheimer's concept was either to re-examine history or study the dark side of human nature. Either way, this is one of the most disturbing, difficult to watch documentaries I've ever seen.The film begins with this quote from Voltaire: "It is forbidden to kill; therefore all murderers are punished unless they kill in large numbers and to the sound of trumpets". We then read text that provides the only historical background provided by the film ... the Indonesian coup in 1965 that led to a year long slaughter of anyone deemed to be a communist. In reality, the definition was quite broad and basically included anyone who wasn't totally onboard with the new power structure.To carry out the massacre, a death squad of gangsters was employed and Oppenheimer recruits one of the most brutal of these gangsters to an "art" project: recreate your most heinous kills in whatever film genre you prefer. Anwar Congo agrees and even arranges for his accomplices to join in. The result is the most bizarre mixture of classic Hollywood crime thrillers and even a surreal musical number with bold colors and a giant metal fish.That's the best description I can provide. While I found myself unable to look away, this is not one that can really be recommended as a form of entertainment. There are some stunning moments here, but it's nauseating to recall. An Indonesian TV talk show host is giddy to have these "heroic" gangsters on her show. Congo gathers his grandchildren to watch a brutal re-enactment of one of his missions. Their discussions of how important movies were to their murderous activities could lead to further analysis of the role of art in violence, but instead it points out why Congo agreed to this project in the first place - his ego is such that he seems himself as a Bogart type hero.Renowned documentary filmmakers Werner Herzog and Errol Morris are both listed as producers, but some of the crew is listed as "anonymous" and who can blame them? While there seems to be no regret and no guilt for previous actions, there is an odd, extended scene where Congo's guttural bellows and dry-heaving leave us wondering if maybe there is a crack in his facade ... or is he just caught up in his performance. I'm not sure and I hope to never watch this again.
Greetings again from the darkness. One of the benefits of seeing so many movies is the ability to readily ascertain whether the appeal is to specific movie-goers (teens, romantics, et al), to mass audiences, or perhaps only to film critics and cinephiles. The downside is that when one of the rare mass appeal thrillers hits theatres, my enjoyment of the twists and surprises tends to suffer. Such is the case with director David Fincher's version of Gillian Flynn's best-selling novel.Whether or not you are a devotee of Ms. Flynn's novel, you are likely to find guilty pleasure in this pulpy, neo-noir thriller featuring Ben Affleck as the man who may or may not have killed his missing wife (Rosamund Pike). This is less "whodunit" and more "did he do it?". When Nick (Affleck) returns home to discover his wife (Pike) is missing, we hear Amy's voice guiding us through her journal as we go from blossoming romance to crumbling marriage. Nick's perspective is derived from his work with the detectives (Kim Dickens and Patrick Fugit).This story-telling structure is beautifully executed, and when combined with director Fincher's fascination with the dark side of people (The Social Network, Zodiac, Se7en, Fight Club), and the terrific camera work and lighting elevate this from a technical filmmaking standpoint. Watch how Fincher uses lighting and shadows to change the tone of the film as the noose tightens on Affleck's character.Much has been made of the performances of Affleck and Pike, so I'd prefer to focus on a couple of others. Carrie Coon steals every scene as Nick's twin sister Margot. She is the moral compass of the film, and gives the absolute best performance. Kim Dickens provides the necessary screen presence and wry humor to prevent the stereotypical detective role from emerging. This is a real person working a complicated case. Also of note, is Missi Pyle's obnoxious Nancy Grace style TV reporter clearly attempting to build ratings by guiding the sheep. Lastly, and most surprising, Tyler Perry's slick and slimy headline-grabbing defense attorney provides a punch when the film needs it.The second half of the film transitions from mystery to anatomy of a scheme, and features one of the most brutal and bloody on screen murders you will ever see. It also provides more excellent support work from Lola Kirke and Brad Holbrook as a couple of trailer park opportunists, and Scoot McNairy and Neil Patrick Harris (against type) as Amy's former lovers.The wicked fun in this movie is derived mostly from the misdirection and personalities of Nick and Amy. It's nice to see a female lead character with some real scene-chewing, even though I believe many actresses would have been better picks. When I hear talk that it could be best movie of the year, I certainly hope that's off base. This one is at the level of other mainstream thrillers as Fatal Attraction and Basic Instinct, and it's not difficult to imagine Michael Douglas in the lead, were this 1988. Adding to the fun is the satire and social commentary ... especially on the current trend of media speculation. So enjoy the twists and ask yourself just how much you really know about your spouse.
Greetings again from the darkness. This has been a slow and torturous year for lovers of indie films ... the good ones have been quite limited. That may help explain my fascination and total buy-in of this film based on the memoir of Lynn Barber. Accomplished Dane director Lone Scherfig takes the screenplay from Nick Hornby (High Fidelity) and turns it into a rather beautiful coming of age, romantic tragedy.Carey Mulligan turns herself into an instant movie star with her performance as Jenny ... the dedicated student and quietly lusting for life daughter of bombastic know it all Alfred Molina and the quietly desperate Cara Seymour (Hell-cat Maggie in Gangs of New York). Jenny's head gets spun around by Peter Sarsgaard, the slick (15 yrs her senior) talker in the fancy sportscar, who rescues her from a driving rainstorm and drops her right in the middle of a fairy tale life of concerts, art, shopping and fancy restaurants. She falls hard.The couple hang out with his friends Dominic Cooper (Mamma Mia) and Rosamund Pike (who is finally perfectly cast). While the "business" of Cooper and Sarsgaard is a bit of a mystery at first, Jenny is too caught up in the fanciful lifestyle to really dig in.Her new life leaks back into her all-girls school where the headmistress (Emma Thompson) and English teacher (a spinster-looking Olivia Williams) caution her against throwing away her future at Oxford, yet are unable to answer Jenny's question ... "What's it all been for?". Really good stuff when the viewer keeps the timeline of the film in context. It's not 2009, but rather 1961 ... young ladies just didn't ask those questions. And older women certainly had no answers!So many terrific moments and situations are complimented by amazing acting and very good writing. This is in no way a film for the masses, but it certainly struck a chord with me. Don't miss Oscar nominated Sally Hawkins (Happy Go Lucky) in a very brief, but critical role. Most of all ... welcome to the big time Carey Mulligan!
Greetings again from the darkness. Hands down, this is the best cop movie in quite awhile. Not only that, it's about street cops, not flashy detectives. This is no good cop/bad cop dance. These aren't rebellious, power hungry cops run amok flashing their badges. Taylor (Jake Gyllenhaal) and Zavala (Michael Pena) are simply dedicated cops who are committed to serving the mission and surviving another day.This film works for two reasons: the performances of Gyllenhaal and Pena, and the amazing writing and directing from David Ayer. Mr. Ayer is best known as the writer of Training Day, but also wrote Dark Blue and S.W.A.T, and directed Street Kings. He grew up in south central Los Angeles, and clearly has a talent for bringing real life to the screen.Taylor and Pena are long time partners who have the familiarity and banter down to a science. These are guys who become brothers based on spending everyday together and trusting the other with their lives. These two scoff at the department mandate to write more traffic tickets, and instead find themselves smack dab in the middle of a Mexican drug cartel. That's not a good place for two street cops and they soon wind up on the wrong list of some really bad people.We see shootouts, car chases, chases on foot, rescues, traffic stops, house searches and just about anything else that these heroes are subjected to on a daily basis ... just trying to maintain some sense of civility on their beat. No matter how frustrated you get with your job, put yourself in their "comfortable footwear" and imagine rolling up on "big evil", who wants nothing more than to make you suffer.There is a really interesting thing going on with video cameras. Taylor is filming his daily activities for a class he is taking, while this group of bad guys is also seen filming their nightly activities against humanity. Also, the supporting cast doesn't play a huge role, but David Harbour, Frank Grillo, America Ferrera, Natalie Martinez and Anna Kendrick are all solid. The exception is Cody Horn who is way out of her element, and quite a distraction.Pena and Gyllenhaal are a joy to watch and strike the necessary bond required for this movie to work. We never once doubt that these guys are brothers and fully trust worthy. Good guys doing a tough job in a bad part of the world. More of this, please. (www.MovieReviewsFromTheDark.wordpress.com)
Greetings again from the darkness. American audiences are, for the most part, still not aware of the genius of Ricky Gervais. Make 90 minutes for this film and you will be a fan. His delivery and style is very unique and tart (ok, acidic!). This guy can deliver an undressing with minimal effort ... but you can't take your eyes off of him.David Koepp is better known for his impressive writing resume, but does have Depp's "Secret Window" as a directorial credit. No question much of this was improv, but either way, the dialogue is brilliant and funny, despite the somewhat familiar ground of communicating with the dead.Greg Kinnear, Tea Leoni and the Rocketeer, Bill Campbell deliver the support work ... well along with about 15 undead, who all want something from Gervais. So much of the foundation for the character of Gervais' dentist character is funny strictly because of his delivery. Quality adult comedies are pretty rare, so you should check this one out.
Greetings again from the darkness. I fully expected this to be an all-out raunch-com in the vein of "The Hangover", and I was absolutely mistaken. The film only slips into slapstick and physical punchlines at the lowest part of the actual dinner. The rest of the movie is pretty basic and set near real life.Often, real life situations bring the most humor. Sadly, that's not the case here. Most of this one is just plain boring. There are some very talented people associated with this one and they all do a fine job. It's just that the pieces don't make up a whole. The film basically rides on the shoulders of the talented Steve Carell as Barry. Barry is a genuinely nice guy whose wife left him for his boss (Zach Galfianakis), and his hobby is making intricate displays of dressed up dead mice ... his "mouseterpieces", he calls them.Paul Rudd plays Tim, another genuinely nice trying very hard to make it in the business world. He has the right car and a great apartment and a beautiful girlfriend (Stephanie Szostack) who doesn't think it's time for them to be married. Tim seizes an opportunity at work to go for a promotion. This gets him invited to his boss's monthly dinner party where all the managers bring a guest with extraordinary skills ... the schmucks of the title. The point is to have a good laugh at the expense of the idiots. Obviously Tim runs into Barry and guest list is complete.Tim explains to his girlfriend that there is a "me you don't know" who has to do things in order to get ahead at work. I really wanted to see more of THAT guy! Instead, we are subjected to another film that just doesn't know how to take advantage of Paul Rudd's talent. He is a funny guy and you would never know it here.If not for Steve Carell and an outlandish performance by Jemaine Clement (Flight of the Conchords) as an "artist", this film would be totally flat. Instead, there are a few laughs and an underlying theme about the sweetness of some people. It tries to ask the question, who are the real schmucks? Director Jay Roach is responsible for the Austin Powers and the Meet the Parents franchises. He obviously knows humor. He takes this one from a French film directed by Francis Veber called "The Dinner Game". In that film, we never actually get to the dinner. In this one, the film sinks to its lowest point during the dinner. Lesson learned. Best part? Hearing the Beatles during the opening and closing credits.
Greetings again from the darkness. This is America and I feel like suing someone! The preview and the cast led me to believe this was a wickedly funny and twisted story with an amazing cast that would be on the intellectual mode of Wes Anderson's gem "The Royal Tenenbaums". Instead what we are fed is a big bowl of self-serving-psycho-babble-manic-depressive-yet-somehow-boring and soulless goulash.The creator of "Nip/Tuck", Ryan Murphy, is credited as "Director", but after watching this, maybe HE should sue someone because it is obvious no one actually directed this. There is no flow, no story, no message and no reason to pay money to see this one. Yes, it does have an amazing cast and the kept promises end there. There are two chuckles in the film and countless moments that made this avid movie-lover want to get up and walk out. The great Annette Bening is reduced to screaming nonsense while wearing no make-up. Alec Baldwin poses a couple of times as he stares blankly at the camera. What in Coldplay's name possessed Gwyneth Paltrow to accept her role? Brian Cox over-smirks his role. I just felt sorry for the once great Jill Clayburgh. The only two semi-interesting characters are played by Joesph Fiennes and soon to be mega-star Evan Rachel Wood (who steals EVERY movie she is in).The film is supposedly based on writer Augusten Burrough's memoirs (which I have not read), but one can't help but believe his creative side took over for numerous exaggerations. The story is not believable, funny, heartfelt or any other adjective that might seem somewhat appealing. Even many of the chosen songs from the era are some of the worst possible choices.All are advised to avoid and wait for the next real film with Annette Bening or Gwyneth Paltrow or Evan Rachel Wood. And let's hope Mr. Murphy's magic touch is not limited to "Nip/Tuck".
Greetings again from the darkness. A few upfront disclosures are in order: I spent quite a few evenings on the Sunset Strip during the era of this story; I had no idea who Diego Boneta was and only vague name recognition of Julianne Hough when I walked in; and I never saw the hit Broadway production. These points may help explain my reaction to the movie.The opening sequence immediately informs us that we are in for something different. Aspiring singer Sherrie Christian (Ms. Hough) is running from her backwoods Oklahoma life to the bright lights of fame offered by Hollywood. While on the bus, we get the first of an endless stream of staged karaoke routines ... "Sister Christian" (get it??). Once on Sunset Boulevard, she is quickly mugged and then comforted by Drew (Mr. Boneta), an aspiring singer and current barhop at The Bourbon, an obvious nod to such hallowed rock ground as Whisky A Go Go and Roxy.No need to spend much time discussing plot. There is a muddled love story filled with teenager dreams and miscommunication, and a financial crisis at The Bourbon, thanks to back taxes owed by manager Dennis Dupree (Alec Baldwin), and a political backlash against the club thanks to the Mayor's wife (Catherine Zeta-Jones), who has a not so secret need for revenge. The only way to save the club is for rock idol Stacee Jaxx (Tom Cruise) to play a gig. The only way to save the love story is to write it out of the film all together. The political agenda is simply an excuse to add two more excruciating karaoke numbers.What little fun there is in the movie is thanks to Cruise, Baldwin and Russell Brand, who plays Baldin's sidekick and confidant. Cruise jumps into the Jaxx role with both feet and seems to understand that a parody should be fun. Being a rock idol isn't far removed from being the biggest movie star on the planet, so Cruise blends Axl Rose and Bret Michaels to create Jaxx ... throw in a pet baboon, two He-men bodyguards, an endless train of groupies, and a dragon codpiece ... and you get Stacee Jaxx, legendary rock star.If one is going to make a rock 'n roll movie, it either needs to be played straight (Almost Famous) or as a head-on parody (This is Spinal Tap). What it can't do is celebrate the dead zone of lameness: lame music covered by lame singers playing lame characters. No amount of star power actors can overcome material that doesn't capture the power and passion of the music. And we aren't even talking real rock n roll here ... this is glam rock, stadium rock, big hair bands. Yet, the movie still falls incredibly short of making a statement or providing insight or even entertainment.Cruise's performance generates some laughs, as do Baldwin and Brand. However, Hough and Boneta aren't even cringe-worthy. They have no screen presence and neither belong in a rock movie. Maybe the real problem is that most of the songs in the movie have survived these 25 years because of their mediocrity ... they can easily be sung while intoxicated. Evidently that's not enough for a decent movie.
Greetings again from the darkness. Often cited as one of the all-time great films, I was fortunate enough to catch this one again in a limited theatrical release ... a staggeringly beautiful and crisp print. The look of the film is so clear it looks new, and the updated subtitles make sense and are easy to read. As amazing as it looks, the real value is in the film itself.Directed by the great Jean Renoir, the story takes place during WWI and shows a much different viewpoint than what we would normally expect from a war movie. But then, this is not really a war movie ... or a POW movie ... or a Political statement. The real core of this story is the respect and gentlemanly nature exhibited by the men from opposing sides of the war. It is a reminder that war itself is the grand illusion. We also see the results of class differences. When German pilot von Rauffenstein shoots down a couple of French planes, he tells the recovery team to "invite them to lunch" if they are officers. And then we see the similarities of the aristocratic officers as von Rauffenstein and Captain de Boeldieu discover their common bonds.The influence of this film is quite obvious in two scenes. The digging of the escape tunnel and subsequent emptying of pockets on the prison grounds were "borrowed" in The Great Escape. Also, the singing of "La Marseilles" to annoy the Germans was used quite effectively in Casablanca. We also see a quite daring bedside death scene with the pure admiration between opposing officers who decide dying in war is "a good way out" for their types. Powerful stuff. There is also much commentary on differences: aristocrats, working class, Jewish, Germans, and career soldiers. We even see cross-dressing (with a purpose) in a couple of scenes, one of which provides an unforgettable visual as the soldiers sing "It's a Long Way to Tipperary".As great as the movie is, the backstory is almost as fascinating. Released as WWII was brewing, it was one of the first things Goebbels seized when the Germans took France. The original negative was shipped to Berlin and presumed destroyed. However, it ended up in Russian archives and was re-discovered in the 1990's. This was after Renoir attempted restoration from numerous copies in the 1960's. Unfortunately, he did not live to see this most recent restoration that brought the film back to it's original glory. Renoir's camera work is something to behold - subtle movements for extended shots. By the way, Jean Renoir is the son of the famous French Impressionist Pierre-Auguste Renoir. I believe they call that good genes.Silent film director Erich von Stroheim's iconic turn as von Rauffenstein is truly movie magic. You will recognize von Stroheim as the man servant in Sunset Boulevard. Boeldieu is played by Pierre Fresnay, Marechal is played by Jean Gabin, and Rosenthal by Marcel Dalio. Marechal and Rosenthal have a remarkable segment at Elsa's farm house. Elsa is played by the stunning Dita Parlo. This sequence provides a nice contrast to the POW portions of the film.This work of art is now 75 years old. It is highly recommended that you see it at least once. Also, check out Renoir's other masterpiece The Rules of the Game.
Greetings again from the darkness. This one will be compared to "The Princess Bride" and although it doesn't measure up to that classic, it is extremely entertaining and well made in its own right. The story line is a bit odd and the whole wall thing is never really explained, but the execution is fine, even building up strong suspense.Charlie Cox plays Tristan, who falls for the wrong girl (Sienna Miller), and agrees to fetch her a fallen star ... who happens to be played by the stunning Claire Danes. Not much suspense on what happens with these two, but the suspenseful part comes in with the wicked witch played by Michelle Pfeiffer and the prince son of King Peter O'Toole looking to reclaim the ruby necklace our "star" is wearing. Lots of bad chasing the good.Along the way, an encounter with the strangest pirate you will see (including any from the Carribbean). Robert Deniro plays Captain Shakespeare - tough on the inside, and shall we say in touch with his feminine side. Another encounter involves the brilliant Ricky Gervais as a fast talking trader and that is good for a couple of laughs.Not your typical chase, coming of age, or fantasy film, but director Matthew Vaughn's ("Layer Cake") effort deserves an audience. Sadly the poor marketing campaign will probably prevent it from making any money. My guess it will find big success on video.
Greetings again from the darkness. Some movies are made as pure visual entertainment. Others are made as a vision of a story. The best combine elements of both. The great ones WOW you with what you see on screen, while keeping your mind focused on the multiple dimensions of a story that just won't let you get ahead. The previous sentence is my feeble attempt at describing what happens during "Inception".Writer/director Christopher Nolan turns 40 at the end of this month. He now has 3 instant-classic films to his credit: "Memento", "The Dark Knight" and now "Inception". I am not a good enough writer to describe just how talented he his at making films. What I can tell you is that this movie gave me a "runner's high" ... it put me "in the zone". As a viewer, I felt in perfect sync at each twist and turn.There are two pieces of advice I will offer. First, go see the film at a theatre on the big screen. Don't wait for NetFlix. Second, pay attention to every scene and every line. Trust Mr. Nolan to take you on this wild ride. You may be able to figure out the ending (if there even is one), but you will have missed the real point of the film ... how did you get here? Here is a brief synopsis: Leonardo DiCaprio plays an expert thief. He is a thief who steals ideas by infiltrating the dreams of his targets and snatching their ideas. A very wealthy tycoon played by Ken Watanabe hires DiCaprio for a risky project of Inception - the inserting of an idea into the subject's mind through dreams, rather than the stealing of an idea. DiCaprio's team is played by Joseph Gordon-Levitt (with physical brilliance while lacking gravitational force), Tom Hardy (from Rocknrolla), master chemist Dileep Rao, and new recruit Ellen Page (Juno plays a brilliant architect prodigy with a genius of space and dimension). Cillian Murphy plays the target and Michael Caine is DiCaprio's father in law ... the link between who Leo is now and his previous life with his wife, played hauntingly well by Marion Cotillard.A perfect Nolan touch is Ellen Page's character name - Ariadne. A quick google finds that Ariadne, in Greek mythology, fell in love with Theseus and helped him escape Minotaur's labyrinth. The film is full of mazes and is itself a labyrinth punctuated by a stunning and powerful score by Hans Zimmer. You will find yourself bouncing from dream to reality, jumping into another's dreams, layering dreams upon each other ... oh, and watching a mind-bending special effect as the city of Paris is folded over on top of itself.Clear your mind for 2 and a half hours and let a terrific filmmaker take you on a journey through mindspace that we never really pay attention to. The payoff is dream-like.
Greetings again from the darkness. The film fascination with Royalty continues thanks to the coolness of costumes and the grand scale of palaces. Of course, a thread-thin relation to Princess Diana doesn't hurt at all either.Somehow the man's world of the Duke of Devonshire, played by Ralph Fiennes, allowed for multiple affairs even to the extreme of having one's favorite side dish just move right on in to the main house ... including meals with the Royal couple!! It would be quite funny, if not so sad.Keira Knightley plays the Duchess with fortitude and the proper amount of reservation. She has become quite adept at the period piece. Fiennes, on the other hand, plays the Duke as if he has a constant stomach ache and is in need of Alka-Seltzer. He totally lacks charisma or even many human traits, save lust for those other than his wife. The third wheel who is promoted to second is played well by Hayley Atwell, a desperate and alternatingly cold and warm mother and friend. Rounding out the cast are Dominic Cooper (Mamma Mia) who plays future Prime Minister Charles Grey, and the true love of The Duchess' life; and Charlotte Rampling as the too proud mother to Knightley, who dispenses very weak advice with a stiff upper lip.The film is well done and the similarities to Princess Diana's marriage are inescapable, but there is just not quite enough substance here. Easy enough to watch, but lacking in historical details ... more of a soap opera approach.
Greetings again from the darkness. Not at the level of the first film in this series, but still entertaining. Director Andrew Adamson is back at the helm as are all the "kids" (Kings and Queens of Narnia). Interesting to note that Adamson is turning over the directorial reins to Michael Apted for the next chapter (2010 release date).C.S. Lewis was very upfront in stating that he wrote the Chronicles as a biblical allegory to interest kids. While the youngest kids will struggle a bit with the story line, most will find the characters and visuals fascinating ... even if they never make the religious connections.The exception is Prince Caspian played by Ben Barnes. This Prince has a bit too much San Francisco (not that there's anything wrong with it), replete with puffy shirt and Shampoo commercial hair. I kept hoping the evil uncle would figure out a way to off him! Despite that, Eddie Izzard and Liam Neesom turn in strong vocal performances again, and the action sequences are amazingly cool. Not exactly a classic, but certainly worth seeing.
Greetings again from the darkness. This is Italy's submission to the Academy for Best Foreign Film of 2013. If it wasn't such a beautiful film to watch, a fun game of spot the Italian director influence could be played. Director Paolo Sorrentino owes much to Fellini and La dolce vita, but this is more than a tribute. Sorrentino shows much style and insight, and his commitment to camera angles, movement, colors, textures and faces are quite something to behold.Toni Servillo plays Jep Gambardella, a man celebrating his 65th birthday by doing what he does most every night ... partying with his group of intellectual friends. Jep had a successful novel published in his 20's and has since worked sporadically as a journalist, but has never again focused on his writing. One can't help but notice the similarities to Marcello Mastroianni in La dolce vita, but Jep is jolted with news that sends him flashing back to his younger years and his one true love.Much of the story includes Roman decadence, and it can easily be viewed as the decline of Roman civilization both past and present. See, Jep's apartment overlooks the famous ruins of The Colosseum. Even moreso, we get a nice conflict between uppity society and the all too important modern and conceptual art crowd. Toss in a few pot shots at the Vatican and Sorrentino seems to be telling us that everyone takes themselves entirely too seriously ... even as we belittle and judge others. Whatever his true message, the sensory overload provided here could be a film class in camera style and is quite fun to watch.
Greetings again from the darkness. Disappointing, yet entertaining film version of the Shauna Cross novel brought to us by first time director Drew Barrymore. I say disappointing because it really looks like they filmed the rough draft of the screenplay. It could have been so much more with a little effort and work on the script. Entertaining for all the other reasons! First, this is Ellen Page's film ... she not only carries the Hurl Scouts into the championship game, she also carries most every scene in the film. She gets some nice support work from Alia Shawkat as her best friend Pash, as well as the lost Wilson brother, Andrew, who makes for a very interesting Roller Derby coach! Marcia Gay Harden and Daniel Stern star as Page's mismatched parents. Harden is the one time beauty pageant queen pushing her daughter that direction, while Stern is the sports loving dad seemingly stuck with two daughters and a very controlling wife.Nice to see stuntwoman supreme Zoe Bell get another real acting gig after stealing Tarantino's Death Proof, and Juliette Lewis really chomps down on her role as the jealous oldtimer in the league. Sadly Kristen Wiig has little to do here and Jimmy Fallon is just way over the top as the ring announcer. Singer Landon Pigg has an odd turn as Page's first love interest - mostly wasted screen time that could have been better spent.Would have really enjoyed a bit more character development as there are certainly no shortage of potential jackpots. Stay for the end and check out the credits ... not sure I have ever seen more individual songs in one film.
Greetings again from the darkness. This Sci-Fi thriller with a good premise just comes across as underdeveloped. Can't really blame director Jonathan Mostow (Terminator 3, U-571) as he delivers some pretty good visuals and nice overall look of the film. What I don't get is how such advanced physical robots could be developed, yet artificial intelligence is present at all.Bruce Willis is supposed to bring the human side to the film through his suffering (loss of child), longing (depressed wife) and anger (beating the crap out of a surrogate who continues laughing at him). Somehow we feel no connection to this poor guy all on his own in the cold, cruel world. Could it be that we have basically seen all of this before? A suspended cop going renegade to save the day by solving the crime ... what a novel idea! On the bright side, brilliant casting have Radha Mitchell and Rosamund Pike as key surrogate characters. Since both show the range of a robot in most of their films, this couldn't have been too difficult for them. The make-up on surrogates was very good - creating a mannequin look, even for Willis. Throw in James Cromwell as the twisted mastermind bent on revenge and redemption, and what you have is a pretty basic story wrapped around an under-developed premise of surrogate robots.Some similarities to WestWorld; I, Robot; and The Matrix, this one falls short.
Greetings again from the darkness. Louis Zamperini was a true American hero and his life story is epic and legendary. The son of Italian immigrants, young Louie easily found trouble, and only the efforts of his older brother and a local police officer allowed him to discover inner strength through his talent for distance running. As a 19 year old, Louie ran in the 1936 Berlin Olympics, and later enlisted in the Air Force and served as a bombardier during WWII. After a horrible plane crash, he spent a grueling 47 days adrift at sea in a life raft, until rescued/captured by the Japanese. Zamperini served as a Prisoner of War, where he was subjected to immense physical and psychological torture, until the war finally ended.Zamperini's story has long deserved to be made into a movie, and it has bounced around Hollywood since 1957. However, it wasn't until Laura Hillenbrand's biography on Zamperini became a best seller in 2010 that the film version was given the go-ahead. With screenplay credits for Joel Coen, Ethan Coen, Richard LaGravenese, and William Nicholson, cinematography from the great Roger Deakins, and a score from Alexandre Desplat, it was a bit surprising when Angelina Jolie was named director. After all, she only had one previous credit as a director, and that film (In the Land of Blood and Honey, 2011) was nowhere near the scope of this project.Given the true life inspirational story and the truly heroic events of its featured character, the film can best be labeled a mild disappointment. It is extremely impressive to look at, but somehow lacking in emotion  despite some excruciatingly uncomfortable moments. The film strives for the level of historic epic, yet its conventional tone and approach leave us wondering what's missing. The single most effective and emotional moment occurs in a short clip of the real Louis Zamperini running as an Olympic torch bearer at age 80 for the 1998 Olympics (in Japan!).Jack O'Connell pours everything he has into capturing the spirit of Zamperini, and he is certainly an actor to keep an eye on. Japanese rock star Miyaki plays "The Bird" Watanabe, a sadistic POW camp commander who brutalized Zamperini, but Miyaki lacks the chops to pull off this crucial role  going a bit heavy on the posturing. The film uses the line "If you can take it, you can make it" as its rallying cry, but too many gaps are left for the audience to bridge as we watch Louie go from a punk kid to a war hero with almost mystical courage and perseverance. Other supporting work comes from Domhnall Gleeson, Garrett Hedlund, Jai Courtney and CJ Valleroy (as young Louie).On paper, all the pieces are in place for an Oscar contender, and the film may very well play well with voters. My preference would have been to have the real life Louis Zamperini more involved  through either narration or interviews. He spent the second half of his life as a motivational speaker and story-teller, and would have added an incredible element to the film. Unfortunately, Mr. Zamperini died 4 months prior to the release of the film so he never saw the finished product. It's likely he died knowing that his legacy is part of American history and that he did in fact "make it".
Greetings again from the darkness. Plain and simple ... this is not my kind of movie. I fully understand there exists movie-goers who are thrilled that director Guillermo del Toro's latest finally hit theatres, but I really struggled with this mash-up of Transformers, Battleship and Godzilla, as well as what I believe to be a new world record for noise level. That being said, I do have some positive comments to make.The technological aspects of the movie are exceptional. It has a unique look with some of the best CGI ever seen. There is no shortage of action, which is typically good for an action movie ... but here, it seemed that one monster vs robot fight led right into the next one. The cast is very talented and represent some of the most entertaining shows on TV: Sons of Anarchy, True Blood, Homeland, It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia and Justified. The downside is many of them don't seem overly excited to be here just to spout some of the worst dialogue of the year.The basic story is a war between mankind and the Kaiju - monsters from another world. World leaders work together to develop the Jaeger program ... robots co-piloted by two people who are drift compatible (a kind of mind meld that let's them fight as one). After years of struggling against the Kaiju, the world leaders decide instead to build a security wall around the main cities. Clearly they had not seen World War Z or read any of the "fence" stories from the US/Mexico border. No surprise, but the robots have to be reactivated for the climactic battle scene.Iris Elba runs the Jaeger program and commands the pilots that include Charlie Hunnam, Rinko Kikuchi, Max Martini, and Robert Kazinski. Hunnam is battling inner demons after the death of his brother (Diego Klattenhoff). For some reason, Hunnam plays his part with an overdose of bland. He seems to have been cast for his effectiveness in his shirtless scenes. Martini and Kazinski stand out here, probably because competition is so uninspired, oh and they have a dog. Ms. Kikuchi seems to be under the impression that her scenes were rehearsals as she can't quite hash out a consistent approach (translated: she is painful to watch). The usually great Elba alternates between a mumbled whisper and a full-out yell ... neither working too well. His "canceling the apocalypse" speech seems to be right out of Independence Day.The comedy relief is provided by the shared scenes of Charlie Day and del Toro favorite Ron Perlman. Day is at his screechiest and Perlman at his most flamboyant, but it's not enough of the story to salvage much hope. Instead we get an endless number of hand-to-hand combat scenes between Jaeger and Kaiju. And they mostly all look the same: waist deep in water while its dark and rainy. Unless they happen to be completely underwater, where it's even darker.For all the negatives tossed out here, it must be ended with the reminder that the movie is a technical marvel to look at. I much prefer del Toro in the Pan's Labyrinth mode, and I would even prefer the old Japanese Godzilla monster-fests to this, but he has raised the bar for robotic and monster CGI. Maybe that's enough for your eyes and ears.
Greetings again from the darkness. With a tip of the cap to "The Godfather" and "Once Upon a Time in America", director David Cronenberg delivers a very stylish, realistic view of the Russian mob and presents some pretty scary characters along the way.Viggo Mortensen is downright chilling in his role as "just the driver". Much research went into his role and is shows in the realistic feel of his physical movement and vocal inflections. He is terrific. Also strong are Vincent Cassell ("Oceans Twelve and Thirteen") as the weak son of the especially strong and frightening Armin Mueller-Stahl (so great in "Avalon").The only weaknesses in the film are a mediocre performance from the usually great Naomi Watts and a story line that just ends too abruptly. It left me wanting much more. One warning ... this film has the most violent, brutal and explicit fight scene I have ever witnessed on film. The realism and sound effects will certainly make even the staunchest violence fan a bit squirmish.
Greetings again from the darkness. Known for an endless stream of copycats and re-treads, the horror genre periodically surprises us with a dose of originality. Heck, we don't even ask horror filmmakers for anything too revolutionary  just give us something we haven't seen a few dozen times before. Writer/director David Robert Mitchell "gets it" and delivers a game of psycho-sexual-tag-you're-it featuring the most sinister STD ever.A definite departure from the all-too-common teen slasher films, the slow-drip terror of this one has more in common with dread and eventuality than scream-inducing terror and "made you jump" scares. When we first meet Jay (Maika Monroe), she is a typical pushing-twenty student who enjoys leisurely swims in her suburban backyard pool, hanging out with friends, and a healthy dating scene. Well, healthy until one evening of back seat passion with Hugh (Jake Weary) sets off the above-mentioned sinistry. See Jake has purposefully "passed on" some kind of affliction that attracts a death-seeking entity who slowly, but purposefully pursues its target. Supposedly the only options are to be killed or pass it on through more passion  the worst kind of "pay it forward".Jay is supported in her ongoing attempts to avoid the entity by her sister Kelly (Lili Sepe), her neighbor and classmate Greg (Daniel Zovatto), and Paul (Keir Gilchrist) her not-so-secret admirer who would do anything to protect her. The big catch is that only Jay can see the entity  making heroism quite elusive for her support group.Lest there be any doubt of the dire situation, director Mitchell begins the movie with a very vivid example of the likely result in being "caught" by the entity, and adds the score from composer Disasterpeace  an ominous throwback techno-sound that would be distracting if not so fitting. This has all the makings of a breakout role for Maika Monroe, with similarities to Jamie Lee Curtis in the original Halloween movie (1978).The low budget caused some obvious production limitations  in particular an awkward bounce from day to night and back again, and some iffy effects. However, the suburban Detroit setting provides a nice backdrop, and of special note are the Redford Theatre (est 1928) replete with its beautiful pipe organ, and the indoor swimming pool put to spectacular use in the film's climax. As long as the audience is not expecting the typical teen slasher, this creative horror film should gain an audience while putting director David Robert Mitchell on the fast track to bigger budget films.
Greetings again from the darkness. The expected cringes and groans never surfaced as the modernized re-boot of Paul Verhoeven's 1987 classic unfolded on the screen. Sure, I wish Peter Weller made even a cameo appearance, and yes, I missed the charm, humor and satire that has allowed the original to remain relevant; but, director Jose Padilha reimagines the story, sticks to PG-13 action, and incorporates the video game look favored by today's filmgoers.The opening sequence takes place in Tehran and is extremely well done, setting the stage for incisive commentary on today's foreign policies. Unfortunately, THAT movie never materializes, but we do get the over-the-top conservative news host ... played colorfully by Samuel L Jackson, who does manage to work in his iconic catchphrase. His holographic studio reminds of Minority Report, and has the futuristic look required.Joel Kinnaman (TV's "The Killing) adequately fills the part man/ part robot role (good guy and good cop Alex Murphy), but the script really lets him down when it comes to his wife (Abbie Cornish) and kid, his crime-fighting instincts, and the overlapping criminal elements - a generic arms dealer and the ultimate villain known as mega corporation OmniCorp run by the great Michael Keaton. The movie's best scenes involve the interaction between Keaton and the always terrific Gary Oldman, playing a conflicted doctor/robotics genius with a conscience (most of the time).The supporting cast is stellar and features a nasty Jackie-Earle Haley, a properly proper Jennifer Ehle, a relatively straight-laced Jay Baruchel, a two-faced police captain played by Marianne Jean-Baptiste, Murphy's partner Michael K Williams, and Oldman's loyal assistant played by Aimee Garcia ("Dexter"). The only misstep is the arms dealer played with zero screen presence by Patrick Garrow.A bit too much shakycam in the first shootout left me disappointed, as did most of the action sequences. However, the effects for the robotic suit and Murphy's "body" are fantastic. This is very much a tale of moralistic choices, and it could have been interesting to see Murphy go a bit deeper in his existential questioning of Man or Machine. Mostly, I was simply relieved it wasn't terrible and didn't tarnish the legacy.
Greetings again from the darkness. "I wonder if you wonder." Every time I hear Walter Neff say those words to Phyllis Dietrichson as their initial encounter concludes, I smile and settle in for another round of Double Indemnity (1944) ... one of my all-time favorites. Though I have seen it many times over the years, I recently saw it for the first time on the big screen ... and from a 35mm print! So much of the subtle filmmaking becomes apparent - the variance of lighting, the intensity of shadows, and the vividness of close-ups. This reinforces my belief that we should never miss an opportunity to view good films in a theatre setting ... just as the director intended.Since this film was released 67 years ago, it's difficult to discuss without noting a key plot point or character reaction. If you haven't seen it and plan to, you might stop reading here. If you would like a little insight, then let's keep going. Billy Wilder (left) directed the film and his place as a Hollywood legend is quite secure. He was nominated for 21 Oscars (Director, Writer, Producer) and had 3 wins. Some of his classics are: The Lost Weekend, Sunset Blvd, Witness for the Prosecution, Some Like it Hot, The Apartment, The Front Page. Many think of Wilder as a comedic filmmaker and he certainly had success in that genre, but if you watch closely, even his comedies have a dark element to them.Double Indemnity is based on the novella by James M Cain, who also wrote Mildred Pierce and The Postman Always Rings Twice. Wilder was a fan of Cain's book, but knew the dialogue wouldn't work well on screen. So together with Raymond Chandler they wrote a screenplay filled with crackling lines and a constant feeling of dread and pending doom. As great as the script is, it is heightened by a wonderful cast that includes Fred MacMurray, Barbara Stanwyck, Edward G Robinson, Porter Hall, Jean Heather, Tom Powers, Richard Gaines and Byron Barr.For me, MacMurray's performance is what brings the words to life and jumps the film to the "must see" category. He is playing against two Hollywood heavyweights in Stanwyck and Robinson, but we are somehow sympathetic to this not-so-bright guy who gets played like a fiddle by the villainous, wily woman he lusts after. Even as he is recording his confession, a part of us understands how he got drawn into MURDER! Not just any murder, but one for money and love ... only there is no money, and there is no love.Ms. Stanwyck is perfectly cast as the femme fatale who weaves her web of deceit and destruction. She quickly spots the vulnerability of MacMurray's character and uses her assets just enough to hold the leash tight. It is a testament to her screen presence that she can pull off the sultry siren while sporting a less-than-desirable blonde wig. At the time, the wig was so controversial that the producers compared it to George Washington and wanted it trashed. However, filming was too far along and now it's impossible to imagine her looking any other way. Besides, MacMurray only seems to notice her anklet!Edward G Robinson made a name for himself as a tough-guy actor ... cop and mobster all rolled into one. Here he plays the insurance investigator with a sixth-sense for fraudulent claims. He is a hard-nosed, dedicated employee who takes his responsibility very seriously and has no sympathy for those who cheat his cherished system. He has a soft spot for co-worker MacMurray, even though he is one of the back-slapping salesmen he so loathes. Their relationship in the film is one of respect and about as close as two professional men could be, given the era. When Robinson goes off on his rant about suicide research, he is a joy to behold. This guy could flat chew scenery.In addition to the infamous wig, you might also notice that MacMurray is wearing a wedding band throughout the film, even though his character is clearly a single man. Wilder and MacMurray stated many times over the years that was simply a mistake and not "caught" until post-production. Expect a chuckle when MacMurray, as the narrator, enviously describes a Spanish style Los Angeles home as costing $30,000 ... probably less than the property taxes would be on that house today. The film originally was to end with MacMurray in the Gas Chamber and Robinson looking on (inset), but this was deemed inappropriate. One last little nugget: early in the film, MacMurray walks out of Robinson's office and past a man sitting on a hallway chair reading a paperback book. That man? Raymond Chandler, in his only on screen appearance.The film is often described as quintessential Film Noir. Another prime example of Film Noir would be The Big Sleep (1946), based on a Raymond Chandler novel, directed by Howard Hawks, and starring Humphrey Bogart and Lauren Bacall. While Film Noir might not be an easily definable term, there are certain elements that must be present. Lighting is key. Shadows must be prevalent. Some type of detective story is usually at the center, and we typically get some poor schlub of a guy being yanked around by the femme fatale. The right "mood" is essential ... as a viewer we know things are headed down the wrong path, but we just can't save the characters from their own poor choices. But neither can we look away. That helpless feeling is a strong indicator that you just watched a terrific Film Noir.
Greetings again from the darkness. Kind of a return to roots for the big green guy. The action scenes are grittier, louder and bigger than in Ang Lee's version ... all with a scaled back, more believable Hulk. This time Edward Norton plays Bruce Banner and Liv Tyler is Betty Ross, his scientific partner and love interest.An unlikely casting decision puts Tim Roth as Hulk's nemesis, Blonsky, and finally as The Abomination. And a very creepy looking Willliam Hurt is the military guy attempting to cover up his mis-deeds. Somehow, Hurt's character has access to every military weapon known to man ... and the authority to use it on a college campus and in the middle of NYC. Hurt looks a bit too much like the new Burt Reynolds. I guess that adds to the list of mutants in the film.Actually, I was impressed with the action scenes ... they were what I had hoped for. Plenty of fighting and chasing and "smashing". The dialogue in the non-action scenes was pretty lame, but that's not really what anyone comes to see.A couple other points of interest: creator Stan Lee gets temporarily juiced off the Hulk's blood, Lou Ferrigno shows up twice - once as a pizza chomping security guard and also as the voice of Hulk, Ironman Tony Stark (Robert Downey, jr) shows up for a scene that sets the stage for "The Avengers" and the late, great Bill Bixby (TV's Hulk) has a creative cameo via TV and "The Courtship of Eddie's Father". Speaking of setting the stage ... watch out for Tim Blake Nelson's character in the sequel.
Greetings again from the darkness. Always hopeful for a taut thriller, especially when set on train, I never imagined that the characters in this one would be so flat out dumb. Most of the fun in a thriller involves one scheming person outfoxing another and the best involve multiple parties. Well, writer/director Brad Anderson ("The Machinist") got the math equation right, but certainly missed out on the intelligence factor of the players.The solid cast include doofus Woody Harrelson and his wife Emily Mortimer, who are Americans traveling on a church mission. They meet their train cabin mates in the charming Eduardo Noriega ("Vantage Point") and the young, quiet Kate Mara ("Shooter"). As seen in the preview, the plot revolves around smuggling heroin through Russia without being caught by detective Ben Kingley and his "partner" Thomas Kretschmann. For those not familiar with Kretschmann, he is a fascinatingly quiet actor seen in "U-571" and "King Kong" and most recently in "Wanted". And please, Sir Kingsley, take a break. This is the third movie I have seen Ben K in over the past 6 weeks. Getting close to John C Reilly territory! The best part of the movie is the amazing photography and cinematography. Shots on the train and around the train are truly extraordinary. The camera certainly captures the forced intimacy of such small spaces and then brings home the vast frozen tundra of the Russian landscape.Despite the coolness of the train sequences, I can't recommend this movie strictly because the characters are all dumb and the execution of the plot just doesn't work. For much better train suspense, see Hitchcok's "Strangers on a Train" and for even more fast moving train thrills (though equally inept script) see "Runaway Train".
Greetings again from the darkness. This classic French film is often referred to as the birth of the heist film. Former blacklisted US director Jules Dassin delivers a tense and unique film with terrific atmosphere, blending Film Noir with the French New Wave.One of the more unusual aspects of the film is that the actual heist is Act II, not Act III - which actually involves a kidnapping and a quest for vengeance. It's easy to view the two Ocean's Eleven films as remakes of this one, and its influence on Stanley Kubrick's The Killing, as well as Tarantino's Reservoir Dogs (the table scene), are fun to analyze.Almost 60 years later, most film classes still discuss the nearly 30 minute heist sequence that involves no dialogue or music (not counting an inadvertent piano key). The teamwork and stress of this sequence is enthralling and worth watching a few times. We somehow find ourselves pulling for these bad guys (criminals, thugs, gangsters, hoods, crooks). I call this the good-bad guy vs bad-bad guy approach.The good-bad guys are played by Jean Servais (Tony), Carl Michner (Jo), Robert Manuel (Mario), and the director Jules Dussin (Caeser, the Italian safecracker). The bad-bad guys (worthy of hissing) are led by Marcel Lupovici (Grutter) who is simply mean to everyone.Paris streets play a huge role, as does the jewelry store set and the simple sound effects that accompany the heist. Also enjoyable is the "casing the place" sequence as the crew plans their process. So many pieces come together to keep this one as a well-deserved entry to the classic film canon.
Greetings again from the darkness. A double award winner at the Sundance Film Festival, this film is based on Daniel Woodrell's novel and is directed by Debra Granik. It's opening sequence slaps the viewer with the bleak unforgivingness of life in the backwoods of the Ozarks. This is land of people that time has passed by.The basic premise of the story is that 17 year old Ree Dolly (played by Jennifer Lawrence) is responsible for raising her brother and sister and caring for her mentally-blank mother while maintaining a mostly positive outlook on the present and future. Reality strikes again when the local sheriff arrives to inform her that her missing, meth-lab running father has an upcoming court date. He used their land and house as collateral for his latest bond. If he fails to show, they will lose their home. Instead of breaking down, Ree pledges to find him and starts out on a hazardous journey, unlike we have seen on screen.This community of mountain people are distrusting of outsiders, but stunningly, are just as paranoid around insiders and even family members. Their way of life seems to depend on pure independence, even though they all seemed intertwined in the same illegal activities and daily quest for survival. Some kind of odd code exists - ask nothing, give nothing and get rid of any obstacles.The driving forces of the story are Ree and her constant hope and courage, and her bond to her dad's only brother, Teardrop played chillingly by John Hawkes. Teardrop tries to toughen up Ree and get her to accept her plight, while Ree constantly shows his there is reason to plow forward.The film is very well written and the local filming brings a harsh reality that was crucial to the film's success. Additionally, I was stunned at the fierceness displayed by Jennifer Lawrence as Ree. Her performance reminded me of my first exposure to the talents of Meryl Streep (The Deer Hunter) and Evan Rachel Wood (Thirteen). Talk about powerful and exciting ... what she did with this role vaults her immediately into a very small group of actresses who can carry a movie with their presence. I am anxiously awaiting her next appearance - a Jody Foster project.I also want to mention the music in the film. The vocalist, Marideth Sisco, is also the vocalist in the living room band who makes an appearance in one scene. Her voice truly captures the balance of hope and acceptance of plight. This is not a movie for everyone, but it is fascinating and hardcore.
Greetings again from the darkness. Here we have Exhibit Number One in proving the theory that no quantity or quality of movie special effects can overcome the lack a good story. Joseph Kosinski (Tron: Legacy) directs his own graphic novel, and the result is a beautiful and impressive looking film that lacks any substance and fails to develop any characters for us to care about.This almost plays as a sci-fi tribute with tips of the cap to at least the following: The Matrix, Moon, Total Recall, Inception, Planet of the Apes, Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind, 2001: A Space Odyssey ... and even Top Gun! Unfortunately, it falls short of all of those except for the stunning visual effects of the patrol drones (George Lucas would be proud) and the beautiful photography of Claudio Miranda (Life of Pi).The most obvious comparison is with Wall-E. This time, Tom Cruise plays the "mop-up crew" along with his assigned spouse played by Andrea Riseborough (very good as Wallis Simpson in W.E., and recently seen in Disconnect). We learn from the initial voice-over (by Cruise, not Morgan Freeman) that Earth was left in ruins after a long battle with aliens. Now the last bit of Earth's resources are being harvested before it is deserted forever.The cast is pretty deep with an extremely upbeat Melissa Leo showing up in the "Hal" role on a low-res video screen, Morgan Freeman and Nikolaj Coaster-Waldau as leaders of the underground surviving humans, Olga Kurylenko (a Bond girl in Quantum of Solace, and currently in To The Wonder), and even stunt-woman extraordinare Zoe Bell making an appearance.All the wonderful toys are present, the look and feel are really something to see, the Jetsons-style home is kinda cool, and we get the ever-present Cruise sprint ... this time in a space suit! Despite all the goodies, this one just seems to fall flat in the ability to draw us in. If you are a sci-fi visual type, you'll get a kick out of it. Otherwise, look elsewhere for an effective team.
Greetings again from the darkness. Sure I have struggled to write film comments for a day or two after seeing other movies. And yes, I have seen many films that were left wide open to interpretation, or even purposefully confusing. This is the first time I have waited nearly a week and still felt overwhelmed by what I saw.Charlie Kaufman is an astounding screenwriter. His stories include "Eternal Sunshine", "Being John Malkovich" and my favorite, "Adaptation". The man is brilliant at exploring and exposing the unexplainable human mind. Here, for the first time, he takes on the added duty of director.Synecdoche defined means a part for the whole. This applies to so many pieces of this Kaufman puzzle ... the most obvious being the actual scale model of a section of NYC. But much more importantly, we are provided bits of a person's life and come away with an understanding of the whole. To paraphrase, Kaufman tells us we are each the stars of our play/life. None of us see ourselves as supporting characters. We actually cast the role of the extras through our friends, neighbors, co-workers and lovers. Yet, we remain the star of the show.Make no mistake. This film is complex, intricate and comes at you from all angles with multiple levels and story lines. As a viewer, you must commit and work very hard to keep up. It won't be for everyone, but it is incredibly rewarding for those who invest. This is quite simply a story about life and people ... it is a story about you ... or me. We try to live our dream but no matter our intentions, the impact of others is what makes a life what it is.I will see this one at least a couple of more times and I can't wait to pick up more of what Mr. Kaufman has offered. One negative is that I would have preferred a separate director. I am a firm believer that Mr. Kaufman's work is more accessible if it is interpreted by another artist. The writer prevented the director from making a few revisions and edits. Just a minor quibble. I can't say much about the acting other than it is purely first class throughout. PS Hoffman, Sarah Morton and Catherine Keener are downright amazing and the supporting cast of Tom Noonan, Diane Wiest, Emily Watson, Jennifer Jason Leigh, Michelle Williams and Hope Davis are top notch.Just remember ... "you are not special".
Greetings again from the darkness. I will admit it upfront. It is very rare that I don't enjoy/appreciate/respect Martin Scorcese films. What I will say to his detractors is this is his best work since "Goodfellas". Yes it is based on the 2002 Hong Kong film entitled "Infernal Affairs", and Scorcese is so respectful that he actually notes this in the closing credits.Prepare for a a no-holds-barred all out blazing explosion of film making! And so much fun to watch. If the "f" word bothers you, stay home. It may rival any Tarantino flick for harsh, but real in-this-world language. If violence bothers you, stay home. There are some moments of extremely brutal and realistic violence and bloodshed. On the other hand, if you are a fan of complex story lines, amazing cinematography, top level acting and crackling dialogue, rush out now to see this film.Oh my ... the acting is as good as it gets (pun intended) with Jack Nicholson as the personification of EVIL as Mob boss Frank Costello. This is a very bad man and Jack is in his element. Sure the guy is a great actor and can pull off fluff like insomnia with Diane Keaton, but this is the Jack that we have loved for decades. He literally spews venom with his lines and facial expressions. Matt Damon, back in his Boston comfort zone (remember "Good Will Hunting") pulls off the role of informant with a truly believable lack of conscience that will hit you in the gut. Now what to say about Leonardo DiCaprio? I promise to never call him "Little Leo" again! He is now a man and flashes the acting maturity that Scorcese has been pushing him towards for a few years. Sure, he steals some mannerisms from DeNiro (watch him flick a cigarette) but his simmering emotions are plastered on his face throughout and trust me when I say, this dude has a LOT of emotion!.As is Scorcese's custom, the supporting actors are also solid, believable and disappear into their roles. A bloated, washed-out Alec Baldwin is remarkable. Martin Sheen is fine and Mark Wahlberg had to be laughing out loud when he first read his lines ... I know I was! Few could pull off three or four of Wahlberg's hilarious lines without sounding like a stand-up comedian instead of a wily, veteran cop. Also fun to watch is relative newcomer Vera Farmiga who falls for both Leonardo and Damon in what is one of the few story lines that could have been better developed.Toss in Scorcese's legendary pacing and camera action, an eclectic soundtrack that somehow combines the Rolling Stones, Van Morrison singing Pink Floyd ("Comfortably Numb"), Badfinger and Dvorcak, and the most complex use of cell phones yet, and you have one amazing film that will keep you glued to the screen. A bit of warning ... there is no good time for a potty break during this 2 1/2 hour film so don't buy the large drink!
Greetings again from the darkness. Darren Aronofsky is quickly joining the elite as the breadth and depth of his films continue to amaze (Pi, Requiem for a Dream, The Fountain). Here, he takes Robert Siegel's script and turns it on its ear. The best decision he made? Standing firm on his choice of Mickey Rourke, rather than Nic Cage. Rourke brings soul to this film that Cage has never even read about.Of course, the parallels between the story and Rourke's real life are well documented and somehow that is no distraction at all ... in fact, it adds to the realism and affect. Rourke's performance cannot be overstated. He is The Ram! Sure, he did a great job with the wrestling scenes, but that's just the tip. Watching him get out of bed, his hulking walk, the labored breathing and the lighting up in the ring ... those are the moments that heighten the performance and, in the end, make this movie so strong.Randy (not Robin!) the Ram is a sweet, gentle, lonely man just trying to figure out how to make a life after all these years. His life begs the question if it is better to have glory days to look back on or to have no glory days at all. It is painful watching him desperately trying to connect with someone ... either his angry, estranged daughter (played well by Evan Rachel Wood) or the tired, re-focused, middle-aged stripper played by Maris Tomei. He doesn't know what he wants, he just wants something.Aronofsky is to be commended for his take on the industry of wrestling. He is quite respectful for these entertainers who work hard, and literally bleed, for their craft. More importantly, he captures the community of wrestlers. These guys care for each other and a bond exists that only they understand. While at an autograph show, Rourke's character catches a glimpse of his future and it's not pretty.Some of my favorite scenes were: Randy and his daughter re-visiting the desolate boardwalk of yesteryear (analogy for Randy); drinking a beer and re-living the 80's with Tomei; and the fascinating backroom walk to his entry into the deli ... treated just like his walk to the ring at a wrestling event! Aronofsky treats much of this in quasi-documentary style, but Rourke's life is shown, warts and all. We feel his pain after a match and after heart surgery ... and as he is shut down by Wood and Tomei. This is not much of a motivational film, but it is fascinating and not to be missed by those who can appreciate an amazing performance. For fun, go home and put in your DVD of Body Heat or Diner ... compare the Mickey Rourke of 25 years ago to the Randy the Ram of that era. Also, gotta love the cool Springsteen song that ends the film.
Greetings again from the darkness. Documentarian James Marsh is a smart filmmaker. Here he has an incredibly engaging and energetic subject and he wisely lets Phillipe Petit (and his cronies) tell the story.An intertwined performance from Messr. Petit (today), film clips and photos of his early years, and insight from his unlikely support group who helped him pull off the "artistic crime of the century" ... a high-wire dance between the twin towers in 1974.Documentaries rarely have the element of surprise on their side, so it is always a challenge to tell the story in a manner that grabs the viewer. Here Phillipe Petit does what he has always done ... he performs for the audience. Even as he pantomimes his actions of over 30 years ago, one can see the young man in his gleaming eyes.The clips of the actual event are much better than the dramatization of the set-up. In fact, some of the home movies of Petit's practice sessions are priceless. However, the closest thing we get to a surprise is the bumbling goofs that make up his support team, save friend JL, who is captivating and emotional.What prevents this one from being great is that we are given very little details on Petit since his amazing event in 1974. I guess we are supposed to read his book.
Greetings again from the darkness. The previous movie version of William Shakespeare's play Much Ado About Nothing was directed in 1993 by Kenneth Branagh, who also directed Thor (2011). This modernized, much simpler version is directed by Joss Whedon, who also directed The Avengers last year. It's difficult to imagine a more oddball movie symmetry than that! Whedon's production plays almost like a home movie, and in a way it is. Filmed at the director's Santa Monica house with a cast featuring mostly a close group of his friends ... those that frequently gather for Shakespeare dinner parties ... this one exudes a certain joy and love of the material from all involved.I have always been more attracted to Shakespeare's comedies than his more famous tragedies. His startling wordsmithing is always filled with an edge and is borne of real personalities we all recognize. Combine that with director Whedon's love of rapid-fire, wise-cracking dialogue and we get something from the ilk of Preston Sturges or Howard Hawks screwball comedies.The banter and battle of wits between Beatrice (Amy Acker) and Benedick (Alexis Denisof) are at the heart of the story. Their flirtations are recognizable as two who doth protest too much ... as if it could hide their mutual attraction. In one of the most pure comedic roles from the pen of Shakespeare comes Dogberry, the detective on the case of the dark conspiracy occurring right under the noses of most characters. Nathan Fillion ("Castle") plays Dogberry in such a manner that he steals every scene in which he appears ... both verbally and physically. He provides some laugh out loud moments.You will recognize some of the others in Whedon's acting troupe: Reed Diamond plays Don Pedro, Clark Gregg as Leonato, and Fran Kranz as Claudio. Newcomer Jillian Morgese plays Hero, the wronged bride-to-be, whose misfortunes lead to the great Dogberry scenes.The temptation here is to say that a very entertaining movie can be made simply, cheaply and quickly (12 days filming). Of course, as wonderful as Amy Acker is, the real star is the story from William Shakespeare ... even in this modernized setting. As we all know, "A rose by any other name would smell as sweet". Whedon and his cronies prove this.
Greetings again from the darkness. John Rambo is back and he is as optimistic and jovial as ever! I realize no one has ever anticipated the next Rambo movie because they couldn't wait to see how the storyline developed, but COME ON ... he is a cobra hunter?? And the skipper of a boat that makes the one in "Apocalypse Now" look like a yacht?? And a blacksmith who forges his own propeller?? OK, those are the most believable parts of this story.After that, we are to believe a handful of god-fearing goody two-shoes are heading into the Burma war zone with only a couple of backpacks? And just to top it off, one of them is a bleached blonde who doesn't bother to chop off her shoulder length hair? Sorry ... the point of Rambo is violence, killing, explosives, etc. There are loads of these things. Sometimes we aren't even sure what is blowing up or why. Or who is dying and who is killing. Some L.A. critic claims to have an accurate body count. One thing is for sure, he doesn't have an accurate body PART count! There are limbs flying throughout most of the movie.If you are after blood and guts and explosions, this one will deliver. If just once, you would like to know why ... don't expect Stallone (actor, writer, director, producer) to let you know. What could have been the coolest part of the movie and a perfect ending is just left dangling for 4 minutes over the closing credits. Who would have been the perfect R. Rambo ... John Rambo's dad? Since he is roughly 60 yrs old, it would have to be a pretty old guy, so most of the best choices are already dead (John Wayne, Robert Mitchum, Lloyd Bridges). The best one I could come up with is Hugh O'Brian ... macho, strong and silent. Sadly, we are cheated out of even that bit of fun.
Greetings again from the darkness. While I really enjoy a good horror movie, I have never been too fond of those that featured unexplained or other-worldly creatures. However, with "Pan's Labyrinth" to his credit, Guillermo del Toro has earned my trust. Supposedly the 1973 British version of this film (Nigel McKeand teleplay) so frightened a young del Toro that it inspired him to become a filmmaker. Here he acts as producer and co-writer, while first timer Troy Nixey directs.What makes this one work is that it takes full advantage of setting and dark tones, rather than over-exposure of the freakish fairies that live in the ash pit. Blackwood Manor is one creepy, yet fantastic mansion that belonged to a famous artist who was killed in the basement. Also, the three leads are very good in their roles. Guy Pearce plays the struggling businessman who gets his 10 year old daughter forced upon him by his ex-wife. Katie Holmes plays Pearce's girlfriend and the interior designer in charge of the mansion re-do. The real gem of the film is Bailee Madison, whom you will remember from Bridge to Teribithia.Putting a cute kid in peril is one of the most over-used tricks in horror films, but here young Sally (Madison) is actually quite brave and rational ... she is trying to solve this mystery without bothering the oh-so-busy adults. As is customary, the dad (Pearce) is clueless and the last to catch on, but there is a very interesting dynamic between Holmes and Madison. Those are the kind of details that make this one worth seeing for all you lovers of horror films. Just remember the second rule of real estate: never buy a mansion named Blackwood.
Greetings again from the darkness. It's been over 50 years since the film's initial release and more than 20 since I last viewed it on the big screen. When Cinemark announced it as part of the Classic Film Series, I circled the date on my calendar. While most movies are best viewed in a theatre setting, no other film absolutely demands such a setting.There are many elements that contribute to the well deserved "classic" label: David Lean's direction, Freddie Young's photography, the star-studded support cast, the historical significance, Maurice Jarre's iconic score, and of course, Peter O'Toole's standout and unusual performance. This is an action-adventure film with up close battle scenes filmed with no CGI aid. The famous shot of Omar Sharif's Sheriff Ali slowly making his initial appearance on the desert horizon is breathtaking on a 60 foot screen. Watching Lawrence's victory dance on top of the train is majestic in the theatre, and the big screen provides the necessary ominous feeling as the Arabs slowly navigate the blowing sands of the Nefud Desert.T.E. Lawrence was a fascinating man, though there has been much debate about the film and his legend. Lawrence's own writings in "Seven Pillars of Wisdom" provided many details used by screenwriters Robert Bolt and Michael Wilson, as well as the writings of American photo-journalist Lowell Thomas ... depicted in the film as Jackson Bentley (Arthur Kennedy). The real life Thomas was looking for a hero and likely sensationalized his story of Lawrence, but most believe the foundation is fairly accurate.While the story of T.E. Lawrence is incredibly interesting, the story in the film is somehow just part of the experience. Director David Lean's movie is a true experience for movie lovers. This was Mr. Lean's middle film of an incredible streak of three ... The Bridge on the River Kwai (1957) and Doctor Zhivago (1965) being the others. Lean insisted on filming on location, rather than in studio despite the nearly four hour run time. This decision drove the cost up, but allowed for the stunning visuals that set it apart.In addition to O'Toole's performance, it is quite exciting to see the dynamic Omar Sharif, the powerful Anthony Quinn (as Auda abu Tayi), the classy Alec Guiness (as Prince Faisal), the kinda creepy Jose Ferrer, the familiar Jack Hawkins and the slightly slimy Claude Rains. Missing from this list is any actress. The movie features exactly zero speaking roles for women.Maybe the only two actors of the era who could have competed with this fabulous landscape were Peter O'Toole and Marlon Brando. Brando was actually first cast as Lawrence, but soon dropped out to star in Mutiny on the Bounty. O'Toole's blue eyes and white robe created quite the contrast to the sandy desert. Speaking of contrast, the two times he admires his reflection in his knife are visual keys to his evolution from God complex to broken man. After attending the premiere, writer Noel Coward told O'Toole, "If you had been any prettier, the film would have been called Florence of Arabia." The movie received 10 Oscar nominations. It walked away with 7 wins including Best Picture, Director, Cinematogapher, and Score. O'Toole lost out to Gregory Peck (To Kill a Mockingbird). Mr. O'Toole has received 8 Best Actor nominations without ever winning. Watching this film (more than once) is a must for any movie lover. The opportunities to view it in a theatre setting are quite rare, so please seize the chance should it present itself. Your four hour commitment will be rewarded with a movie memory you'll never lose.
Greetings again from the darkness. One of the most prolific writer/directors since the end of the studio era, Woody Allen cranks a new script and film out every year. A few are great, while the others fall somewhere between highly entertaining and watchable. None would be considered a true dud. His latest is a bit fluffy and falls comfortably into the watchable category ... with nary a glint of anything more ambitious.The line of actors maneuvering for a role in Mr. Allen's films stretches around the proverbial casting couch. The lineup here is again quite impressive: Colin Firth, Emma Stone, Marcia Gay Harden, Jacki Weaver, Eileen Atkins, Simon McBurney, Catherine McCormack and Hamish Linklater. They each perform admirably, but aren't enough to elevate the somewhat lackluster script. Ms. Stone and Ms. Atkins are especially enjoyable here.Woody mixes his love of magic with his cynical religious views, and blends those with his too frequent older man/younger woman sub-plot. The scenes with Firth and Stone are fine, but their on screen banter would have been better served as Uncle and Niece than awkward rom-com aspirants. Despite this flaw, there remain some excellent lines and moments, plus a hand full of staggering shots from the south of France locale. The wardrobe and cars are stunning ... the film is set in 1928.Screwball comedies are clearly a favorite of Allen's to write, but his direction leans more towards a leisurely pace found in more traditional rom-coms. The mixed genres don't always fit together, even when stacked with a superior cast. Still, it must be noted that even at his least brilliant, Mr. Allen delivers films that are pleasant and watchable. We can live with that as we await his next masterpiece.
Greetings again from the darkness. Hoax or real? Documentary or Mockumentary? Fiction or Stranger than Fiction? Sorry, but I can't answer these questions. A quick Google gives the appearance that the characters and story are true - or at least real. I guess the main argument I would make is that, true or not, the film is entertaining and enlightening either way.It certainly makes a statement regarding the commercialization of art. This includes fads and the power of hype and marketing. I can't really offer up much commentary on the content of the film other than to say Thierry Gueta is a fascinating character, though I have absolutely no interest in owning his "art". I did love Banksky's line about Thierry being more interesting than his work. Couldn't agree more.
Greetings again from the darkness. It's not unusual for an actor or actress to alter their physical appearance for a movie role. Sometimes those changes become the story: Robert DeNiro in Raging Bull and Christian Bale in The Machinist are two that come to mind. Regardless of the transformation or make-up, what really matters is the performance and the character. Just ask Eddie Murphy (Norbit) or Gwyneth Paltrow (Shallow Hal). In The Dallas Buyers Club, we actually get two incredible transformations that lead to two stunning performances.Matthew McConaughey and Jared Leto each lost approximately 40 pounds for their respective roles as Ron Woodroof, the redneck, three-way loving, alcoholic, drug-addicted electrician/rodeo cowboy; and Rayon, the sensitive, street-savvy, would-be transsexual so desperate for a kind word. Their physical appearance will startle you more than once, but is quite effective in getting across the struggles of those infected with HIV virus in the 1980's. The numbers impacted exploded and the medical profession was ill-equipped to properly treat the patients.This is based on a true story and a real life guy (Woodroof) who became a most unlikely beacon of hope for AIDS patients. Woodroof fought the medical industry, Pharmaceutical companies and the government (FDA, DEA, IRS). It's impossible to miss the message and accusations that most of these had a single goal of increasing profits, rather than curing the disease. And that's where the story lags a bit. Michael O'Neill and Dennis O'Hare are the faces of greed and bureaucracy, while Jennifer Garner, Leto, and Griffin Dunne represent the side with a heart. Woodroof seems to be a guy who just doesn't want to die, sees a business opportunity, and even learns a little bit about humanity along the way.There have been numerous other projects that deal with AIDS, including: Philadelphia with Tom Hanks and the recent documentary How to Survive a Plague. This may be the first with a protagonist who is simply unlikeable, despite his passion and strong survival instincts. McConaughey doesn't shy away from the homophobic personality and cruel manner of speech that Woodroof possesses. We never doubt his frustration at those controlling the big picture, but we never really see him connect with those his brash tactics help.McConaughey is on a dream run as an actor right now, and it certainly wouldn't be surprising to see him garner an Oscar nomination. But it would be a mistake to chalk that up to his losing so much weight - he really delivers a character that we won't soon forget. And let's not overlook Mr. Leto, who has been away from acting for 4 years touring with his band. He is a remarkable talent and a true screen presence. Compare this role to his Mark David Chapman in Chapter 27. It's not just the range of weight, but moreso the range in acting that so impresses.Also worth noting here is the outstanding cinematography of Yves Belanger. This movie is shot in a way that brings out the intimacy of the moments, while not losing the big picture. Director Jean-Marc Vallee (The Young Victoria) and co-writers Craig Borten and Melisa Wallack work together for a solid foundation, but it's McConaughey and Leto that we will most remember ... and of course, the pics of the great Marc Bolan on the wall. www.MovieReviewsFromTheDark.wordpress.com
Greetings again from the darkness. I've been writing about "Gray Cinema" for the past few years and the understandable desire of Hollywood to capitalize on the aging population. Take that trend and mix it with new-age buddy pictures like The Hangover and Bridesmaids, and you can at least imagine what director Jon Tuteltaub (the National Treasure movies) and writer Dan Fogelman (the very entertaining Crazy Stupid Love) were attempting to create.The film's poster recalls the glory days of the Rat Pack, so taking this foursome of sixty-something year old childhood buddies to Las Vegas presents many possibilities. There is no shortage of enthusiasm from the four leads: Michael Douglas as Billy, the smooth-talking lifelong bachelor who proposed to his thirty-ish girlfriend at a funeral; Morgan Freeman as Archie, suffocating in a cocoon of family over-protection; Robert Deniro as Paddy, the isolated widow wallowing in grief for the past year; and Kevin Kline as Sam, the stir-crazy Florida stereotype bored with 4:00 dinner parties and his marriage.These top notch actors give it all they have but there is just no rescuing such fluff and lack of substance. The script is frustrating throughout and just gives no credit to an audience that might appreciate even a gag or story line that wasn't obvious from the opening credits. Mary Steenburgen's character provides a brief respite, but the developments are so absurd that neither her character or the story line can be taken seriously.Toss in a bar fight, bikini contest, mandatory viagra jokes, a world class Casino penthouse, an inconceivable party that would be shut down by fire code, and a wasted cameo from 50 Cent ... and you get a lame, flat, mostly unfunny story that barely skims the surface of an endless stream of possibly interesting topics.I'll end by stating that I am a huge fan of Gray Cinema, but my request is that some effort go into the script and production so that viewers are provided with an entertaining and intelligent and respectful experience. There is no need to dwell on the bits of culture that have passed them by or the physical ailments that plague their activities. Luckily, the stellar cast prevents this one from flopping to the level that the script deserves.
Greetings again from the darkness. Fifty years to the day after the tragic assassination of President Kennedy seems like the best time for me to finally write something about Oliver Stone's controversial 1991 film. As a Dallas resident, the hallmark event has never been far removed, either mentally or geographically. I periodically see movies at the Texas Theatre where Oswald was captured. It's impossible to drive downtown and not regularly pass the Texas School Book Depository and Dealey Plaza. The reminders are always present and maybe that's a good thing.When this movie was released, it shook the dust off the story and brought much attention back to the crime that had once seemed so quickly solved. The conspiracy theorists embraced Mr. Stone's work and even those who knew little of the Warren Report were swept up in the details and accusations. It was so easily accepted as an investigative presentation, and it was a way for the people to finally get what they wanted ... the answer to what happened and why.Viewing the film this week again for the first time since 1991, it's understandable why so many were swept up in the frenzy. This is an expert presentation of a staggering number of theories and details and characters. With a run time well over three hours, the only opportunities for an exhale come during the somewhat lame interactions between New Orleans District Attorney Jim Garrison (Kevin Costner) and his wife (Sissy Spacek). Othewise, it's a very well written parade of movie stars that is exceptionally photographed and expertly edited. Newsreel footage, reenactments, and dramatizations of events successfully create a mind puzzle. The film grabs you and does not let go ... and this is 22 years after release and 50 years after the assassination.Now don't mistake that praise for believability. While Stone's approach has been attacked from all sides, he did publish an annotated script "proving" his details. Still, his blending of theories is staggering: the military, the CIA, the FBI, LBJ, the Mafia, the pro- and anti-Castro types, the Russians, and even a likely corrupt businessman. The latter is Clay Shaw, played with evil enjoyment by Tommy Lee Jones in a role worthy of a movie unto itself.In Stone's version, Garrison is the voice of truth. He's the guy that doesn't buy off on the Warren Report. In fact, this movie version of Garrison represents us as the viewer ... the citizens who want to believe our government, but are too rational to accept things spoon fed to us. This isn't so much a courtroom drama or investigative report, it's more like a data dump. Stone is delivering all of the little doubts in one fell swoop. In other words, with all of these possibilities and unexplained events, how could it not be a conspiracy? Was it a coup d'etat with LBJ waiting in the wings? That makes sense if you believe defense contractors were unwilling to sit quietly as JFK pulled out of Vietnam. Was Oswald a patsy as he claimed? That argument can certainly be supported. More than one gunman? 5.6 seconds, a tree in the eye line, and smoke from the grassy knoll can lead to that conclusion. The movie serves as our emotional outburst at not knowing why this happened and who was responsible. We like our mysteries solved and this one apparently never will be.Roger Ebert once said that facts are for print and emotions are for film. Oliver Stone seems to excel at the latter. He gives us permission to be paranoid. He takes extreme dramatic license with two extended soliloquies: Donald Sutherland as "X" (Fletcher Prouty) and Kevin Costner as Garrison in the courtroom. Neither of these events are probable, in fact the courtroom scene is borne from numerous Garrison speeches, quotes and book passages over the years.This 50th anniversary has brought at least three new JFK inspired films: Parkland, Killing Kennedy, and Letters To Jackie. Three very different approaches to the man and the event that changed the world ... it changed our perceptions and our expectations. Oliver Stone's film gave us permission to do so out loud.
Greetings again from the darkness. What a terrific story and interesting film to watch! One of my favorite overlooked films of the past five years is "Millions", also directed by Danny Boyle (best known for "Trainspotting"). The screenplay is by Simon Beaufoy ("Miss Pettigrew Lives for a Day" and "The Full Monty") and is based on Vikas Swarup's novel "Q&A". Not really sure how to describe this other than a classic love story wrapped in a rags-to-riches story of survival.We get a glimpse of India's underbelly without it being a guilt-ridden social statement. The movie is actually three parts interwoven beautifully. The working class pauper is having a nice run of success on "Who Wants to be a Millionaire". Of course his success brings with it the assumption of cheating. As he is being wickedly tortured and questioned by the police, we are provided flashbacks into Jamal's childhood which explain each of the answers he "miraculously" knows.The only actor most American audiences will recognize is Irfan Khan as the sadistic police interrogator. Mr. Khan will be remembered as the wise father in "The Namesake". Despite that, the acting is superb and we are treated to story lines of our three main characters at three different stages in their life.This is purely expert film-making with a creative and multi-faceted story. I can't recommend this enough to anyone who enjoys interesting entertainment and appreciates Mr. Boyle's expertise.
Greetings again from the darkness. Writer/director John Michael McDonagh and actor Brendon Gleeson re-team (The Guard, 2011) in what can be viewed as one giant leap for both filmmaker and actor. Mr. McDonagh is immensely talented and seems to be a natural at keeping his viewers unsure of what's coming.Set and filmed in a western Irish coastal town, the film has a most unusual first scene, including an acknowledgment of such as the priest (Gleeson) says "Certainly a startling opening line". This occurs in the confessional with an extreme close-up as the unseen (by us) parishioner then says "I'm going to kill you Father". With Sunday week as the promised deadline, the movie follows the Priest with a placard for each day, as he makes his way through the maze of local town characters. He also receives a visit from his daughter (Kelly Reilly), fresh off a suicide attempt (he was married prior to joining the priesthood).The film bounces from very dark humor to extreme philosophical and theological discussions between the town folks and the priest. We quickly learn what a good man he is, and struggle to understand why the locals flash such vitriol his way. The Catholic Church, and all that implies these days, certainly plays a key role, but more than that, this is about the make-up and character of people.This is not the place to go into detail about the story, as the film is best unwrapped and interpreted by each viewer. What can be said is that this is exceptional filmmaking: it's well directed, beautifully photographed, superbly acted, has a terrific script, and encourages much discussion.
Greetings again from the darkness. I am always amazed, amused and somewhat satisfied when a writer gathers up multiple stereotypes, massages the conflict and dialogue, and emerges with a script that captures interest and holds attention. Writer/director Raymond De Felitta has done just that with working class Italian New Yorkers.All story lines revolve around the secrets each of the family members keep from the others. Sure, we all understand that two-way communication and trust create a much stronger and healthier family, but sometimes, it's just not that simple.Andy Garcia plays the head of this secretive bunch and he sets the stage with two whoppers. The first is his slinking off to acting classes while chasing his lifelong dream of becoming an actor - like his inspiration, Marlon Brando. To cover this one up, he tells his wife (Julianna Margulies) that he is off to another poker game, unaware that she interprets this as code for his having an affair.They have a daughter (Dominik Garcia-Lorido) who has lost her college scholarship and is saving money to re-enroll by working (secretly) as a stripper. Their odd ball son (Ezra Miller), who believes he is too smart to attend classes, develops an online fetish habit that ends up VERY close to home.In most films, this would be plenty of ammunition to create havoc among the players. Not here. Garcia's second, and much larger secret, throws this dysfunctional family into a tailspin - and he somehow is the last to realize. Emily Mortimer, Steven Strait and Alan Arkin all provide strong support to the story and this "family".Mr. De Felitta explored some of these family topics in "The Thing About My Folks", but here he is working with his own script. The balance between comedy, conflict and insight is actually very good; though, the New Yorker habit of loud mealtime conversation is somewhat discomforting for this southern boy. Still, I have nothing but positive things to say about how the stereotypes end up providing self-realization to each of the characters, and even more importantly, an understanding of what their family really is. Good stuff here.
Greetings again from the darkness. Edward Zwick has spent the past 8 years concentrating mostly on producing with the exception of the ultra-Hollywood "The Last Samurai". Zwick has a strong resume that includes "Legends of the Fall", "Glory" and "About Last Night". With "Blood Diamond" we get a very intense and interesting story that falls short of being great due to the Hollywood slickness applied.Leonardo DiCaprio follows up his Oscar-worthy performance in "The Departed" with a wonderful portrayal of a diamond smuggler in South Africa. For his character, Archer, the film is his last shot at salvation and it results in self-discovery and soul redemption thanks to his "partnership" with Djimon Hounsou (so great in "In America" and "Gladiator") and his connection to an American journalist played by the beautiful Jennifer Connelly. Connelly is the main misstep in the film because we just can't buy her as the "in the thick of the action" type. Her character supposedly jumps from one world crisis to the next, but she comes across much more as the day spa treatment girl. Hounsou, on the other hand, is so real it frightened me at times. No one plays the angry man on a mission better than he.Much talk will be made of DiCaprio's accent, but it is pretty solid most of the time and only fades out in a few scenes. His accent should not make or break the film for anyone, as it is a terrific story with amazing scenery and a great deal of intensity throughout the two and a half hour running time. I may have never seen a movie with more people gunned down ... especially innocent villagers. It is a moving story based on the reality of the diamond importing business.
Greetings again from the darkness. Of course I saw this one a couple of times when it was first released in 1997. Having only watched it once since, I was happy to hear it would get a re-release on its 15th anniversary ... even if the marketing hook was the post-production 3D. My thought was with James Cameron working his technical magic, the 3D would be fine, and maybe even add to the spectacle of the sinking ship. After all, he was the mastermind behind Avatar, which with Hugo, are the only two films (in my opinion) that haven't been weakened with 3D technology.Unfortunately, I can't overstate my disappointment in the 3D for Titanic. The colors and lighting are destroyed. When we first see young Rose (Kate Winslet) arrive to board the majestic ocean liner, her lavender hat appears almost gray through the 3D glasses. And later, the crimson Renault, where Rose and Jack (Leonardo DiCaprio) get to "know" each other, appears dull and darkened. Additionally so many face shots are darkened, rather than illuminated by the beautiful fixtures that adorn Titanic. I was so saddened to see such dullness on top of such greatness. Sure, there were a couple of times where the 3D gave a boost to a special effect, but the film is so beautifully made and such a technical marvel, that the impact is minimal to the positive.What I will say is that despite my frustration with the technology, I do hope a new generation is introduced to the film. Personally, I am no fan of the love story between Jack and Rose. However, it is such a delight to see the young, eager versions of Little Leo and Kate as they go about their antics. They were 22 and 21 respectively during filming, and we now know them as mature actors and major movie stars. That wasn't the case when Titanic first premiered.The real genius of this film is two fold: the story-telling and the technical achievement. Gloria Stuart stars as 101 yr old Rose and she is used to perfection in telling the personal story of Titanic. Her love story with Jack allows director Cameron to show off the amazing ship from all angles ... first class, third class, dining rooms and engine rooms. She also allows the viewer to connect with the characters on a personal level. The technical aspect is even more astounding. Sets, models, CGI, and documentary footage are all blended to form a cohesive presentation of one of the most dramatic events of the past 100 years.Here are a few notes of interest regarding the movie and those involved. The movie was number one at the box office for 15 consecutive weeks and grossed more than $1.8 billion ... a record that stood until Cameron's Avatar eclipsed it. Cameron was already an established sci-fi director with Terminator I & II and Aliens, but he almost had the plug pulled by the production company due to cost overruns. Matthew McConaughey was the producer's first choice for Jack, but Cameron held firm for DiCaprio. The elderly couple hugging each other in bed as the ship sinks were based on the Strauss' who owned the Macy's department store chain. And yes, there were Astor's and Guggenheim's onboard when it went down. If you have seen the movie before, pay particular attention to the secondary characters ... the wardrobes and acting are tremendous: Francis Fisher as Rose's mother, Karthy Bates as the "Unsinkable" Molly Brown, Billy Zane as the fiancé, David Warner as his henchman, Bernard Hill as the Captain, Victor Garber as the architect, and Jonathan Hyde as the sleazy ship owner. Also catch Suzy Amis in one of her last acting jobs before becoming Mrs. James Cameron ... she plays the granddaughter to "old" Rose.This is an historic film version of an historic event and should be seen by all movie lovers. Some of it is a bit hokey, but if you doubt the technical achievement, compare it to A Night to Remember, the 1958 version of the Titanic story.
Greetings again from the darkness. We are all familiar with the phrase "All the World's a Stage", and director Joe Wright and writer Tom Stoppard twist the phrase into "All the Stage is the World" in their re-imagining of Leo Tolstoy's literary classic. With a bold and ambitious vision, the story plays out mostly within the confines of a theatre ... utilizing not just the stage, but the rafters, backstage and all nooks. This is pulled off in a most operatic manner with heavy production, remarkable sets and costumes, and the use of curtains and doors for a change of scene. Additionally, most of the actors move like dancers and the dialogue delivery borders on musicality.Tolstoy's story has been adapted for the screen in more than two dozen versions, including two from screen legend Greta Garbo. Who better to take on the role of Anna than Keira Knightley, the ultimate period actress of our generation. It's her third film with Joe Wright (Atonement, Pride and Prejudice) and by far, the least traditional in presentation. This version focuses on the affair between Anna and Vronsky (Aaron Taylor-Johnson from Kick-Ass), and her determination to throw aside her standing in Russian high-society ... and even give up her son.We do gets bits and pieces of the other story lines: Oblonsky (Matthew Macfadyen) provides some comic relief from the start despite his extra-marital wanderings from his wife (Kelly Macdonald); the stoic determination of the bureaucrat Karenin (Jude Law) as he insists on maintaining the proper illusion; and the down-to-earth landowner Levin (Domhnall Gleeson, Brendan's son) with his pursuit of perfect farming and the beautiful Kitty (Alicia Vikander). Some viewer disappointment creeps in when we realize that Levin's story is minimized for the torrid love affair of Anna and Vronsky. Levin's story is allowed to sneak outside the theatre setting ... presumably since he is the only character living in the real world.Tolstoy's powerful story is stymied to some degree by the lack of sympathy we feel for Anna ... while we certainly understand her lack of connection to the cold Karenin, we never sense more than a physical attraction and unreasonable wish between she and Vronsky. The strength of the story stems from Anna's knowing willingness to surrender her place in society for the sake of what should be true love. When one of the society ladies states she could forgive Anna for breaking the law, but not for breaking the rules, we fully comprehend what a ridiculous state those in high society exist.It's difficult to imagine a wide acceptance of this unique presentation; however, the technical aspects of the film deserve much Oscar consideration - cinematography, set design, costumes, etc are all first rate. And Keira Knightly proves again that costume dramas are where she is at her best.
Greetings again from the darkness. If not for a friend's recommendation, I probably would have avoided this one on the basis of writer/director Nicole Holofcener's last film, Friends with Money. I found that to be a miserable film filled with miserable people. This one, on the other hand, is a wonderful film filled with miserable people! OK, that is a slight simplification, but it is an extremely well written story that showcases the imperfections of people, social situations and society as a whole. Sometimes it seems the harder we try, the worse things turn out. Such is the life of Catherine Keener's character. She and her husband (Oliver Platt) run a furniture resale shop. She carries this enormous burden around because they stock the store by buying cheap from grandchildren stuck with death's aftermath ... and then reselling to arrogant metrosexual types who live for kitsch and cool. Keener spends her time trying to scrape off the guilt by doling out money and doggie bags to the homeless.There are many interesting characters in the film and this always adds to the fun. Rebecca Hall (uptight Vicky from Vicky Cristina Barcelona) plays the dutiful granddaughter taking care of her 90 plus year old monster granny played colorfully by Ann Morgan Guilbert. Many will remember Ms. Guilbert as Dick Van Dyke's neighbor in the early 60's sitcom. Her key job in the film is to get closer to dying so that Keener and Platt can take over her apartment and expand - the ultimate dream for a NYC resident. Hall's character is the budded flower - the one just waiting to bloom as soon as the rain hits (granny dies).The mean-spiritedness of the grandmother is matched only by the vile spewing from Amanda Peet, Hall's less than caring and trustworthy sister who is obsessed with tanning ... and the girl who "stole" her boyfriend. Peet's character often just says what she is thinking which adds dimension to most conversations! There are some terrific scenes and moments and characters in the film, but the best written scene is the dinner party. Keener and Platt invite Hall, Peet and Guilbert over in an guilt-easing attempt to be civil while waiting for Granny to kick the bucket. The scene takes on an entirely new life when Keener/Platt's daughter makes an appearance. Sarah Steele plays Abby as a smart, insightful teenager. Oh, and she is also mad at the world and bitter about her complexion and slightly pudgy build (which makes finding the right jeans a quest). The whole scene is one uncomfortable statement or moment after another. Beautiful to watch.I could go on and on about the intricacies of the characters and their relationships with each other and outsiders, but what matters is that the film is well written and well executed. It is not some sappy, save the world rom-com, but rather a character study of what goes on in real life and in real moments. Plenty of humor, but also plenty of truth. Amazing how often those two go hand in hand.
Greetings again from the darkness. Every bit as good as the first one, and far superior to 12 ... the only thing missing is the excitement of a new franchise. Director Steven Soderbergh and all the familiar smirking faces are back, as is the colorful wardrobe.With a look and feel very similar to the ultra-cool first one with Sinatra and Martin, Thirteen is back at home in Vegas where the franchise belongs. This time the revenge is aimed at mega-sleaze ball Al Pacino, who screws over Ellott Gould for his share of the hottest new casino in Vegas. The boys aren't happy about this and, of course, what comes next is an elaborate plan that only someone as genius as George Clooney and Brad Pitt could truly comprehend. Anyway, it is fun to watch Pacino do what he loves ... chew his scenes with vigor.The other new face is that of Ellen Barkin, in her return to the big screen after her billionaire divorce. I for one, enjoyed having her sit and home counting money and cringed to hear she would be back on screen. Luckily she is given little to do other than wear a tight dress and act drugged around Matt Damon.The smarm is on full display as Pitt and Clooney continue to finish each other's sentences and the best scenes utilize Soderbegh's quick edits to capture the fine timing of all boys and their assignments. Even Andy Garcia is back and joins in the revenge plot with a twist of his own. As is customary, each of the boys gets their own little moment of spotlight, some to more success than others. It is nice to see Vincent Cassell (the only good thing about 12) back, if only for a brief visit.Overall, this hits what it swings at, and is nothing more or nothing less than we would expect from these pros who show up every three years to have some fun and get paid. Undoubtedly, there will be another in the series, as they have the process down to a science and they receive a nice pay day. Small price to pay for a fun popcorn flick.
Greetings again from the darkness. "And the Oscar goes to ... Helen Mirren". It appears the talented and charming star of such films as "Calendar Girls" and "Gosford Park" may just hear those words in 2007. She captures the spirit, look and nuances of Queen Elizabeth II in this behind the scenes peek at the clashes between the government and monarchy in the few days after Princess Di's death.There could have been no better selection for director than full Brit, Stephen Frears who is known for such fine films as "Mrs. Henderson Presents" and "Dangerous Liasons". We never doubt for a moment, Frears love of his homeland nor his insight into the public confusion in regards to the royal snubbing of Diana and the citizens in those first painful days. He does make a bit of a hero out of newly elected Labour Prime Minister Tony Blair (an effective, if slightly over the top performance by Michael Sheen). Blair does speak many of the lines that were in the thoughts of the world at that time ... such as "Somebody save these people from themselves".By mixing in real news video and grainy recreations of the Royal Family, Frears does a nice job of putting us back in 1997. Casting for the Royal Family is completed by Sylvia Syms as The Queen Mother, James Cromwell as a slightly daft Prince Philip and Alex Jennings as a very caring a weak Prince Charles, who seems to understand the issues, but lacks the back bone to make it happen.This is without a doubt Helen Mirren's moment to shine and she is downright chilling at times. How odd to see an authoritative figure who really only seems at ease and happy when walking her well trained dogs. Fifty years of putting up a front in which you believe so strongly, but is so out of touch with one's world is quite a burden. Of course, as an American I am only an outside observer to the whole situation, but I do feel Mr. Frears captures the chasm between the masses and the Monarchy.
Greetings again from the darkness. Can't quite put my finger on it. Amazing action and terrific special effects, stunning sound and a decent story that compliments the previous installments ... but still something is missing.First off, the casting is very odd throughout - Christian Bale as John Connor, Sam Worthington (in place of first choice Josh Brolin), bland Bryce Dallas Howard (replacing Claire Danes), Helena Bonham Carter (seriously??), Jane Alexander (in an action film??), and Common (with a competent scowl). Best choice is Anton Yelchin as Kyle Reese. Mr. Yelchin is having a nice summer with Terminator and Star Trek (where he is even better).Next, director McG is an odd choice. Which of the Charlie's Angels films qualified him for this? Actually, most of his work is decent, but his work with the actors left much to be desired.Thirdly, why the heck is Sam Worthington on screen more than Christian Bale? Just a wild guess, but I suppose there was quite a disparity in their paychecks!Can't help but get a kick out the tie-ins to previous installment - Linda Hamilton's voice on tape, re-treads of famous lines and even CGI Arnold making an appearance. The machinery and effects continue to amaze, but this time the humans just don't hold up.
Greetings again from the darkness. Sometimes acting elevates material to a level far beyond what a film might have otherwise deserved. Such is the case with this based-on-a-true-story effort from co-writers and co-directors Olivier Nakache and Eric Toledano. Despite the elements of truth, the core material here is a sentimental tale that we have seen before. Francois Cluzet (Tell No One) as Philippe and Omar Sy as Driss turn it into an extremely entertaining story with characters we quickly connect with.Philippe is a wealthy quadriplegic widower who is interviewing candidates for a caregiver. Driss is a recently released from jail street hustler who is just trying to qualify for state benefits by going on the required interviews. Philippe is struck by Driss' direct approach and energy level, and chooses Driss over the room full of more qualified types.The rest of the movie is really a buddy flick where the polar opposites bring much to the other. Philippe slyly gets Driss to use his sharp mind a bit more effectively, and Driss taps into Philippe's hidden lust for life. Though the supporting cast is fine, the film's best scenes are those featuring Philippe and Driss.This is a film from France and much as been made of the filmmakers' decision to change the caregiver from the real life Arab to a more cinema-friendly Black man. The Earth, Wind & Fire dance may be a bit too much, but I choose to believe the casting of Omar Sy was the deciding factor, not his race. He lights up the screen and draws us right into his world and his choices - some of which are better than others.The film shares much with The Sea Inside, Scent of a Woman, and The Diving Bell and the Butterfly, but this one has much more humor and bonding than any of those. It doesn't shy away from the melodramatic moments and isn't above trying to generate tears in viewers. There will be a US re-make of this one, but the two lead actors here (especially Mr. Sy) make this one worth seeing.
Greetings again from the darkness. The film is based on the controversial best selling novel by Kathryn Stockett. It was controversial because it is the story of Jim Crow-era maids written by a white woman. Yes, the book is actually the fictionalized story of a white woman getting black maids to discuss their lives as maids for white folks. Rather than get into some politically correct dissertation on the book, movie or story, I will only comment on the film itself ... this very entertaining movie that also manages to deliver a timeless message.Let me first start by saying that this movie is incredibly well acted. It is quite rare to have so many developed characters in one movie. There are some characters we immediately connect with, while others draw our ire each time their face appears. The script and these fine actresses utilize humor to point out the shameful behavior of those who saw themselves as superior. The humor doesn't soften the ignorance or abuse, but it does make the film infinitely more watchable and entertaining. Please know this is not a documentary.Ms. Stockett's novel has a very loyal following in addition to the naysayers. A two hour film must, of course, take short cuts and trim story lines. Still the key elements are present. Based in Jackson, Mississippi during Governor Ross Barnett's term we see the social shark, Hilly Holbrook (Bryce Dallas Howard), in her full glory of ignorance, entitlement and superiority. We see her minions and followers emulating her moves while trying to gain her approval.The story takes off when Skeeter (Emma Stone) graduates from Ole Miss and returns home and takes a job at the local newspaper. Possessing observation skills and humanity that her lifelong friends can't comprehend, Skeeter desperately wants to tell a story from the perspective of the maids. As expected, the maids are hesitant, but Aibileen (Viola Davis) does relent. The stories begin to flow and soon the robust Minny (Octavia Spencer) joins in. Others soon follow their lead and Skeeter's education goes to an entirely new level.That's really all of the story I care to discuss. The brilliance of this one is actually in the details ... individual scenes and moments of acting genius by most of the cast. In addition to those mentioned above, Jessica Chastain plays Celia, the "white trash" outcast who so desperately wants to be allowed back into the girls' club. Ms. Chastain was seen a few weeks ago in the fabulous "Tree of Life" in quite a different role ... I would venture to say no actress will have two roles of such variance this year. Also, Allison Janney plays Skeeter's cancer-stricken mother, and Sissy Spacek is Hilly's mother who gets tossed aside before she is ready to go! The great Cicely Tyson makes a brief appearance as Constantine, Skeeter's childhood maid who was done so wrong after 29 years of service. Mary Steenburgen has a couple of scenes as a big NYC book publisher.As a said, this is pure acting heaven, but I must single out Viola Davis and Octavia Spencer. Viola is so powerful at the beginning and end of the film, and Ms. Spencer is a force of nature during the middle. This movie is really their story and these two ladies make it fascinating, painful and a joy to behold. They both deserve recognition at Oscar time.There are so many fantastic details to the film. At times, it is like watching a classic car show ... the late 50's and early 60's models are works of art. The wardrobe, hair and make-up are perfect in setting up the class differentials. The TV and radio segments provide context and timing with the deaths of Medger Evers and JFK. Even the books on Skeeter's shelf make a statement: To Kill a Mockingbird, Huck Finn, Native Son, and Gone With the Wind.This story takes place 50 years ago and director Tate Taylor does an admirable job of bringing Stockett's novel to the big screen. Mr. Taylor is a longtime friend of Ms. Stockett's and was quite fortunate to get the directing rights. He doesn't disappoint. Sure the story is a bit glossy at times ... it is geared towards the masses. If you are looking for more depth, there are numerous documentaries available on the Civil Rights movement. If you are seeking a very entertaining movie that uses humor to tell a story and send a message, then this one's for you.
Greetings again from the darkness. Surely it's a coincidence that Disney Studios has released this movie just a few months ahead of the 50th anniversary of the classic Mary Poppins film. Regardless of the promotional angle, the story of Walt Disney (played by Tom Hanks) going all out to woo stuffy Brit writer PL Travers (Emma Thompson)actually turns out to be a well made and pretty interesting story of two stubborn people butting heads. Even better is a behind the scenes glimpse of the creative process of bringing the Travers book(s) to the big screen.Director John Lee Hancock is the perfect fit with his track record of glossy, feel-good, inspired by true life stories with The Blind Side and The Rookie. We never lose sight that this is a Disney production of a Disney story. The only Disney blemish shown is a quick shot of him stubbing a cigarette in an ashtray. Mr. Disney was an expert at hiding his smoking habit from the public ... well at least until he died from lung cancer in 1966, a mere two years after the premiere of Mary Poppins. Mostly Walt is depicted as working diligently to provide the trust and security that Travers sought in protecting her most precious flying nanny.The real star here is Emma Thompson's portrayal of Travers. Her desperate need for money is mentioned once, but the story is more concerned with her innate need to protect the legacy of her story ... no animation, no mean Mr Banks, no Dick Van Dyke, and no silly songs. Watching her interact with the songwriting Sherman brothers (Jason Schwartzman, BJ Novak) and the Disney screenwriter played by Bradley Whitford is the most fun this movie has to offer. Her "no, no, no" mindset is quite frustrating for the quite successful Disney creative team. The armchair psychology is really where the movie falters a bit. Watching Walt struggle to mesmerize Travers with his Disney magic feels a bit forced, and when combined with numerous flashbacks to her childhood leave the audience way ahead of figuring out the key to her heart and mind.Once the daddy issues come to light, we get Hanks' best scene in the film. As he finally connects with Travers by laying bare his childhood (and fatherly) challenges, he eloquently explains the importance of imagination and storytelling for both children and adults. A desire to re-write or re-imagine our childhood seems to be at the core of many adults. It seems many dwell on the negative aspects of childhood, and even here, Travers' dad (Colin Farrell) may be the nicest alcoholic who ever inspired their kid to be a writer.PL Travers (born Helen Lyndon Goff) wrote 8 Mary Poppins books between 1934 and 1988, but was so unhappy with the film version that she never agreed to a sequel and it wasn't until the 1990's when she agreed to a stage version (no Americans allowed!). She passed away in 1996 at the age of 96, and the actual recordings played over the closing credits show just how well Ms. Thompson captured the strong will of the author.
Greetings again from the darkness. You have to hand it to Wes Anderson ("The Royal Tenenbaums"). He certainly explores facets of personalities that most never really give much consideration. Watching these three dysfunctional brothers on their journey to no particular salvation is an absolute marvel.The parallels to real life notwithstanding, Owen Wilson gives one of his best performances and reminds us that there is more to his talent than the mindless muck he so often associates with. Adrien Brody is the brother who just can't let go of their deceased father, and co-writer Jason Schwartzman is just perfect in his role. Certainly, I would encourage you to see the film prior to anyone spoiling the details for you, because as with life ... the joy is in the journey! Also, special thanks to Wes for including the under-appreciated Stones' song "Play with Fire".
Greetings again from the darkness. Making Romantic Comedies that women love and men can tolerate is very difficult. Writer/director Nancy Meyers has become the most successful female director in Hollywood for this genre. Unfortunately her films' appeal always lean toward the female perspective and rank high on the cringe factor for men. Examples include Something's Gotta Give, The Holiday and What Women Want. Compare this work to that of Nora Ephron's When Harry Met Sally, You've Got Mail and, Julie and Julia. Actually there is little comparison. Ephron understands how adults think and Meyers is focused on women's fantasies.Still, Meyers has tapped into the female psyche and delivers what they want. Here the great and beautiful and highly successful Meryl Streep is pursued and coveted by both Alec Baldwin and Steve Martin. Oh yeah, Baldwin is a successful lawyer and Martin a successful architect. Wouldn't quite fulfill the fantasy if one of the pursuers worked at a bowling alley, eh?Comedy ensues when adultery, lying and alcohol and drugs become involved. Nothing funnier than the topics that destroy people's lives. I tend to give viewers a bit more credit. Most already understand that people don't shrivel up when they get divorced or turn 55. Life goes on and continues to blossom, if you work at it - just like when you are 25.On the bright side, Streep and Baldwin are very good in their roles. There are some very well written scenes and Streep is such a master that she makes EVERY one of her scenes a bit better than it otherwise would be. Steve Martin is given little to do other than a stupid skit in the car with a self-help disc on getting over a divorce (2 years later) and a failed bit with web cam where Streep helps him clean out his wardrobe.Supporting work from John Krasinski (The Office), Lake Bell and an over the top Rita Wilson add the elements you would expect. There is even an homage paid to The Graduate - possibly an admission by Ms. Meyers that her movie on adultery is far less than the gold standard.
Greetings again from the darkness. The Western genre has always appealed to me. I love the clear division between good and bad. Heroes and Villains face-off and the good guys usually win, thereby protecting those too weak to protect themselves. TV had an impressive string of popular westerns: The Rifleman, Maverick, The Big Valley, Rawhide, Bonanza, and Gunsmoke.One of the most popular got it's start on the radio in 1933: The Lone Ranger. When it hit TV in 1949, the great Clayton Moore donned the mask and badge, accompanied by Jay Silverheels as Tonto. Though they filmed a couple of movies, they were best known on the small screen. Then in 1981, The Legend of the Lone Ranger was released in theatres. It was directed by William Fraker and starred Klinton Spilsbury. If you have never seen it ... Mr. Fraker never directed another movie and Mr. Spilsbury never acted again. Enough said.Thirty-three years later, producer Jerry Bruckheimer, director Gore Verbinski and mega-star Johnny Depp have teamed up for a re-imagined Tonto and the Lone Ranger story. Yes, that is the proper order since this is mostly the story of Tonto, told by Tonto, with the camera focused on Tonto (Depp). There is very little respect for the roots of the story, and that's probably because it would not be politically correct these days to have a subservient Comanche following the orders of a masked white man.We first meet an aging Tonto as the "Noble Savage" in a 1933 Old West traveling museum. This approach reminds me of the far superior Little Big Man featuring Dustin Hoffman. Tonto proceeds to tell a young boy his version of history. We are never really sure if this is a tall tale or just a commentary on how our memory recalls events solely from our own perspective. Tonto's character is given a full backstory, but John Reid, the square and square-jawed prosecutor who Tonto mentors into becoming the Lone Ranger (played by Armie Hammer) is presented as a naive buffoon. Reid's courageous brother Dan is played by James Badge Dale, and the bad guys are played by Tom Wilkinson (Cole, the train baron), and William Fichtner (Butch Cavendish, the notorious outlaw who wiped out the Rangers).It seems apparent that Verbinski was striving to create the next Pirates of the Caribbean franchise. The template is familiar ... lots of action and wise-cracking, replete with the newest caricature in the Johnny Depp repertoire. Though Depp has many critics, I am not one. To me, he is a modern day Red Skelton, and I admire the nuances of his Captain Jack Sparrow, Wily Wonka, Mad Hatter, and of course, Edward Scissorhands. Tonto is another feather in his cap (so to speak) and his decision to base the look on Kirby Sattler's painting "I Am Crow" adds a stark look along with fodder for comedy.Many film critics have been bashing the production - some even before the film's release. In this day of full information, we all are aware of the battle between the filmmakers and the studio. The final product does in fact wear the scars of entirely too many writers and budget mismanagement and limitations that come with the Disney brand. What should have been a perfect fit (ultimate good guy Lone Ranger) turned into a jumbled mess at times. The 2 1/2 hour movie easily could have been a full hour shorter. Maybe building two new locomotives worked great for realism, but was tough on the budget. With so few young movie-goers even aware of the Lone Ranger, creative freedom to re-imagine the character makes sense, but making him a klutzy sidekick probably doesn't. So what we get are pre-release headlines telling us the film is a bomb. I find that unfair. It certainly appeared that most of the audience I was part of enjoyed the movie, though there were cracks about how long it was.There are some very impressive segments within the film and having Rossini's William Tell Overture playing over the heart-pounding climax adds a level of fun that most movies don't have. So while I fully agree that the movie is much too long, the script should have been tightened, and more respect paid to the main character, it seems highly likely that the movie will be remembered much more fondly than film critics would have us believe.
Greetings again from the darkness. Had been looking forward to this one because of the unique source material with a twist on the traditional western revenge. Somehow Josh Brolin provided a brooding, yet interesting character despite being surrounded by ridiculous ideas, amateurish directing, a boring story and some atrocious supporting acting. This one simply falls flat.While Brolin deserves the benefit of the doubt ... I am sure his vision was better than director Jimmy Hayward's ... there is no explanation for the "super weapon" or the "love interest". The super weapon is explained as an Eli Whitney invention, while there is just no excuse for Megan Fox and her cardboard performance as the hooker with a heart only for Hex.The other thing that seems pretty basic is that revenge story needs a strong basis for a burning need to get even. Here we get a weak bad guy played by John Malkovich. Malkovich's character kills Hex's family AFTER Hex had killed Malkovich's son. Oh yeah, almost forgot, Jonah Hex can communicate with the dead. Which is good, because there won't be any live people in the audience once word spreads on how lousy this movie is. Such a shame.
Greetings again from the darkness. Hopefully you aren't expecting yet another in the seemingly endless stream of unadulterated praise fests for Alfonso Cuaron's critically beloved and audience pleasing Gravity. While the mass appeal is certainly understandable, I've never been one to sit back and accept the surface value.There are two elements for discussion here: the visually stunning and technical marvel from a filmmaking perspective, and the emotionally-manipulating and somewhat emptiness of the narrative story-telling and characters. On the technical front, one would be hard-pressed to come up with a more impressive film. It is simply breath-taking, especially when seen in the format it should be seen ... 3D IMAX. Rarely, if ever, has space seemed more real, more beautiful and more ominous. From the extended opening take (Cuaron is known for his long takes), to the numerous shots of Planet Earth (from dominating the screen, to reflections in helmet shields), we are drawn in to the space walking and perils of Kowalski (George Clooney) and Dr Ryan Stone (Sandra Bullock).From an entertainment viewpoint, the film works as high-stress, thrilling space mission gone bad and ultimate survival story. What left me feeling a bit distracted and hence, quite annoyed, was the often eye-rolling dialogue seemingly designed to force our connection with the Clooney and, especially, Bullock characters. I prefer to experience my own emotions in both real life and in movies ... obvious cues and manipulating tugs through weak character development drives me away from, rather than towards the desired connectivity. My issues with the film are not related to the numerous scientific issues identified by astrophysicist Neil deGrasse Tyson and astronaut Buzz Aldrin. This is all explained away by Mr. Cuaron's statement that the film is "not a documentary". If we can be cool with Forrest Gump creating the smiley face, we can accept that Sandra Bullock can navigate her way between space stations with a fire extinguisher.Despite this, it's tough to argue against the technical marvel and thrilling experience created here. The 3D adds depth of field and adds a touch of realism, rather than the gimmicky tricks we often see with the format. With only a couple of jarring exceptions, Steven Price's score is minimal and complimentary to the quietness of space. Director of Photography Emmanuel Lubezki (Children of Men) re-teams with Cuaron for the extraordinary look. Some of the symbolism was a bit overdone - recurring umbilical imagery for the re-birth, but it's done to ensure no viewer misses the point. Finally, I got a kick out of Ed Harris' voice coming from Mission Control (think back to The Right Stuff and Apollo 13).
Greetings again from the darkness. It is such a joy when a film sneaks up and grabs you. After the 2003 collaboration of Ewan McGregor and Renee Zellweger in "Down With Love", my expectations were exceedingly low heading into the theatre for "Miss Potter". In fact, the only reason I went was because of the bit I knew about Beatrix Potter the lady and writer. 90 minutes later I emerged having experienced a purely charming story of an utterly fascinating and courageous woman.In full disclosure I must admit to not being a Zellweger fan in the least. Since "Jerry Maguire" I have always felt that she was wearing a sign that said, "look at me, I am a movie star!!". As Miss Potter, she offers up her most subtle and effective role to date. I found myself liking and respecting and pulling for this lady very much! While Mr. McGregor and Emily Watson are fine in their supporting role, this film most obviously belongs to Zellweger the same way the rabbits, ducks and pigs belonged to Beatrix. The weakness of the film comes from the scenes of Beatrix as a young girl raised in a home where the children are presented for goodnight cheek kisses and father/son handshakes. While offering a bit of insight into the early artistry and toughness of Beatrix, the childhood scenes are mostly a waste of time that could have been better spent on her later more philanthropic years.That said, the film remains a wonderfully charming testament to this under-appreciated artist and charitable human being. Seeing her face light up when a publisher finally agrees to take on her "little book", we fully understand the pride and excitement she feels. In fact, Zellweger captures that constant feeling of nearly "busting out" in all matters of happiness, sadness and emotional turmoil. It is truly a fine performance and an entertaining film about a self-made and determined woman in a time when those traits were not necessarily "proper".
Greetings again from the darkness. Just a wonderful film with enormous amounts of energy, suspense and intrigue. Director Paul Verhoeven has had his career ups and downs - "Basic Instinct", "RoboCop", "Showgirls" - but here he is at his absolute best in creating tension in so many scenes.The script is brilliant (supposedly based on actual events) and takes us on a wild ride and proof again that power is dangerous, causes strange bedfellows and most of all, breeds distrust ... even amongst those on the same side.Set at the end of WWII, the film feels real and the sets and props are outstanding. Even the violence and scenes of torture are painful to watch. Carice van Houten is brilliant as Rachel/Ellis, the Dutch lady who joins the resistance in order to seek revenge on those responsible for her family's brutal massacre. Ms. van Houten has a real spirit and fully captures the intricacies of the role. Sebastian Koch (Muntze) and Thom Hoffman (Akkermans) are both excellent ... the latter reminds of the intensity of the "old" Russell Crowe.It is a rare film that combines an emotional roller coaster with a spy thriller. "Black Book" succeeds on many levels and is truly superb film-making.
Greetings again from the darkness. Add another to the list of jobs I hope to never have ... Bomb Tech. Sure Keanu Reeves made it look like fun while drooling over Sandra Bullock, but here director Kathryn Bigelow shows us a closer look at what really goes on with these guys - deep inside the war.Jeremy Renner is stunning as the "show no fear" bomb tech who understands his job, thrives on his job, and ultimately needs his job. Renner's talent was obvious when he played the sleazy rapist in North Country, but here you just can't take your eyes off of him.Bigelow (yes, the same who directed Keanu and Swayze in Point Break) delivers excruciatingly intense drama. There were times I wanted to look away, but I couldn't blink. I was frozen and glued to the action.Not many movies kill off the likes of Guy Pearce and Ralph Fiennes, but duty is the star of the film. And while that is the strength, it is also the film's weakness. Character development and story lines are pretty much non-existent other than the obvious thrill seeker, dedicated soldier, dumb white trash, etc. Those are more stereotypes than characters, but it doesn't prevent this from being a very intense film to watch.
Greetings again from the darkness. Not in the class of 1998's first segment, Cate Blanchett is still a wonder as the virgin Queen. Here she displays much more vulnerability and emotion than in the first, but her weaknesses are a bit too heavy handed. Director Shekhar Kapur is back at the helm, though for some reason he has only made one other film (Four Feathers) since the 1998 Elizabeth.Clive Owen plays swashbuckling Sir Walter Raleigh who charms his way into the Queen's inner circle and more than charms Abbie Cornish (A Good Year), the Queen's personal favorite of her court. Owen adds a bit a cartoonish feel to the film and is definitely shown to be the hero of the holy war. Geoffrey Rush is back as Elizabeth's adviser and he is given a sub-plot with his brother so that he doesn't spend the entire two hours just bowing to Blanchett. The whole Mary Queen of Scots (Samantha Morton) story is presented very awkwardly, but the beheading was actually beautifully filmed. Adding to the cartoonish feel was the manner in which Jordi Molla portrays King Philip II of Spain ... very odd.This one manages to cling to epic status through amazing sets, incredibly wonderful wardrobe and a terrific score. Even though it isn't the masterpiece of the first segment, it is still worth seeing and will be involved in Oscar talk.
Greetings again from the darkness. Remember the last silent film that received this much adoration, acclaim and publicity? Of course you don't. It was 1927 and Clara Bow starred in "Wings", the most recent silent film to be nominated for Best Picture (it won). My guess is, that streak is about to end thanks to French writer/director Michel Hazanavicius.No doubt many will avoid this one since it is a Black & White silent film. What a mistake that would be. It offers a wonderfully entertaining and captivating story, and two outstanding and expressive lead performances. Jean Dujardin is remarkable as George Valentin, one of the biggest movie stars in 1927 (when this story begins). It's around this time when the "talkies" begin taking over. Valentin is a very likable character, but foolishly believes talking movies are a fad and his fans will remain loyal to him and his traditional silent films. Not only do talkies take off, but the Great Depression also hits. Valentin finds himself out of work and broke.The most fun in the film occurs when Valentin and Peppy Miller (Berenice Bejo) are together. Their characters have a chance meeting and there is an instant spark. Valentin gets her the first break of her career and before long, she is on the rise as fast as he free falls. Only Valentin's dog and driver (James Cromwell) remain loyal to him during the tough times, but Peppy refuses to let the bond die.It's impossible to watch this film and not notice the influence of "Singin' in the Rain" and "Sunset Blvd". Also, Dujardin's Valentin looks to be a cross between Douglas Fairbanks and Gene Kelly, replete with the electric matinée idol smile. Both Dujrardin and Ms. Bejo (who is the director's real life girlfriend) have the elastic face and bright eyes necessary for silent film stardom. They really allow us as viewers to forget the silence and enjoy the characters.This is a fully realized story with excellent character development. You might wonder how this is possible with no dialogue, but that's why this is a must see film garnering an abundance of critical acclaim. It's very easy to access and is purely entertaining ... with both moments of happiness and sadness. It has everything a really good movie should have ... just with fewer lines of dialogue!
Greetings again from the darkness. Historical dramatizations can be a tricky business, as delivering both truth and entertainment value is quite challenging. There is always an expert quick to point out any artistic license taken at the expense of historical accuracy. Of course, most movie lovers have come to accept that even the best-intentioned Hollywood looks at history will be at least as focused on selling tickets as educating the public. Because of this, the swirling controversies for this film are neither surprising nor overly distracting from its message.March 7, 1965 is known as Bloody Sunday and marks one of the most despicable moments in U.S. history. It was also a turning point in the Civil Rights Movement and can be viewed as shrewd strategy from Martin Luther King, Jr. and his organization, the Southern Christian Leadership Conference. The movie makes it clear that MLK had a full understanding that Selma, Alabama and it's racist, redneck Sheriff Jim Clark provided the perfect opportunity for a violent reaction to King's demonstrations and protests. It also makes it very clear that there was boundless ignorance, hatred and racism on the part of many southern whites. If the subject matter is somehow not enough to grab your attention, the startling event that occurs 5 minutes in will surely leave you shaken.The film does an outstanding job of focusing on two pieces of this most complex puzzle: 1. the boots on the ground  the grass roots movement of the people, and 2. the ongoing political debates occurring between MLK and LBJ, between LBJ and his staff, and between MLK and his lieutenants.The Civil Rights Act had already been passed, so the efforts were in hopes of overcoming the obstacles faced by southern blacks who wished to vote. One of the film's best scenes has activist Annie Lee Cooper (Oprah Winfrey) trying yet again to have her voter registration processed, but being rebuffed by a county clerk through an impossible Q&A session. These intimate moments are where the film excels: Coretta questioning MLK on his love for her, MLK speaking with grandfather of Jimmie Lee Jackson outside the morgue, and MLK turning down the proposal of US Attorney John Doar (Alessandro Nivola).In an odd twist of casting, four of the leading characters are played by Brits: David Oyelowo as MLK, Tom Wilkinson as LBJ, Tim Roth as George Wallace and Carmen Ejogo as Coretta Scott King. All four are excellent, but it's Mr. Roth as the racist-beyond-belief Alabama Governor Wallace that is the most slitheringly evil, while Mr. Oyelowo gives what can only be described as a towering performance of the man many of us know only from history books and news reels (and a January holiday).The supporting cast is vast and talented, and because the story spends so much time on the individuals, many of these spend little time on screen. In addition to Andrew Young (Andre Holland), Reverend Hosea Williams (Wendell Pierce), J Edgar Hoover (Dylan Baker), and Lee C White (Giovanni Ribisi), we also see activist Diana Nash (Tessa Thompson), CT Vivian (Corey Reynolds), John Lewis (Stephen James), and Judge Johnson (Martin Sheen). The most bizarre moment has Malcolm X (Nigel Thatch) in a quasi-Mr Rogers depiction as he discussed his new found approach with Coretta.The original King speeches are owned by another studio so those delivered here by Oyelowo have been re-written and revised, yet the words and Oyelowo's powerful oratory deliver the message loud and clear. While it can be argued that the film delivers only one point of view (the FBI was no friend to the movement), it can just as easily be argued that previous films have done the same thing  only from the "other" perspective (Mississippi Burning, Ghosts of Mississippi).In what can be viewed as the first serious movie on Martin Luther King, director Ava DuVernay announces her presence with authority. She will have no need to return to her career as a movie publicist, and we will be watching to see what type of projects appeal to her after this. In a brilliant move, the story focuses on a period of just a few months in 1965, rather than tackling the MLK legacy. She presents him as a man with strengths, flaws, doubts, and determination. It's clear why so many followed him, and it's all the more painful to know that so many resisted.
Greetings again from the darkness. The trailer and two male leads for this one made it a must see. What we get is an incredibly stylish, cool work of art ... and a decent (not great) film. Director Neil Burger, whom I know nothing about, has obviously studied Hitchcock and some of the great period pieces in Hollywood history. His lighting and shot selection are beautiful.What is missing here is a captivating, suspenseful story line. Really only two half-developed sub-plots exist. The first one is, will the Police Inspector (played brilliantly by Paul Giamatti) "catch" Eisenheim (a mesmerizing performance by Edward Norton) in the tricks of his illusions? The second, and much less interesting, is the odd love story between the long ago adolescent friends (Norton and Jessica Biel). This second story is borderline preposterous as we are supposed to believe some unbreakable bond occurred between these two at age 14 that even 15 years apart (and maturity and life lessons) could not break.Missing suspense aside, this is a very entertaining film thanks to the style of the film and the joy of watching two of our best working actors - Norton and Giamatti. We actually sense Norton's pain throughout and Giamatti again wreaks eternal resignation to his plight. Also adding to the fun is popcorn evil bad guy, The Crown Prince, played well enough by Jude Law lookalike Rufus Sewell. Luckily, Biel's contribution is limited to big hair, big lips, a big smile and very few lines of dialogue.The spiritualism of this era in Venice is touched upon, but actually very little historical significance is given to the Illusionists of the time, who were worshiped by the masses until they were exposed and then deposed.Definitely worth seeing, but disappointing due to its lack of story breadth and substance.
Greetings again from the darkness. I will readily admit to being a huge Pedro Almodovar fan. His films regularly place on my year-end Best Of list. I do admire his creativity, tough women characters,visual acumen and multi-dimensional stories. With Almodovar, we can bank on some type of dalliance with death, a brush with sexual deviance, non-linear time lines, plots that twist and turn incessantly, a color palette to make Frida Kahlo envious and psychological darkness that forces us to look inward. All of these elements are present here ... but somehow it doesn't quite click.Antonio Banderas plays Dr. Robert Ledgard, a plastic surgeon revered for his work in face transplants. What the medical profession doesn't know is that Dr. Ledgard takes the mad scientist label to whole new dimension. And he does it with the coolness reserved for the other side of the pillow. I will not go into details of the story other than to say Banderas' character would make Dr. Frankenstein turn away in disgust.Dr. Ledgard lives in a beautiful mansion with his protective housekeeper played by Almodovar veteran Marissa Paredes. He also has a live-in patient named Vera, played wonderfully by Elena Anaya. Support work is also provided by Jim Cornet as Vicente. I wish I could tell you more of the characters, but can't without giving away too much.Dr. Legard and Vera are two of the most fascinating characters ever written by Almodovar and the film is a twisted road to discomfort all wrapped up in a silky smooth picture frame. From a filmmaking perspective, I couldn't rate it much higher. From an entertainment perspective, it would be near the bottom of the most interesting or desirable Almodovar films. Am I disappointed? Sure, a little. But not enough to override my excitement for the next film by Almodovar!
Greetings again from the darkness. Gerard Butler keeps his streak alive. He is good in every movie, regardless of whether the movie itself is very good. Not that this one is awful, it was just disappointingly inconsistent.Director F Gary Gray (The Italian Job) teams with writer Kurt Wimmer (The Recruit) to provide one fascinating character (Butler) and his nemesis - the wasted opportunity played by Jamie Foxx. The Foxx character is so poorly written, at least in the first 45 minutes, that I wanted to laugh outloud almost every time he said something stupid or even just strutted through the hallways of justice. I will admit that Foxx and his character were much more interesting once the cat and mouse game got serious.Butler's character is terrific throughout. He is one of those sneaky smart guys who just happens to be a pro at killing people in unusual ways. His twisted lecture series for Foxx is a hoot and captivating. Every time he is on screen, you can't wait for what he is going to do or say next.A big plus for the film is the casting of two top notch supporting actors in Colm Meaney and Bruce McGill - two of the best working these days. It is offset, however, by the totally out of place Leslie Bibb (Talladega Nights and Iron Man) who looks odd and acts even worse. Luckily for her, Oscar nominee Viola Davis (Doubt) takes bad acting to a whole different level with her angry diatribes. Just horrible.With a better script and a little effort from Jamie Foxx, this could have been significantly better. Still worth watching for Butler and his intricate schemes, but disappointing nonetheless.
Greetings again from the darkness. Fairy Tales. The Brothers Grimm. Expectations for a delightful story and fascinating characters should not be doused. Blah is the best word I have for this version of the classic children's story. The "updated" story is a mess, the characters are quite bland, and the few sets are limited in scope. On the bright side, the costumes are colorful and, for a change, disliking Julia Roberts will not place me in the minority ... she is after all, the evil Queen.I spent most of the movie distracted by Julia Roberts' lips and Lily Collins eyebrows. Both are characters unto themselves. Julia Roberts should be the perfect Queen, but she seemed to put forth little effort with her lines ... an odd mix of sarcasm for a kids' movie. Lily Collins (daughter of Phil) is just bland. She has no screen presence at all and is swallowed up in her scenes with Roberts, Armie Hammer (the Prince) and the band of dwarfs.There are so many things I could comment on, but most would be negative, so I'll just leave it alone. Being a fan of director Tarsem Singh (The Fall), there were moments where is remarkable eye for colorful visuals provided hope, but the lack of quality story-telling was just too much to overcome. Stick to the 1937 Disney version, or hold out hope for the much darker version coming out later this year, Snow White and the Huntsman (with Kristen Stewart).
Greetings again from the darkness. I try to spend very little time re-hashing movies that deliver very little ... I prefer to move on to the next one with a clear head. This one frustrated me because it could have - even should have - been so much more.Director John Crowley was responsible for the very entertaining Michael Caine film Is Anybody There? and writer Steven Knight penned three scripts that I very much enjoyed: Dirty Pretty Things, Eastern Promises, and Amazing Grace. The cast is very talented with Eric Bana, Jim Broadbent, Ciaran Hinds, and ... well ... also Rebecca Hall and Julia Stiles. So why does it feel so empty? The movie begins with a horrible act of terrorism - a suicide bomb in London that we view through a grid of 12 closed circuit screens. You would be incorrect if you think there is a payoff for frantically scanning all screens looking for clues. This device is nothing more than a reminder (over and over again) that we are constantly being monitored while in public.The ensuing trial provides a peek at the British legal system, but the most interesting sub-plot ... the young son of the accused terrorist ... is minimized in favor of the generic romance between two legal defense attorneys (Bana and Hall). Additionally, Ciaran Hinds character is simply too easy to read and Ann-Marie Duff is totally miscast. My favorite moments were the all-too-rare exquisite verbal diatribes from the great Jim Broadbent.Chalk this one up as a forgettable would-be/should-be political legal thriller that just doesn't thrill. It's of little comfort to know that I was probably being watched on the theatre security cameras as I longed for something worth watching on the screen.
Greetings again from the darkness. In Cast Away, Tom Hanks makes friends with a volleyball. In The Old Man and the Sea, Spencer Tracy talks to the whale. In Harvey, James Steward chats it up with a tall imaginary rabbit! It takes Robert Redford to show us how to face isolation with dignity and silence (save one well-deserved F-word).Writer/director J.C. Chandor brought us the very good Margin Call (2011), which was filled with many characters and significant dialogue. Here, he delivers a single character and no real dialogue - only the initial log entry and a couple of SOS calls into a short-circuited radio. This is one man's struggle for survival. It's that man vs nature. It's our man facing mortality and isolation.So you are probably wondering how this can hold your attention for two hours. The real answer is Robert Redford. At age 77, his screen presence is remarkable. Having never been a "showy" actor, his performance and this movie depend on facial expressions, his body language, and mostly his ability to connect with an audience immediately. Technically, the movie is exceptional, especially in sound design and in creating a terrifying and believable situation.Alex Ebert's music is subtle and effective, but let's get real ... Mr. Redford and his mop of red hair are the reason to see this movie. There is almost no back story on this character, other than what we infer from his opening log entry. We know his "I'm sorry" has many meanings to his family, but we soon realize his will to live probably comes from an internal drive connected to his apology. It's nice to see a role for an older actor that doesn't included stupid humor designed to make kids laugh. Not much humor in this one, but there's no reason to be sorry.
Greetings again from the darkness. The action-thriller-spy genre can be quite fun when handled properly. The Bourne series and Salt come immediately to mind. What we have here is a ho-hum game of cat and mouse between CIA Agents played by Denzel Washington and Ryan Reynolds. It's ho-hum because of the simplistic and predictable script from writer David Guggenheim.To offset this substandard script, director Daniel Espinosa leans heavily on near non-stop action sequences. Luckily he has DP Oliver Wood (first two Bourne movies) to bring intensity and variety to the action. Denzel plays the veteran rogue agent who turns himself in to a U.S. Consulate after a decade off the grid. We learn he is a U.S. traitor of the worst degree. Reynolds plays a rookie agent assigned to a going-nowhere "safe house" in South Africa. To say the action is lacking on his assignment is a bit of an understatement. That is, until Denzel is transferred to his site.We learn a few things in this movie. First, "Safe house" is evidently CIA verbiage for "all hell breaks loose" in the form of massive gunfire and violent deception. Second, if you are an agent in charge of escorting one of the world's most dangerous men, you would prefer your bosses not send the two of you into a crowded soccer stadium to pick up a GPS device. Things are likely to go wrong. Third, it's not wise to walk in on Denzel when he is in a bathroom stall. Fourth, if you are Ryan Reynolds, your on screen girlfriends can be as beautiful as your real life girlfriends, and no one raises an eyebrow.The film does remind us that it's always cool to see Sam Shepard and Ruben Blades. Where have you been hiding Mr. Blades? The rest of the strong cast includes Brendon Gleeson and Vera Farmiga as dueling Langley operatives, Liam Cunningham as a (surprise!) bad guy, Joel Kinnaman (from The Killing) as an agent, and Nora Arnezeder as Reynolds' hottie.Being a fan of this genre, it is quite disappointing to see such an obvious and basic story. The overload of car crashes, gunfire, and hand to hand combat doesn't offset the fact that everyone knows early on how this is going to end. So even though Denzel makes an enjoyable good guy turned bad, and Reynolds shows he is way above the idiotic Green Lantern, this one just doesn't offer much more than your average video game.
Greetings again from the darkness. It's not politically correct to criticize this movie, but it seems only fair to treat it as I do every other movie on which I comment. If that sounds like a bashing is coming, you are mistaken. In fact, this is an emotionally-charged, well written and exceptionally well-acted movie that provides much anticipation for the future projects of its first time director Ryan Coogler. However, in my opinion, it is also flawed in its "Based on a True Story" placard that is then followed by much manipulation (3 Oprah references), some of it even bordering on misleading.If you are unfamiliar with the tragic story, 22 year old Oscar Grant was inexplicably shot and killed (while subdued and face down) by a BART (Bay Area Rapid Transit) cop after watching New Year's Eve fireworks with his girlfriend and buddies. An altercation/fight occurred on the train and the officers pulled Grant aside to detain/arrest. Much of this was caught on cell phone video by train passengers, and the aftermath brought protests in the city. The officer was tried and found guilty of involuntary manslaughter and sentenced to two years. He claimed he mistook his gun for his Taser.No one can argue that this was anything but a senseless tragedy. Director Coogler even begins his movie with actual cell phone footage of the incident. The ending is known and seared in the viewer's mind before the story even begins. Whether the senseless shooting was racially driven is a topic for debate, but the current media focus on the George Zimmerman trial and his killing of Trayvon Martin makes the timing of this movie quite compelling.Coogler certainly points out that Grant (adeptly played by Michael B Jordan) was no angel. We learn about his prison stints, his drug dealing, his unfaithfulness to his girlfriend (the mother of his daughter), his lack of responsibility (losing his job due to chronic absence), his string of lies, and most glaringly ... his terrifyingly quick and violent temper. My issue with the film is the seemingly inordinate amount of time Coogler spends on the flip side -- the focus on Oscar's desire to get his life back on track. So much effort and so many scenes are written to exhibit how Oscar is a charming guy with a big heart. He helps out a white lady in the grocery store, he takes a big step towards leaving the drug dealing life, he plans his mother's birthday party, heck ... he even cradles a poor dog that was hit by a car. This inequity in storytelling apparently has only one purpose ... to create another symbol of racial injustice. We are not left to ponder if the real Oscar is the one who inspires his daughter to brush her teeth or the one who bows up to a foul-mouthed convict. Instead, Coogler wants us to believe that Oscar was now a good guy who had put his past behind him ... all in the 24 hours leading up to his death.The fact is, there are two sides of Oscar, just like everyone has multiple facets to their personality. Most of us learn to control the sides that doesn't mesh well with society ... others really struggle to do so. Michael B Jordan delivers a powerful performance as Oscar, and he and Octavia Spencer (who plays his mom) will both garner awards attention. Other supporting work is provided by Melonie Diaz as his girlfriend, Ariana Neal as his precious daughter, Ahna O'Reilly as the shopper, and Kevin Durand and Chad Michael Murray as the BART cops.This film was the hit of both Sundance and Cannes, and was produced by Forest Whitaker. A major tip of the cap to BART for allowing the filmmakers to work on location at the actual Fruitvale station, for a level of authenticity. Coogler chooses one last bit of manipulation with his closing video of Oscar's daughter Tatiana at a recent memorial outside of Fruitvale station ... followed by on screen text of the officer's two year sentence. We get no details on the trial, only the assumption that the sentence does not deliver justice, but rather another example of racial bias.Lastly I'll say that the decision to make a dramatization rather than a documentary was interesting. This allowed the director to focus on Oscar the good guy. A documentary would have required facts from the trial, a better perspective of the train disturbance and probably fewer Oprah references. The dramatization makes the movie more emotionally charged and more effective at inspiring discussion, rather than debate. Despite all of that, this is extraordinary filmmaking from a first time director, and I will certainly look forward to Ryan Coogler's next project.
Greetings again from the darkness. Maybe I should apologize, but I won't. This was hands-down my favorite from the Dallas International Film Festival. It was probably the least favorite of many others. With the most outlandish and uncomfortable opening scene in recent memory, the movie comes across a rough blend of early Guy Ritchie and The Wolf of Wall Street.Given that description, no movie lover would expect Jude Law to be the star who dominates most every scene. Yes, pretty boy Jude Law has gone "ugly" the way fellow pretty boy Matthew McConaughey went "indie". It's a shock to see Mr. Law looking shaggy and paunchy ... in his best moments! He holds nothing back in his portrayal of this vulgar, verbose ex-con so full of swagger.Joining Dom is his old buddy Dickie, played by Richard E Grant - whose smooth comedic delivery is a terrific complement to the harshness of Dom. After serving 12 years in prison, Dom is on a mission to get the money he is due from a Russian mobster played by Demian Bichir (yes, Mr. Bichir is Mexican). Of course, nothing ever goes as planned in Dom's life, so a coke-fueled night of celebration at a glamorous French château leads to one of the most startling cinematic car accidents, leaving Dom penniless.The story now veers off the Dom's attempt at redemption ... reconciliation with his daughter played by "Game of Thrones" Emilia Clarke. The bi-polar aspects of Dom's persona comes through when comparing his "criminal" scenes and his "daughter" scenes. The contrast does provide relief from the relentless raucous dialogue delivered with the most extreme cockney accent possible. Still, the redemption story line takes away from what makes Dom such a force of nature and so much fun to watch on screen.This is a violent, vulgar character delivered in blaringly over-the-top mode by an actor that has previously shown no such tendencies. As with all comedy, and especially such raucous, irreverent black comedy, the audience will be divided by those who find this extremely entertaining and those who think it's a waste of time and talent. Expect no guarantees from me on which camp you might fall into.
Greetings again from the darkness. Two upfront disclosures are in order. I have never seen the mega-smash Broadway show, and I've always been a huge fan of The Four Seasons' music. These are pertinent because they impact one's reaction to the film version.Director Clint Eastwood knew immediately he wanted to bring the Broadway show to the movies. In fact, his decision to cast 3 of the 4 main stage actors proved crucial in this successful transition. The rags-to-riches story of four guys from New Jersey is not only true, but it's believable because they scrap and battle just like we would expect. The mob ties are on full display, as is the struggle to maintain any semblance of normal family life while on the rocket ship to stardom.John Lloyd Young is spectacular as the great Frankie Valli. While I fully anticipated cringing during the songs, his voice never once faltered. He is clearly the main reason the Broadway show (he won a Tony award) and the movie work. Erich Bergen plays songwriter Bob Gaudio and Michael Lomenda plays bassist Nick Massi ... both are solid. The only crack was in the casting of Vincent Piazza as Tommy DeVito. Piazza is well known from "Boardwalk Empire", but he is just a bit too slick as the guy who scammed the other band members, digging a massive hole of debt - mostly to a mob loan shark named Norm Waxman (played by Donnie Kehr in an excellent performance).Other support work is provided by Mike Doyle as record producer and all-around flamboyant guy, Bob Crewe; Renee Marino starts strong as Mary (Frankie's future wife) but is given little to do as the story progresses; Joseph Russo captures the quirks of a young Joe Pesci, who introduces Gaudio to the band; and the always entertaining Christopher Walken slightly underplays local made guy Gyp DeCarlo who is instrumental in protecting Frankie in those early years. It should also be noted that the band's accountant is played by Barry Livingston, who you might remember as Ernie from "My Three Son's".Eastwood is now 84 years old and he wisely takes a pretty conventional route with the film version. In fact, the argument could be made that taming the language could have resulted in a PG-13 rating, making it more accessible to families. It doesn't have the edge that most R movies possess. This movie has not been popular with critics and it's probably because of this relatively safe approach to an entertaining and fun story. It's not cutting edge cinema, but if you enjoy the music, you will enjoy the movie.
Greetings again from the darkness. While it is clear that writer John Orloff and director Roland Emmerich believe that Edward De Vere, The Earl of Oxford, and not Will Shakespeare, wrote the infamous and iconic plays we have celebrated for 400 years, my advice is to watch this as a Hollywood movie and not a docu-drama. Hollywood is at its best when exaggerating, twisting and dramatizing historic events and figures.You may be an expert on Shakespeare and even Elizabethan history, but whether you are or whether you are not, my guess is that you will find this to be interesting and thought-provoking. You may agree with the idea that Shakespeare was not the prolific and talented author, but this movie provides one possible alternative ... with no scientific proof or actual documentation. We see Rhys Ifans and Jamie Campbell Bower portray Edward De Vere as the older and younger version respectively. Both capture his passion for writing and frustration at being unable to live the life for which he was born.Vanessa Redgrave and her real life daughter Joely Richardson portray Queen Elizabeth at the older and younger stages, and we certainly get a distinctive impression of how "the Virgin Queen" may have been mis-labeled as much as any figure in history. Many lovers and illegitimate children are mentioned and the web of secrecy would have been exhausting, given the other responsibilities of her position.Rafe Spall portrays Will Shakespeare as what one might call The Village Idiot. The buffoonery we see from this man is an extreme that weakens the case for De Vere, rather than strengthen it. Though talented writer Ben Jonson (Sebastian Armesto) was De Vere's first choice, the lack of morals by the illiterate actor Shakespeare allows him to seize a capitalistic opportunity and soak up the audience love.The best part of the film is the realistic look and feel of the streets, the Globe Theater and costumes. Rhys Ifans is exceptional in the role of De Vere, and the story itself plays out much like one of Shakespeare's plays. The downside is, I believe most will find the multitude of characters and time-lines and sub-plots to be quite confusing at times. Don't take a bathroom break or you'll miss new babies being born and upheavals being planned.
Greetings again from the darkness. This is absolutely one of the best and exciting action films ever. Nothing really new from the story side, but director Paul Greengrass (back at the helm after "Bourne Supremacy") is a master of chase scenes and tight space action. And as I have said before, Matt Damon is Jason Bourne ... it is that rare perfect blend of character and actor.New faces include some terrific acting from David Strathairn, Scott Glenn, Paddy Considine and the always great Albert Finney. The regular ladies are back as Julia Stiles and Joan Allen remain the weak links in the series.What makes the Ludlum franchise so wonderful is that you can't always immediately tell the good guys from the bad guys. The perfect example is Jason Bourne. After the first two films, we know the guys has some darkness in his past, but we are pulling for him all the time. Should we be? This third installment provides some answers, but make no mistake, what sets this one apart is the action. Director and star are in prime form and it is quite a rush!
Greetings again from the darkness. The movie lover in me has been anxiously awaiting this one for months. On the other hand, as a citizen, the recent Presidential campaign antics put me in quite the political funk. Tired of the rhetoric and disenchanted with the current leadership, I was concerned my thoughts might poison the outlook on director Steven Spielberg's latest. Fortunately, both Lincoln and "Lincoln" allowed me to forget those in charge today, and instead witness the look and feel of true leadership and greatness.Despite the title, this is not simply a biographical sketch of our 16th President. Rather, it's an essay on back room politics ... the key to Washington and democracy. Deal-cutting, horse-trading, arm-twisting are just some of the strategies involved in reaching compromise. When the stakes are history ... abolishing slavery ... the passion of those unseen actions is intensified. We see a man at the height of his power willing to do what is necessary to reach a goal in which he fervently believes - even though his views are not shared by a great many others.Some of the most fun in the film occurs during the House floor debates between Republicans and Democrats. These scenes serve as a reminder that the two parties are often at philosophical odds and, just as designed, debate and discussion lead to compromise and advancement. At least that's the general idea and purpose. Next to Daniel Day-Lewis' performance, err, embodiment of Lincoln, the script is what really jumped out at me. Loosely based on "Team of Rivals: The Political Genius of Abraham Lincoln" by Doris Kearns Goodwin, Tony Kushner's screenplay serves up dialogue that is sharp, crisp, entertaining, thought-provoking and filled with message. This is a very talky film, not a Civil War film. We only get a couple of brief battlefield scenes, but the conversations never allow us to forget that the brutal war is always on the mind of the politicians and citizens.Having always been fascinated by Abraham Lincoln, and familiar with the legend, the icon, the monuments, the statues, it was with true awe that I recognize what Daniel Day-Lewis delivers. His presence is so powerful that I found it all but impossible to look at anything else when he was on screen. That will certainly mandate a second viewing, but I have no hesitancy in recommending a film that brings to life what a great man can be ... what true leadership can be. This is a man who carries his burdens in his soul. He may have been self-educated, but in addition to Shakespeare and Euclid, Mr. Lincoln understood people. That knowledge allowed him to maintain his high principles through patience and reasoning and even (sometimes) humorous story-telling.We are never allowed to forget that this is a Spielberg movie. The scenes with Lincoln and Mary Todd (Sally Field) are somewhat distracting to the greater stories, but perhaps that's the point. These discussions were distractions to him as well. In fact, Spielberg is quite kind to Mary Todd Lincoln. Other tales have not been. Either way, Ms. Field is effective, though I wish she had less screen time.The supporting cast is a who's who of character actors. Most won't be named here but Tommy Lee Jones is a key player as Rep. Thaddeus Stevens, a radical abolitionist; David Strathairn as Sec of State William Steward has Lincoln's trust; Joseph Gordon-Levitt plays Lincoln's son; and Jackie Earle Haley plays the Confederate VP Alexander Stevens. There is also a tribunal of political lobbyists or fixers that add quite the element of dirty-politics: James Spader, John Hawkes and Tim Blake Nelson. There is a quick scene at Appomattox showing General Robert E Lee, and we get a couple of scenes with General Ulysses S Grant (Jared Harris).Lastly, the score from the great John Williams excels and compliments the mood and pace of the story ... he is careful to never overwhelm. Williams is probably in line for his 48th Oscar nomination (second only to Walt Disney). This is a film about process and the people who made that process work - even at a time when everyone thought the choice had to be made between ending the war and abolishing slavery. Choose one, you can't have both. Abraham Lincoln proved that sometimes the right man is in the right place at the right time. Unfortunately, those times come around very rarely. (www.MovieReviewsFromTheDark.wordpress.com)
Greetings again from the darkness. All the critics are raving about it. Love abounds for the latest from director Noah Baumbach and his co-writer and leading lady Greta Gerwig. What makes my ambivalence even more confounding is that I'm a fan of Baumbach (The Squid and the Whale) and Gerwig (Greenberg). The expert level of filmmaking and acting is obvious, the script details and dialogue are exceptional, and the situations and setting are realistic. So why aren't I more excited about this one? That's what I've spent the past few days wondering.It seems Frances Ha delivers everything I look for in an indie film. The problem is that I find almost every character to be annoying and self-absorbed. The first act finds Frances (Gerwig) sitting on top of the world. She has a boyfriend, a BFF/roomie, and is a dance company apprentice with the expectation of a dance career. Soon enough she watches Strike Three go by and her world is in a tailspin. We then watch Frances trudge on through uncertainty and instability in living arrangements, personal relationships and career path. It plays like a road trip that really never hits the highway.Frances moves in with Lev (Adam Driver) and Ben (Michael Zegen) and she is oblivious to Ben's interest as she obsesses about her former BFF Sophie (Mickey Sumner). See, Sophie is trying to grow up while Frances wants to stay in her dream land where she and Sophie remain "the same person with different hair". Frances then crashes at the apartment of a fellow dancer played with all seriousness by Grace Gummer (Meryl Streep's daughter). The two dancing opposites attend an awkward dinner party at which Frances manages to spew an endless stream of absurd remarks that advertise her lack of maturity. Her response to this is to take a spontaneous trip to Paris ... charged to a new credit card.Make no mistake. Frances is a very energetic and sincere free-spirited twenty-seven year old. The kind that is only charming in the movies. If her quirk wins you over, you will find yourself rooting for her to get her life together. That would put you in the same corner as most other film critics. On the other hand, if you recognize the optimism, but are unmoved by the immaturity and self-absorption, then you are banished to the corner of those who "just don't get it". And I'll be right there with you.
Greetings again from the darkness. Writer/director Pawel Pawlikowski films in his homeland of Poland and presents a familiar topic from a most unusual perspective. This film has been very well received on the festival circuit and it's easy to see why: it's beautifully photographed, very well acted, includes terrific music and presents an emotional story for intelligent viewers.We first meet Anna as a novitiate nun on the verge of taking her vows. Her Mother Superior has one requirement. Anna must visit her lone surviving relative. Her Aunt Wanda is everything Anna is not: worldly, cynical, direct. In the first few minutes of their visit, Wanda (Agata Kulesza) informs Anna (Agata Trzebuchowska) that she was born Jewish with the name Ida, and she was sent to a Catholic orphanage when her parents were killed.After this bombshell, the two set out on a journey to discover the truth and trace their roots. It's a journey of discovery not just for Ida, but also for Wanda, who carries her own burden. Questioning one's faith and one's true identity is nothing new, but this makes for quite an unusual buddy road trip. Wanda is rarely without a drink in hand and Ida has had no previous exposure to the real world.This is the debut of Agata Trzebuchowska and her porcelain look and big eyes convey a quality with which we find ourselves comfortable with, while Ms. Kulesza evokes empathy from the viewer despite her harsh edge and beaten down outlook on life and people. Hers is a standout performance.Two exceptional pieces of music are used to perfection: Coltraine's "Naima" and Mozart's "Jupiter" symphony. The storytelling and look of the film might be austere (stunning black and white photography) but this music hits us hard in two separate scenes.
Greetings again from the darkness. This is director Clint Eastwood's own Japanese counterpoint to his American version, "Flags of our Fathers". While "Flags" was a technical marvel, "Letters" ironically is much more humanistic in its story telling. We really get to know the men under the helmets who were continually told they were going to die for their country.The even more interesting aspect of this one is the confusion and conflict within the Japanese ranks both in preparation for and during the actual battle over this desolate, yet vital, island of rock. The leaders knew they were doomed without support and never really concealed the fact from the troops. Watching the debate of "suicide mission" vs. continued fighting was very difficult to watch.Ken Watanabe is terrific as General Kuribayashi, who's letters were the inspiration for the film. Two other key roles were Kazunari Ninomiya as the energetic, reluctant soldier Saigo; and the very charismatic Tsuyoshi Ihara as Nishi, a Japanese hero and real leader of men.As with "Flags", the war scenes are among the best ever filmed. The tight scenes inside the caves, really give us the feeling of what life must have been like for the Japanese soldiers as they fought towards their pending demise.Eastwood continues to prove what a fine filmmaker he is and although his next project has not yet been announced, I look forward to the addition to his legacy.
Greetings again from the darkness. It's been ten years since the September 11 attack and it's still difficult to talk about, write about, or make a movie about ... and certainly difficult to critique any of those attempts. Since I haven't read the novel by Jonathan Safran Foer (who also wrote Everything is Illuminated), my comments will be related only to this film directed by Stephen Daldry (The Hours, The Reader) and the script by Eric Roth (Forrest Gump, The Curious Case of Benjamin Button).Two positive things stand out for me in the film. Young Thomas Horn as Oskar Schell is interesting and talented, and someone I enjoyed watching on screen for most of two hours. Approximately 70 years his senior, Max von Sydow is captivating as speechless "Renter" from Oskar's grandmother's apartment. The two are quite an entertaining pairing on their road-trip through NYC.The basic story is that Oskar's father Tom Hanks) is one of the victims of the WTC attacks. Through flashbacks we see that he was a world-class father to Oskar, who may very well be inflicted with Asperger's Syndrome. Either way, Oskar is intelligent way beyond his years and possesses quite a curious and analytical mind. When his father dies, Oskar is convinced he can make sense of things by finding the lock that fits a key he found in his father's closet. He assumes it's another puzzle his father laid out for him with the only clue being "Black" written on the envelope.While it is interesting to see how Oskar organizes his mission of contacting the 472 Black's noted in the NYC phone book, it seems mostly a writing trick to get this unusual young man mingling with "normal" citizens. When he teams with von Sydow, the energy level picks up, but we can still feel the wheels turning on the machinery to create tear-inducing moments. These moments are EVERYWHERE and include Oskar being oblivious to his hurtful ways with his mom (Sandra Bullock).The support work is excellent and includes John Goodman, Viola Davis and Jeffrey Wright. Young Mr. Horn is best known for his winning Jeopardy during "Kid's Week", so he is obviously real-life smart as well as on screen talented. This story is just too preposterous to take seriously. How many parents would let their 11 year old wander the streets of NYC? What reaction would this kid receive as he confronts people while jingling his tambourine so as to calm his nerves? Just too much melodramatic storybook stretching to make this a story worth telling in regards to the September 11 events. However, if you are need of a few good cries, this one tees it up for you.
Greetings again from the darkness. Seeing more than 100 new movies every year means strict adherence to the "gut instincts" policy of deciding which new movies to see, and which to avoid. A day after the beat down of "Shame", I was desperate for laughter, so I ignored the gut instinct and headed out to see this new comedy. Unfortunately, my gut was correct, and I am still seeking laughter.David Gordon Green also directed Pineapple Express and Your Highness, neither my style, but both clearly comedies. Jonah Hill has quite the track record of comedy films (Cyrus), and earlier this year made his first foray into drama with "Moneyball". He has also recently lost a tremendous amount of weight, so this was to be his final "fat guy" comedy.If you have seen the far-superior "Adventures in Babysitting" (1987) with Elisabeth Shue, then you know the basic premise. Hill does his mother a favor by agreeing to babysit her friend's three kids. This proves more challenging than Hill's character expected. The kids are Slater, played by Max Records (Where the Wild Things Are); Blithe, played by Landry Bender; and Rodrigo, played by Kevin Hernandez. The kids, of course, have various afflictions, phobias and disorders ... but none as off the charts as Hill's character.Without going into detail, the first scene is horrible and the movie somehow proceeds to get worse from there. There is bathroom humor, a run in with a drug dealer (Sam Rockwell), a bitchy girlfriend (Ari Graynor) and a confrontation with a group of African Americans featuring Method Man. Every scene is predictable and generated no laughter from me or hardly anyone else in the theater. I always say that comedies are most difficult genre to review, because everyone has a unique sense of humor ... but this one just offers so very little.
Greetings again from the darkness. We can't really discuss this movie without referencing the 1985 original. Writer Tom Holland was involved with both (including directing the original) and gets credit for updating the story while maintaining the look and feel. It seems as if vampires are everywhere these days, but the Fright Night recipe expertly mixes suspense, danger and campy humor.Charley (Anton Yelchin) and his single Mom (Toni Collette) live in a quiet Las Vegas suburb. Charley's nerdy friend Ed (Christopher Mintz-Plasse) notices the place is getting quieter everyday ... people are disappearing! These disappearances correspond with the arrival of Charley's new neighbor Jerry (Colin Farrell). Yep ... Jerry the Vampire.Charley at first ignores Ed's investigative skills and concentrates on Amy (Imogen Poots), the out-of-his-league girlfriend whom he desperately wants to get to know better. And then ... Ed disappears. Charley tries to push Amy aside and solve this mystery. It doesn't take long since he breaks into Jerry's house and discovers where he stores the bodies of his victims. As you might expect, Jerry doesn't take well to the invasion.Charley goes to Vegas showman Peter Vincent (David Tenant) to seek help in destroying Jerry. See, Peter Vincent's crazy Vegas show is all about fighting the evil dead among us. Of course, Vincent isn't quite as tough off stage.There are plenty of moments of campy fun as Charley pursues Jerry. Not the least of which is a fender bender which includes Chris Sarandon, who played Jerry in the original. While it's a nice homage, it just made me miss Roddy McDowell, who originated the role of Peter Vincent. Still, watching McLovin as a tough-talking vampire is quite a bit of fun as are the few moments of doubt from Collette and Poots.Craig Gillespie directs the film, and his success a few years ago with the indie hit Lars and the Real Girl brings an added touch of class to the film. He really does a nice job of balancing the terror of the story with the humor necessary to make this one enjoyable and different.A tip of the cap to the casting of the movie. Yelchin (Star Trek, The Beaver) is a real up and comer. Ms. Poots was very effective in Jane Eyre and it will be interesting to follow the direction of her career. Collette is a real pro. Colin Farrell seems to really enjoy his turn as a vampire and adds some subtleties and quirks that make it fun. David Tenant (Dr. Who) really captures the Vegas Peter Vincent. Mintz-Plasse is one of the few who can effectively bounce from high school nerd to powerful vampire. Must also mention some hidden gems: singer Lisa Loeb makes a quick appearance as Ed's mother, Charley's friend Mark is played by Dave Franco - brother of James (you will spot the resemblance), and Peter Vincent's girlfriend Ginger is played by Sandra Vergara, sister of Sofia from Modern Family (again, you can't miss the resemblance).In this day and age, it isn't easy to assemble such a strong cast, script and director for a movie that isn't centered around alien action, terminal disease or toilet humor. If you enjoy campy horror films done with an acknowledged tongue planted in cheek, then I recommend this one. It delivers exactly what you hope and expect.
Greetings again from the darkness. It's 1996 in Carthage and scandal has hit smack dab in the middle of town square. That's rural east Texas where everyone knows everything about everyone. Well almost everything and almost everyone. Two years later, Skip Hollandsworth wrote an article for Texas Monthly about the fascinating, too-strange-to-believe story that shook this community. Now, 16 years after the murder, Hollandsworth co-wrote a screenplay with director Richard Linklater and they present a visual representation that allows us to wrap our heads around the events.Linklater is always an interesting filmmaker. His resume includes Dazed and Confused, and School of Rock. Here he re-teams with Jack Black, who stars at Bernie Tiede, the nicest man in Carthage. You need not take my word for it. Linklater interviews several actual Carthage residents who swear Bernie was the sweetest, most generous man they ever met. Some even state they will never believe he committed the murder ... despite his confession. Whatever you think of Mr. Black as an actor, his performance here is unlike any of his previous work. He is somehow subtle and believable while playing a real life over-the-top assistant funeral home director. His walk, speech pattern and mannerisms tell us all we need know about Bernie Tiede.The basic story is that Bernie befriends the wealthiest, wickedest widow in town. They become very close as friends, travel partners and even live together. Bernie gains Marjorie Nugent's trust and is eventually in charge of her finances and written in as her sole beneficiary. What makes this odd? Well, Bernie is 38. Marjorie (played by Shirley MacLaine) is 81. Oh, and he is gay. This odd arrangement somehow is accepted in this community for one reason ... he is just so a nice man! He truly is nice. Right up until the point where he's not so nice.This is one of those movies where the links are stronger than the chain. Black's performance is stellar and worth the price of admission. Equally entertaining are the "interviews" with the local townspeople. And adding intrigue to all of that is the best ever performance from Matthew McConaughey as local DA, Danny Buck Davidson. Those three elements make this oddball movie a sight to behold. There is humor to make us laugh and oddity to raise eyebrows.The downside is that the docudrama approach actually takes away from what should have been the key aspects of the story. More screen time watching the relationship between Bernie and Marjorie could have proved enlightening. Instead, the development is reduced to snapshots of vacations and a snippet of a couples massage. The dark elements are only hinted at until the shock of the deed.Movies based on truth are all the more enticing when the characters are themselves quite interesting and different. That's certainly the case with Bernie Tiede, Danny Buck Davidson, and the locals in Carthage. For a taste of small town East Texas living and dying, questionable morals, battles between legalities and religion, and the hypocrisy and clouded judgment that occurs when a nice guy gets dirty ... this is as good as it gets.
Greetings again from the darkness. With American Beauty, Road to Perdition and last year's Revolutionary Road on his resume, director Sam Mendes (hubby to Kate Winslet) has proved he often sees the dark and bleak in situations. He is not exactly a glass half-full kind of guy. Although not a complete departure from his standard of downer, Away We Go offers a glimmer of hope through the eyes of a young couple.We are treated to the most unusual prospect of a road trip involving a very pregnant woman (played by the terrific Maya Rudolph of SNL fame). She and her baby's father, John Krasinski (The Office), take off on a search to find the best place to live and raise their kid. This trip leads to a series of vignettes that can best be described as NUTS! The motivation for the trip comes when Burt's (Krasinski) parents, played by Catherine O'Hara and Jeff Daniels, announce they are moving to Budapest one month before the baby is due ... and couldn't be any happier. So on the road Burt and Verona (Maya) meet up with old friend Allison Janney, who is a loud, foul-mouthed woman stuck in a nowhere marriage with two kids who realized their mother never lost that self-centeredness most grow out of. Her husband, played by comedian Jim Gaffigan, is just bitter and miserable.Quaint Madison brings the "not from this planet" Maggie Gyllenhaal (Burt's not really cousin) who seems stuck somewhere between the late 60's and, let's say ... the planet Mars. Convinced strollers are the devil's work, this segment brings some of the funniest moments in the movie.Finally, Montreal brings the couple some hope. At least initially. Chris Messina and Melanie Lynskey have built a family through adoption, though we learn, it still isn't quite enough. This segment offers one of the film's finest and most bare to the bone moments of true life.While there is more to the film (Tuscon and Miami to be exact), the point is that Mendes and this fascinating script deliver real life and proof of the adage ... Nobody's perfect ... oh, and one of my favorites ... other people are weird.I wish this film would find a wider audience, not just for the wonderful script and journey, but also for Maya Rudolph's excellent work as a real person looking for answers.
Greetings again from the darkness. Husbands were surely disliked in the 1940's, at least by writers and filmmakers. There is no shortage of films depicting the villainous husband targeting the unsuspecting and defenseless wife. A couple years prior to this one we had Suspicion, and a couple years after, we had Notorious. The latter also features Ingrid Bergman who won her first Oscar for Gaslight, one of the more atmospheric of the psychological thrillers.Based on the Patrick Hamilton play, this one features terrific lead performances by Ms. Bergman and Charles Boyer, a role quite against type for France's romantic leading man. Joseph Cotten delivers a solid (and nice) supporting role as the interested Scotland Yard detective, and making her screen debut is an 18 year old Angela Lansbury (yes this movie is now 70 years old).Mr. Boyer is quite convincing and creepy as the despicable husband out to convince his bride that she is slipping into insanity. The psychological abuse is painful to watch, and the art/set direction provides such perfect decor that we share the claustrophobia and entrapment with Bergman's Paula. This audience connection allows for a most effective comeuppance or revenge scene that is simply delicious.There was actually a mostly unsuccessful UK film version in 1940, but it doesn't stand up to this expert production from director George Cukor. Mr. Cukor is the legendary director behind such classics as Little Women, The Philadelphia Story, and My Fair Lady. Gaslight received 7 Oscar nominations and in addition to Ms. Bergman's win, it also took home the statue for Best Art Direction. The film, Cukor and Boyer all lost out to that year's big winner Going My Way (Bing Crosby, Leo McCarey). Not many films have a psychology term named after them ... here's hoping you are never a victim of "gaslighting".
Greetings again from the darkness. For years I have recommended director Michael Haneke's 1997 German version as a sleeper in the creepy, psychological thriller genre. This time Haneke ("Cache") recreates the film in English, scene by scene, in an attempt to reach a wider audience. And when I say "reach", I really mean reach into your head and make you question your outlook! Although I haven't seen the original in a few years, I believe this is a shot by shot remake with well respected actors Tim Roth and Naomi Watts in the leads. The two well-mannered psychos are played here by Brady Corbett and a chilling Michael Pitt ("The Village", "Last Days"). Watts and Pitt really make this film work. It is very difficult to watch at times as it reminds us that the worst evil has no conscience. And most of us can't help but put ourselves in the shoes of the "normal" victims. How would we react? What would we do differently? How could they let this happen to themselves? As a husband and father, Roth's helplessness is torturous.The best part of this film is listening to the debate going on inside your own head as you watch. Haneke provides so many subtle moments and even adds to the horror by never actually showing any of the killings. The offscreen sounds and moreso, the faces and reactions of the actors tell us more than we want to know. Haneke is renowned for his Opera productions and one can't help but notice the similarities here.Two particular scenes really stand out for me. The opening sequence filmed alternately from above and in the cab of the vehicle complete with a foreshadowing duel between classical music and Marilyn Manson; and the long take of Naomi Watts struggling to get free after the boys first leave the house. Both are unsettling and amazing.
Greetings again from the darkness. With an extended tracking shot to open the film, we follow Ryan Gosling, a motorcycle stunt rider, from his trailer through the carnival grounds and right into the metal sphere with his co-riders. It's an exhilarating start to the film and introduces Luke (Gosling) as a heavily tatted star attraction on the carnival circuit.This is director Derek Cianfrance's follow-up to his 2010 critically acclaimed Blue Valentine. While that film painfully presented the misery of a bad marriage, this latest shows multi-generational fallout from poor decisions and even worse father-son relationships. Cianfrance has quite an eye for well-intentioned, but inadequate personality types. This latest is presented in triptych format ... three distinct story divisions. The first segment is mesmerizing and follows Luke's attempt to "do right" by his newly discovered infant son - the result of last year's carnival trip to this same town and a tryst with Romina, a local gal played by Eva Mendes.Gosling is especially effective (yet again) as he falls in with local mechanic played by a terrific Ben Mendelsohn (frightening in Animal Kingdom). The two hatch a scheme to capitalize on Luke's bike riding skills by robbing banks. These "jobs" allow us to see the other side of Luke, who seems sincere in his desire to provide for the child and win back Romina. Things go badly when Luke crosses paths with rookie street cop Avery Cross (played by Bradley Cooper). Watching Gosling's contradictory personalities is quite amazing ... he flips from quietly charming to cold-blooded brutal bank robber in the blink of an eye.The story then shifts to follow Avery and his strained relations with his wife (Rose Byrne), their infant son, and Avery's former state Supreme Court judge father (Harris Yulin). A sub-plot brings in police department corruption led by ... who else? ... Ray Liotta. Mr. Liotta still possesses the ability to scare the crap out of his fellow actors and anyone watching the movie. This corruption and the idealistic and ambitious nature of Avery aren't a very pleasant mixture, but it sets the stage for the final act.Flashing forward 15 years, brings us to a fairly predictable situation that still proves interesting. The previous stories focused on the failed relationships of Luke and his father, Luke and his mis-fired attempt at being a dad, and the awkwardness of Avery and his father. Now we see the resulting mess that are the two now teenage boys. The sons are played by Emory Cohen and Dane DeHaan (who was memorable as Cricket in Lawless). DeHaan especially shines as the Gosling/Mendes prodigy.Sean Bobbitt is the film's Director of Photography and he deserves special mention for his work with Cianfrance in bringing a different and intimate look to the characters, setting and story. Also, Mike Patton's unusual score fits perfectly and keeps the viewer on track. This is a very uncomfortable movie to watch, but those who enjoy tough, artsy films will be rewarded. www.MovieReviewsFromTheDark.wordpress.com
Greetings again from the darkness. Plenty of hating going on by the real film critics for this update of the 80's TV series. What I saw was a fun, over-the-top action film designed to explode with entertainment value. There are plenty of things that prevent this from being a great movie, but nothing that prevents it from being a good time at the local cinema.Writer/Director Joe Carnahan makes some of the same mistakes he made in "Smokin' Aces", but overall, he lets the bigger than life characters control the film ... well, except when the sometimes-ridiculous action sequences take over. His casting choices are interesting: Liam Neesom as Hannibal (originally played by George Peppard), Bradley Cooper as pretty boy charmer "Face" (Dirk Benedict on the series), "District 9" actor Sharlto Copley as scene-stealing daredevil Murdock (was Dwight Schultz) and UFC bad boy Quinton "Rampage" Jackson replacing the iconic Mr. T as B.A. Baracus.Neesom handles the Hannibal role with an all-knowing smirk, a Cuban cigar and the knowledge that he is mostly the straight man here. Cooper relishes the chance to remove his shirt and flash his dimples and blue eyes. Copley provides much hope for his acting future since he pretty much takes over the screen in all of his scenes. Jackson, on the other hand, really should consider going back to the UFC world - his acting skills are responsible for some of the weakest moments in the film.I purposefully chose "some of the weakest moments" so as to make a real point in regards to the deflater of the film. The deflater is the one who causes the film to go flat (the air from the balloon) every time he/she is on screen. Without question, the A-Team deflater is Jessica Biel. Apparently straight from the Elizabeth Berkley school of acting, Biel continues to land gigs because producers find her attractive. The attribute of "attractiveness" is only effective for photographs if not teamed with some type of acting ability. When Ms. Biel holds a gun, emotes or reads a line, the viewer feels nothing but letdown. Despite the carnage reaped by the boys, she out-kills them with her screen time.The good news is that there are some really funny lines and moments despite the fantastical nature of the action sequences. Also Carnahan and co-writer Brian Bloom (who also plays bad guy Pike) have done an admirable job of paying tribute to the original series. Dirk Benedict and Dwight Schultz have cameos and a brief scene post-credits. Mr. T reportedly rejected a chance to appear and, of course, George Peppard passed many years ago. We even get a tribute (albeit a quick one) to the A-Team van ... and it's nice to hear the familiar sounds of the theme song and series opening.
Greetings again from the darkness. With an all out frontal assault on our fears of what happens while we sleep, writer/director Oren Peli, takes a page from Blair Witch Project and presents this as actual footage. Instead of a bunch of nausea-inducing, running through the woods holding a camera ... Peli gives us a slightly more controlled video package from our lead players, Micah and Katie.Neither Micah nor Katie have any real acting ability, and I believe were cast because they come across as believable. Actually, as the movie went on, I found both a bit annoying and found myself rooting for the demon after awhile. Seriously, there are some very creepy moments which I won't give away and I did enjoy the approach of the stalking demon, instead of a possessed house.As for a fright factor, I still rank The Shining and Poltergeist as far superior but these days, any horror film that doesn't involve major slashers has to be commended. And congratulations to the team for creating a huge film phenomena with very little money.
Greetings again from the darkness. As is customary, the Oscar winner for Best Foreign Language film finally makes it to Dallas in April AFTER the awards show is long forgotten (well, except for the half-assed hosting job by James Franco). Denmark's entry, directed by Susanne Bier (Things We Lost in the Fire), is overflowing with every human emotion one can imagine. However, the battle between two emotions is most prevalent: misplaced revenge and forgiveness.At it's core, this is a story of two fathers and two sons. The presentation is quite odd in that it tries desperately to tie in all spectrum of human emotion and economic standing. Anton (Mikael Persbrandt from the excellent 2008 "Everlasting Moments") travels back and forth between an African refugee camp where he serves as a doctor, and his upscale Denmark home where he is separated from his wife and trying to set a good example for his son Elias (Markus Rygaard).The other father is Claus (Ulrich Thomsen) whose relationship with his son Christian (William Johnk Nielsen) is flat out terrible. Christian's mother has recently lost her battle with cancer and it has caused a rift between these two ... and lit a fire of anger in young Christian.Soon enough Christian stumbles upon Elias being bullied at school. His flaming temper sets the bully straight with a violent act, creating a bond between Elias and Christian. Sadly Christian continues to spin off axis and he drags Elias along.As a doctor in the camp, Anton constantly strives to repair the despicable acts of the local town bully. This is used to contrast with what's going on with his own son at home. There are many parts of the film that are difficult to watch, especially as Christian just loses his grip on reality.While I certainly see the excellence in the film, I believe the filmmakers tried too hard to stage the contrast. The story of the boys was plenty powerful enough to carry a film. Also, the doctor in the camp could have made a chilling movie on it's own. Instead we gets bits of each and that's fine ... just not what it might have been.
Greetings again from the darkness. No secret that I really enjoyed the first Iron Man movie a couple of years ago. For 2, we get the return of key players: Robert Downey, jr as Tony Stark, Gwyneth Paltrow as Pepper Potts, and Jon Favreau as the director. We also get an onslaught of new players: Mickey Rourke as Ivan Vanko/Whiplash, Sam Rockwell as Justin Hammer, Scarlett Johansson as Natalie/Natasha/Black Widow, Garry Shandling as Senator Stern and Don Cheadle (replacing Terence Howard) as War Machine.Onslaught may be the best word I can use to describe the film. It is an onslaught to the senses. There are so many characters - both good and bad. There are so many explosions, fights and booms that we resist the urge to blink. There is so much overlapping and oddly paced dialogue that we strain to fill in the blanks. And what of the inside jokes and "advertising" for future Avengers fun? OK, maybe "Fun" is the key word, not onslaught. These characters are a blast (pun, slightly intended). Watching a creepy Mickey Rourke plot revenge in the Russian darkness is terrific. Sam Rockwell chewing scenery is not to be missed. Garry Shandling's snarky senator is a hoot, especially at the end. And I have been surfing the net all night searching for a suitcase sized Iron Man suit. OK, not really ... but that was super cool.The best I can offer here is that this is an onslaught of fun. The great and talented Justin Theroux was brought in to script the multitude of players and story lines ... he must be a master juggler as none get cheated in their screen time. Even Samuel L Jackson as Nick Fury is given a much heavier workload than in part one - setting the stage for his NINE scheduled film appearances as Mr. Fury.The film is huge and spectacular, but falls just short of the first one for a single reason. The wow of discovery can only be had once. That's not a knock on this one, but timing is crucial. Must also mention the brilliance of Robert Downey, Jr who seems born to play Tony Stark. Of course, the brilliance of Mr. Downey is that he always seems born to play his roles. He is a great actor ... check his ability to spout wise cracking one-liners and then mix in a couple of actually tender moments with Paltrow's Pepper Potts. Not many actors could do that effectively. He pulls it off seamlessly.What really matters is that it's a fun trip to theatre. Don't expect this year's Best Picture winner. Expect to laugh and be visually wowed. I certainly was.
Greetings again from the darkness. My reaction to this film is that no way it gets made and no way anyone would care ... unless Sophia Coppola was involved. With her involvement, our approach as a viewer is totally different. She has lived this life and, more importantly, observed this life since she was an infant. She captures details and minutiae that no other writer or director would even sense.Stephen Dorff plays Johnny Marco, a very successful movie star who is holed up at the infamous Château Marmont. This is the Hollywood retreat where celebs go to disappear. Marco has gone a step beyond retreat. He is lost. Even his daughter Cleo, played by Elle Fanning, can't find him. He dutifully fulfills his movie star responsibilities: press junkets, photography sessions, awards ceremonies, etc. He plays video games with his daughter with the same emotion that he poses for pictures or answers questions from reporters. He is a shell of a man and he is beginning to see that himself.The film displays all the trappings of stardom and shows that no stream of Ferrari's, strippers, fans, supermodels, international trips or pile of money can bring personal fulfillment. The man that has everything can still have nothing. Sound a bit depressing? Well it is. But it's also a nice little peek behind the celebrity curtain.A ride in the elevator with Benecio del Toro is no more substantive than a party in his room filled with beautiful people who just want to be seen ... or do what some people do with celebrities. Isolation can happen in plain site and Ms. Coppola has proved herself to be quite the expert with this film and her even better film, Lost in Translation.
Greetings again from the darkness. My initial reaction upon seeing this opening day was that some fan boys are not going to be happy. Of course, this happens every time Hollywood makes changes to the original comic book material in hopes of attracting massive box office numbers. While I recognize many of the "flaws", I found this to be an interesting turn on the Tony Stark/Iron Man series.Shane Black was brought in to direct and help write the script. Mr. Black is best known for his crackling buddy dialogue in movies like Lethal Weapon and Kiss Kiss Bang Bang (also with Robert Downey Jr), but doesn't have significant directorial experience (his most recent effort was KKBB 5 years ago). My belief has always been that what sets this franchise apart is Robert Downey Jr's take on Tony Stark. A wise-cracking billionaire playboy technology and mechanical genius searching for his true identity. Mr. Black re-focuses the story on Stark. In fact, he basically takes everything away and has him start over.Regardless of the story, many line up for these movies to see the special effects and the bad guys. The special effects are everywhere ... and loud ... and massive. The trailer shows a clip of Stark's Malibu mansion being destroyed, but the entire segment is quite impressive. The number of Iron Man suits seems unlimited at times and the big finale gave me the same feeling of a 4th of July fireworks display when it ends with so many clumps of fireworks being fired at once, that the impact is dulled. As for the bad guys, The Mandarin is one of the most fierce opponents faced by Iron Man in the comics. His portrayal here by Ben Kingsley is a blast to watch, but will undoubtedly upset the true fanboys. Guy Pearce plays Aldrich Killian, a demented mastermind, once snubbed by Stark - in a scene we witness in flashback.My preference here is to focus on the fun elements since that's clearly what Marvel and Black are shooting for. Jon Favreau directed the first two entries in the franchise and here takes on a slightly bigger role as head of security for the Stark corporation ... and he provides some comic relief. Pepper Potts (Gwyneth Paltrow) finally gets to do more than roll her eyes, but she still has her damsel in distress moments. Don Cheadle returns as Col. Rhodes ... or War Machine ... now known as Iron Patriot, but mostly he is just waiting for his own movie. Rebecca Hall has some screen time as a smart woman who is not so wise in her choosing of partners. No comment. Ty Simpkins plays Harley, a country boy who helps Stark in his time of need. James Badge Dale, Miguel Ferrer, William Sadler, and Dale Dickey all have strong moments, but therein lies what may be the film's biggest weakness.It's an incredibly impressive film to watch ... giant visuals, really good actors and quick, witty dialogue. But there seems to be an overload of each of these things. Guy Pearce's character is woefully underdeveloped. I so wanted more of his backstory and motivation. Same with Harley, the boy. Much could have been done with that. Miguel Ferrer, always a worthy opponent, must have had his best scenes left in editing. The scene with Ben Kingsley, Don Cheadle and Robert Downey Jr, may have been the best in the movie simply because we got a real peak at each of these character's personality. That's way more fun that another explosion! The film pummels us with action, probably has too much Tony Stark and too little Iron Man for the fanboys, throws in a hard-to-swallow sub-plot regarding Anxiety issues for Stark, and underutilizes Guy Pearce in what could have been a world class evil doer. Still, despite all of that, it's fun to watch and Robert Downey Jr will always be Iron Man!
Greetings again from the darkness. I really do get it. 10 years of ideas, dreams and pent up frustrations. Writer/director Troy Duff has wanted (and deserved) a sequel to his original Boondock Saints, and after all the rumors and near misses, it's finally here ... with guns and f-bombs blazing.Sean Patrick Flannery (Conner), Norman Reedus (Murphy) and Billy Connolly (Poppa) are back as the vengeance-seeking McManus clan. The film begins with the boys living a quiet life of solitude on a sheep farm in Ireland. Things change quickly when a priest is murdered in Boston and the killer makes it look like our boys are responsible.Presented as now dead, Willem Dafoe's Agent Paul Smecker (the best part of the first film), has hand-chosen his successor. Unfortunately, it is Julie Benz (the worst part of the stunningly original cable series "Dexter"). We are supposed to believe that Eunice Bloom (Benz) has the same crime scene 6th sense of Smecker, while sporting the absolute worst southern accent in movie history. She teams with the 3 remaining Boston detectives from the original to "assist" the boys on their mission. Oh and on the boat ride over, the McMurphy brothers pick up some comedy relief as a sidekick in the terrific Clifton Collins (Romeo).There are many humorous moments, tons of gratuitous violence (noted by Murphy in an elevator), some horrific editing, a nod to Tarantino and Rodriguez, and a full explanation of Poppa's history. That history is tied to an interesting character played by Peter Fonda, which makes for an entertaining sequence shot in a rundown greenhouse.Mr. Duffy has no shortage of ideas and, for the most part, provides an entertaining film ... almost in tribute to the original. Not sure how many new fans he will make, but he has certainly satisfied the original cult following. Oh, and make no mistake, the last few minutes of the film play like the opening of the next round.
Greetings again from the darkness. I went way too many years without watching this movie again, so when Cinemark included it in the summer classic film series, I was in my seat nice and early. Mention this movie and the first thing people do is quote one of the most famous lines in movie history: "What we have here is failure to communicate." No question that's a great line. But there is so much more to this movie and it holds up beautifully 45 years later.Based on the novel by Donn Pearce, who spent two years on a chain-gang, this is the story of Luke (Paul Newman) who just can't bring himself to conform to the rules, regardless whether those be the rules of the military, society, prison, or those self-imposed by the convicts. We are introduced to Luke as he drunkenly cuts off the top of parking meters on main street of a small town. Later, in a throw away line, we learn he was gaining revenge on someone. It's the clear indication that while he doesn't always want to fit in, Luke clearly knows right from wrong.There are so many terrific scenes in this film, that it's not possible to discuss each. Every scene with the prison warden, played by Strother Martin, is intense. Each of the Boss guards are frightening, especially Morgan Woodward as the sharpshooter behind the mirrored shades. There are numerous impactful scenes featuring the group of convicts. Even though we learn little about the individuals, we realize the fragile male psyche is on full display. Despite the power of all of these characters and scenes, the real strength of the film is the relationship between Luke and Dragline (George Kennedy). Watching the early cat and mouse game, and the subsequent transfer of power, feature two amazing actors at the top of their game.George Kennedy rightfully won the Best Supporting Actor award and continued on to become one of the most successful and prolific character actors of the 70's and 80's, and his career culminated with his iconic role in the Naked Gun series. As for Paul Newman, this is one of his best performance in a long line of standout performances. This one is in the middle stage of his career and he exuded manliness with a touch of sensitivity. He and Strother Martin would meet again in one of the best sequences of Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid.Watching Luke win over all the convicts, including the previous leader played by Kennedy is stunning, yet gut-wrenching when offset by the scenes with the guards who are hell bent on getting Luke to understand his place. They understand the risk he poses to the systematic rhythms of the prison.The supporting cast is downright incredible. This was the feature film debut for: Ralph Waite (4 years later he became the beloved paternal figure of TV's The Waltons); Joe Don Baker(Buford Pusser from Walking Tall); James Gammon (later the crusty manager in Major League); and Anthony Zerbe, another iconic character actor of the 70's and 80's. Also featured are Dennis Hopper, Harry Dean Stanton (singing a few songs), Wayne Rogers (from MASH), Richard Davalos (James Dean's brother Aron in East of Eden), and Rance Howard (Ron's dad as the sheriff). In a brief, but truly great scene, Jo Van Fleet (also from East of Eden), appears as Arletta, and we quickly understand Luke's background.Often overlooked by film historians, "Lucille" putting on a show for the convicts as she washes her car, is a scene that is meant for more than titillation. As she creatively buffs the windows, the reaction of the convicts reminds us that these are still men and no amount of humiliation and degradation can change that. One of my friends argues that Joy Harmon was clearly cheated out of an Oscar for this scene.The score is the handy work of Lalo Schifrin and expertly captures the moment ... especially in the black top scene. Director Stuart Rosenberg was known only for his TV work when he got this script. He went on to direct another prison movie in 1980 called Brubaker. Starring Newman's Butch Cassidy co-star Robert Redford, the film was a decent prison drama, but not at the level of Cool Hand Luke ... which by the way, was installed into the National Film Registry in 2005.
Greetings again from the darkness. Just couldn't wait to see this one on the big screen for the first time. It's a mystery why this film doesn't get the same love and respect as some of the others from this era. It is one of Humphrey Bogart's finest performances and one of director Nicholas Ray's first films. It also has a terrific performance by Gloria Grahame, who most will recognize as Violet from "It's a Wonderful Life".Andrew Solt wrote the screenplay based on the novel by Dorothy B. Huges. With numerous changes to the source material, we get Bogie in quite a unique role. He plays Dixon Steele, an aging writer accused of murder. His alibi is his beautiful new neighbor (Grahame) who may or may not be telling the truth to the police. Of course, Steele himself may or may not be telling the truth. In fact, he has such a history of flashing a violent temper, that after he punches a director, his friends just laugh it off saying "oh, that's just Dix".The scenes with Grahame and Bogart are tremendous and we certainly see that they both have secrets, as well as difficulty in accepting happiness. Support work is provided by Frank Lovejoy as Det Brub Nicolai. His wife Sylvia is played by Jeff Donnell, who went on to a long run on General Hospital. Martha Stewart (no not that one) plays Mildred, the perky murdered girl ... well, perky before the murder. Art Smith plays Steele's long suffering agent and only true friend.The film skirts film noir traits, but is equal parts murder mystery and tragic love story. The ending is quite different than the first one Ray filmed, but it is one of the most powerful, emotional endings we have ever received from Hollywood. Some of the behind the scenes scoop make this one even more fascinating. Ray and Grahame were still married during filming, but they no longer lived together. Their marriage ended formally soon after when Ray caught her in bed with his son. Her stepson! If you are a Bogart fan, you need to see this one for his performance. He goes much deeper than in his earlier roles, and watching him teeter between charmer and jerk is spellbinding. His demeanor leaves us doubting not whether he is capable of murder, but rather if he committed THIS one.
Greetings again from the darkness. This is not your typical love story and most certainly not a typical chick flick. It is an odd story about some odd people ... not they are evil or exotic or anything so romantic ... just odd. Or maybe the fact that they are actually so normal is what makes them seem so odd? Most movies are about the eccentric types, not the everyday lonely-hearts just trying to find their way.Director James Gray has a couple of nice credits to his name with "We Own the Night" and "Little Odessa". He obviously believes in Joaquin Phoenix as an actor, and rightly so. While Mr. Phoenix doesn't make for much of a talk show guest, he is unquestionably a top notch actor. Sadly, the two best actors in the 30-35 age group are now no longer acting. Heath Ledger is dead and Joaquin is turning hip-hop. Two losses for movie lovers.Somehow this story had me caring about these three characters even though I found nothing really appealing about any of them. Phoenix's character is clinically diagnosed, Gwyneth Paltrow's character is a misguided mess and Vinessa Shaw is somehow attracted to the loopy and off-kilter Phoenix, proclaiming she will take care of him.Toss in the always interesting Elias Koteas and Isabella Rossallini and we see how the pain, uncertainty and loneliness runs through so many. An understated Rossallini perfectly captures the desperate longings of a mother who just wants her son to be happy and normal. Koteas' character could have used another scene, but he is powerful in the restaurant.Many will find fault with the ending, but I found it to be fitting and just. Paltrow chasing her dream, Shaw getting what she wants and Phoenix taking a shot at life.
Greetings again from the darkness. This is certainly not the typical lame, formulaic action picture that we have come to expect most every January. Director Joe Carnahan teamed with Ian MacKenzie Jeffers to write a strong script based on Jeffers' original short story. With a touch of spirituality mixed with an excruciatingly intense story of survival, this film is more of an emotional experience than one might expect based on the trailer.The film opens as Ottway (Liam Neeson) is composing a letter to his beloved wife (Anne Openshaw). At first we aren't sure of their story, only that this was a painful loss for him and he is washing away his sins with an apparent final letter. We later learn more through flashbacks as she is the "happy place" into which he retreats in moments of stress ... and there are certainly no shortages of that! We learn that Ottway is a hired sharpshooter to protect the roughnecks on assignment in Alaska. We see him in action as he nails a charging wolf.After the first spiritual interruption at a key moment for Ottway, we next see him and a group of the workers boarding a plane to escape the storm. The plane crashes, killing most onboard and stranding the small group of survivors in a barren, frozen wasteland of Alaskan wilderness. If only that were their biggest problem. Additionally they are being systematically hunted by a pack of ferocious wolves. Ottway's experience and personality lead him to the position of group leader as they look for a way out.There have been many fine survival movies including The Edge (Alec Baldwin, Anthony Hopkins), Deliverance, and The Thing. We even get a wise-crack about the movie Alive, where the plane crash survivors stooped to cannibalism. While I am a fan of all of those movies, none are as full of tension and intensity as this one is, from beginning to end. What really sets this one apart from many is not the action scenes, but the character development. We actually see the character of these men evolve as their plight worsens. Watch for the similarities between man and beast as Diaz (Frank Grillo) challenges Ottway.The other supporting cast members include Dallas Roberts and Dermot Mulroney, but the strength of this movie stems from the script and the casting of Liam Neeson. Supposedly Bradley Cooper was originally cast, and later replaced by Mr. Neeson. It's probably safe to say that my comments would not be as favorable if that change had not occurred. Kudos to director Carnahan who gave us another very intense film called Narc. Since then, he has only delivered shallow works like The A-Team and Smokin' Aces. Here he pays so much attention to detail ... like a wolf paw print in the snow as it slowly fills with blood. Don't be scared away thinking this is just another macho action film. It is much more and, at times, even a very quiet and deep piece of filmmaking ... that will leave you exhausted!
Greetings again from the darkness. Exactly as you might expect ... a chick flick with one layer. No problem with a movie that doesn't try to be something it's not. Director Anne Fletcher seems to be the straight-forward type and she is making a good living with it. Doesn't hurt when your simple, predictable lines are played out by Katherine Heigl, Edward Burns, James Marsden and the underrated Judy Greer.Heigl ("Knocked Up", "Grey's Anatomy") is nice to look at and has excellent comedic timing and a strong screen presence. Hopefully she doesn't settle for just straight up comedy as I would like to see her tackle some serious material in the next year or two (see Scarlett Johansson, Charlize Theron, Naomi Watts). Marsden is certainly an up and comer ("Hairspray") who has the looks to go with his talent. Judy Greer seems to have taken over the Joan Cusack roles of playing second fiddle and then stealing every scene. Over the top a couple of times here, but her scene with Heigl after the slide show is top shelf stuff.Basic premise is pretty funny but there are no twists and turns. Still for the chick flick formula, it is passable thanks to the strong cast. Biggest problem is the casting of Malin Akerman as the "pretty" sister. That's Hollywood's notion ... Heigl gets the nod any day in the real world.
Greetings again from the darkness. Film interpretation of the play starring the same two leads, standout director Ron Howard evidently demanded Mr. Langella and Mr. Sheen be cast in their stage roles. What a simple and brilliant decision ... these two are captivating.Peter Morgan is the playwright and also wrote the screenplay, so the key players were intimately familiar and engaged in the material. Nowhere is that more evident than the ferocious performance of Frank Langella as former President Nixon. Langella's performance reminds of Forrest Whitaker as Idi Amin in "Last King of Scotland" (not coincidentally penned by Mr. Morgan). The nuances of his performance are fascinating and can only be appreciated through multiple viewings. His gait, mannerisms, voice and expressions capture the ego, power and vulnerability of this man.Overshadowed by Langella's performance, Michael Sheen does an outstanding job as David Frost, the performer/interviewer that really just jumped into this thing for ratings. The importance of the event did not hit him until much later. Sheen is best known for his stellar work as Tony Blair in "The Queen" (also written by Peter Morgan), but I believe this may even be better.Strong support work from the cast of Oliver Platt, Sam Rockwell, Kevin Bacon, Mattew McFayden, Toby Jones as super-agent Swifty Lazar and Rebecca Hall (most recent of "Vicki Cristina Barcelona"). Nice to see Mr. Howard cast his brother Clint and father Rance again. Something cool about the family togetherness.While the film really makes me want to re-visit the original interviews from 1977, it makes me a bit sad that Gen X and Gen Y'ers probably don't understand the lasting impact Nixon and Watergate and the interviews have had on political reporting in general and politicians in general. Here we get a glimpse of the megalomania that goes along with a lifelong dream of becoming President of the United States. While there is certainly differences in perception of each of the men who have held office, there is unquestionably a driving force of power that motivates them. Howard and his fellow project players do a nice job of capturing that.
Greetings again from the darkness. A UK version of a teen comedy is quite a different experience than a US teen comedy. Maybe it's the source material from Joe Dunthorne's novel or maybe it's the deft touch of first time director Richard Ayoade. Either way, there is much more depth and emotion involved here ... not just sight gags.The two leads are Craig Roberts as Oliver and Yasmin Paige as Jordana. Watching the way these two work so hard at not appearing to like each other perfectly captures the teen dance. Once they do get together, the film does a nice job of creating those perfect moments of doubt, discovery and subtle humiliation.Oliver is carrying quite the burden. He strives to be the perfect boyfriend, but is also very concerned about the slow collapse of his parents' marriage. This problem is enhanced when his mom's old lover moves in across the street. Graham Purvis is some self-proclaimed mystic healer who somehow gets people to pay attention to his words, despite driving around town in a van with his face painted on the side.Oliver's parents are played by Noah Taylor and Sally Hawkins. Taylor is superb as the quietly suffering loner who has no concept of what makes a relationship. Hawkins is the disillusioned wife eager to recapture the magic of her youth ... even if it is with a goofball mystic played by Paddy Considine.I have to point out that Craig Roberts, who plays Oliver, is the spitting image of a young Bud Cort ... and even has some of Cort's mannerisms from the classic Harold and Maude. Mostly Oliver and Jordana are just two regular teenagers fighting angst, depression and self-doubt, not to mention REAL issues like disinterested parents and a very sick mother. Turns out, being a teen is every bit as tough in the UK as it is in the US ... but the dialogue is much better!
Greetings again from the darkness. I have enjoyed Mr. Allen's resurgence and obviously Scarlett Johansson has played the role of his muse. VCB takes a step up even from his most recent offerings both because of Allen's writing and the amazing cast.Scarlett teams with Rebecca Hall, a relative unknown in the U.S. (best known for "The Prestige" and "Wide Saragasso Sea") to play Cristina and Vicki, two American girls spending the summer in Spain. Scarlett is the free spirit, Rebecca is the engaged, practical one. The film takes off when they are both propositioned by a local painter played brilliantly by Javier Bardem, back in his most macho and amorous element after his trip down psycho road in "No Country for Old Men".There are no coin flips for Bardem's character. He wants everything, including both Scarlett and Rebecca. That would be enough for most films, but not for Woody! We are then treated to Bardem's ex-wife, played explosively by Penelope Cruz. She is amazing as the jealous, suicidal artist who transitions into the warm and caring mentor in a very odd communal setting with Scarlett and Javier.What adds the element of Allen brilliance here is the seemingly secondary character of Vicky played by Rebecca Hall. In reality, she is the heart of the story. Feeling trapped into a marriage to a Steve Guttenberg clone played by Chris Messina, Rebecca doesn't know how to handle the awakening since her Javier moment. Woody really pushes us on the topics of love, desire, freedom, loyalty, commitment and marriage. And if you need just an element of creepiness, Rebecca Hall's speech pattern and mannerisms remind me of Woody's-ex, Mia Farrow. Maybe that's why he cast a relative unknown?? Some of Woody's best writing in a long time and a pleasure to watch these fine actors execute. The best scenes are Javier and Penelope, and Javier and Rebecca. Throw in a beautiful soundtrack of Spainish guitar and you have a truly fine film.
Greetings again from the darkness. Fantasy adventure films based on popular novels have certainly posted a track record of box office success  sometimes in record-setting style. However, not every entry into this genre need be a Goliath like the "Harry Potter" or "The Lord of the Rings" franchises. There is always room for simpler and still-creative movie-making like The NeverEnding Story or Hansel & Gretel: Witch Hunters. Based on Joseph Delancey's "The Wardstone Chronicles" (17 novels), this latest from Russian director Sergey Bodrov strives to be something special. Though it falls short of such a lofty goal, it still provides an entertaining onslaught to the senses.A release date delayed by two years is rarely a good sign for a movie, though the official word blames it on legal issues between studio and distributor. No matter to us viewers, as what we care about is seeing something new and exciting. The steady stream of 3D special effects have their moments, but it's impossible not to notice the out-of-focus issues that abound in post-production 3D. Still the swooping camera work through the mountains, Grand Canyon, bodies of water, and very cool looking temples and walled cities, provide the "epic" look a film like this must offer. An extremely heavy dose of CGI must have kept quite a few programmers employed, and the effects bounce between quite impressive and totally flat. Personally, I never get tired of seeing angry dragons  even if it happens 3 or 4 times in the same movie.Let's talk about Jeff Bridges as Master Gregory, the town spook (creature hunter). Evidently Mr Bridges only accepts roles these days that don't require a haircut  or even a shower. But what's with that voice? The first time Master Gregory opens his mouth, I immediately thought it sounded like his Rooster Cogburn in True Grit taking a big swig of bourbon and, before swallowing, delivering his lines of dialogue. This voice is a creative choice that crashes and burns. Dialogue is of little use if the audience can't understand. As challenging as it was for me, it's expected that most of the target market will be totally lost in Gregory's exchanges with his apprentice or his sidekick or any of the wicked witches.The obvious attempt to set up a franchise, or at least a sequel, suffers from another fatal error. Asking Ben Barnes (playing apprentice Tom Ward) to carry the torch is just not reasonable. His wooden approach in The Chronicles of Narnia reminded of Orlando Bloom (that's not a compliment), and this outing just reinforces that original impression. The hulking sidekick Tusk is played by John DeSantis, and rather than stress his loyalty, we get a few lame jokes at his expense. Julianne Moore takes on the role of the powerful witch Mother Malkin, and though she gives it a shot, the role is simply underwritten and fizzles rather than sizzles. Other support work comes from Alicia Vikander (A Royal Affair) as a young witch smitten with the apprentice, Olivia Williams as the mother-with-a-secret to the apprentice, while Jason Scott Lee and Djimon Hounsou each play talented, other worldly creatures.It's a bit surprising that the story isn't more complex and the characters better developed given the screen writing team of Charles Leavitt (Blood Diamond) and Steven Knight (Dirty Pretty Things, Locke, "Peaky Blinders"). We just never get a chance to understand the legacy of Master Gregory and his spurned girlfriend-witch Mother Malkin. We also are expected to take a huge leap of faith when the apprentice can't accurately throw a knife in one scene, and shortly he is battling assassins, witches and other creatures. Perhaps the only explanation needed is that he is a "son of a witch".Big Lebowski fans will get a kick out of seeing Jeff Bridges and Julianne Moore reunited on screen, even if we wish their battles were fiercer. And while it's nice to learn that four arms can really improve one's swordplay, it's a bit disappointing to miss out on the true power of a Blood Moon. Enjoy the visuals, duck from the dragons, and strain to understand the words coming out of the mouth of Master Gregory  there is some entertainment value here.
Greetings again from the darkness. The story of Secretariat is legendary in the world of thoroughbred racing. Being a sports fan, it is always fascinating to witness domination by a singular athlete - Michael Jordan, Tiger Woods, Roger Federer. Secretariat was the Michael Jordan of racing. In 1973, Big Red dominated racing like no other.What makes this even more amazing is that Secretariat is actually the second most interesting story ... his owner, Penny Chenery Tweedy (played here by Diane Lane), was his match in competitive spirit. This Disney movie actually spends as much time on Ms. Tweedy as it does the fabulous horse.Disney does what Disney does best. This is an all out feel-good, rah-rah movie in the vein of "Seabiscuit", "The Rookie", "Rudy" and even "Hoosiers". Don't expect in-depth analysis of the racing world or horse training or even horse farm operations. This movie is made to deliver a warm fuzzy via the perseverance of a strong-willed lady and an incredibly majestic animal.Expect some over-the-top touches such as John Malkovich's portrayal of trainer Lucen Laurin, horse-whispering by Ms. Lane, and plenty of heart-string tugging as is customary from the fine folks at Disney. Expect historical facts to be treated a bit lax in some scenes (no mention of 1972 Derby winner Riva Ridge, also from the Chenery stables). Expect none of that to matter as this is a crowd-pleaser, not a documentary.In addition to Mr. Malkovich and Ms. Lane, there is some fine support work from Fred Thompson, James Cromwell and Nelsan Ellis (so great as Lafayette in True Blood). Directed by Randall Wallace, whose most recent directorial effort was 2002's "We Were Soldiers", this is entertainment for all ages and an easy introduction to the champion that was Secretariat.
Greetings again from the darkness. Stephen Hawking would most certainly make anyone's list of the most fascinating people to have overcome severe obstacles in life to achieve greatness. Even today, at age 72, Hawking remains one of the foremost physicists and cosmologists. His extraordinary mind now 50+ years trapped inside a body that failed him, and as we learn, should have killed him by the time he was 23.Director James Marsh is known for his work on two documentaries: Project Nim, and Man On Wire. His flair with reality in those two films is mostly kept in check with this conventional biopic. Based on Jane Hawking's book "Travelling to Infinity: My Life with Stephen", the film does a nice job of showing us the stages of his motor neuron disease, while never digging too deep into the resulting hardships for Stephen or Jane (his wife).Eddie Redmayne (Les Miserable, My Week with Marilyn) delivers the type of performance that often results in awards. His physical contortions capture the Hawking we have all seen, yet he also emotes the charm and wry humor that accompanies his genius. Jane is played by Felicity Jones (so terrific in Like Crazy) and since it's based on her book, we are provided a glimpse into her strength and tenacity as she refuses to give up on Hawking or their relationship.Some basic science is touched upon here - mostly through beer foam on a table or the glowing embers from a fireplace, but it's highly recommended that you read Hawking's best selling book "A Brief History of Time" if you have not already done so. It's written using language so clear and concise, that even I almost understood it! Much more than science, this film is about the tenacity of Jane and her ability to keep Stephen moving forward while still pursuing her own studies and raising their three kids.The evolution of their relationship is deftly handled, even as they each drift away towards others. When the break eventually occurs, it is the one moment in the film where heartfelt emotion is on full display. Oddly enough, it's more relief for both parties than disappointment. In light of the doctor's original estimate of two years to live, this moment is quite poignant.Excellent support work comes courtesy of David Thewlis as Hawking's professor and mentor, Emily Watson as Jane's mother, Simon McBurney as Stephen's dad, Charlie Cox as Jonathan (Jane's second husband), and Maxine Peake as Elaine (Stephen's second wife). Also of note, Harry Lloyd plays Stephen's classmate and friend Brian. Mr. Lloyd is the great, great, great grandson of Charles Dickens.You can see this one without being intimidated by the science, and instead get a glimpse at Hawking's challenges and the strength of Jane.
Greetings again from the darkness. Of course, most Sci-Fi movies beg, borrow and steal from others but this one seemed very familiar, just bigger, faster, stronger (get it??? steroids). Director D.J. Caruso, hot off "Disturbia" tackles a much bigger budget this time, and delivers non-stop action. In fact, there were so many explosions and crashes, I can't believe neither Michael Bay nor Jerry Bruckheimer were involved.Shia LeBeouf delivers another solid performance. His hyper-frenetic energy serves him well now, but I will be interested to see how he develops as an adult actor. Sharing the screen is the amazing Michelle Monaghan, who delivers another in a growing list of top notch performances. She has amazing screen presence and a wide range of emotion - whether screaming and beating Shia, or crying for her son.Billy Bob Thornton, Michael Chiklis and Rosario Dawson are the support here, but the real star is the computer who takes over itself and sends all of these poor people on a wild ride.While there are so many outrageous moments, I will say, none were more difficult to believe than the 3 minutes it took Michelle to change into a cocktail dress, adorn jewelry and high heels, brush her hair and apply make-up. Anyone know another woman who can match that? Suspension of disbelief is certainly required for this one, but I still have a difficult time getting too excited about a festival of explosions and car crashes ... all of which has been done in numerous movies like Mission Impossible, Die Hard, etc. Listening to Julianne Moore's lifeless voice may have been the best part.
Greetings again from the darkness. Finally caught back up to this one after close to 30 years. I have always listed it among my favorite Film Noir movies and now I remember why! The story is not dissimilar to many of the detective films from the 40's and 50's, but this one is based on Daniel Mainwaring's brilliantly titled novel "Buld My Gallows High". It stars ultra-cool Robert Mitchum and an up and coming actor named Kirk Douglas, in just his second film.As with any Film Noir, there must be a woman stirring up trouble for the men who just can't seem to think clearly around them. Here we get two fabulous women who can't be trusted: Jane Greer and Rhonda Fleming. We also get some of the most creative lighting you will ever see in a movie. I am guessing the production budget was very small, but the shadows and darkness work very well for the story. The next best part of this one is the stream of classic lines. Some are funny and others are quite jolting given the seriousness with which they are delivered.The movie is directed by Jacques Tourneur, who also directed "Cat People" just a few years prior. His best scenes here involve Mitchum, Greer and Douglas playing cat and mouse with dialogue, but I also enjoy Rhonda Fleming's brief but impactful appearance.A couple of interesting notes on those involved. Jane Greer was discovered by Howard Hughes and has some pretty frightening things to say about their time together. She was a very young bride to Rudy Vallee, but Hughes broke up the marriage pretty quickly. Ms. Greer also appeared in "Against All Odds" in 1984. That film was basically an updated remake of this film. In that film, she played the mother of Rachel Ward's character. Since this was Kirk Douglas' second film, you can really see how little range he had at this point. Very interesting to compare this to some of his later work.
Greetings again from the darkness. Was actually looking forward to seeing Liam Neeson in an action movie ... especially one written by Luc Besson. Unfortunately, just didn't find this very believable, though the basis for the story is frightening and fascinating.Curious as to why 25 yr old Maggie Grace was cast as 17 yr old Kim. Aren't there any actresses available who actually look that age? Did enjoy the hyper-energetic, thrill seeking character of Amanda, played by David Cassidy's daughter Katie Cassidy.One of my pet peeves in action movies is when the hero can scrunch his shoulders a bit and turn his head while successfully dodging automatic gunfire. Liam would have been killed a few times, especially in the car and on the yacht.I did find Liam's character interesting because of his simmering passion toward the captors and those in his way. Reminded a bit of Matt Damon as Jason Bourne. Still, for a dad digging into the underworld to rescue his daughter, I'll take Paul Schrader's 1979 "Hardcore" with George C Scott. While nowhere near the one-man demolition team that Neeson is, Scott really captures the disgust that a dad would feel.
Greetings again from the darkness. Will Ferrell is one of the funniest guys in show biz. A huge part of comedy is risk. No risk = No comedy. Big time producer, first time director Kent Alterman and "Old School" writer Scot Anderson team up with Ferrell and for some reason play it safe. Very safe. So safe that there are only a few chuckles here and not a single laugh out loud moment.This movie is just not funny. And it has nothing to do with Ferrell going for another sport-based flick. The ABA and the 70's offer a vast array of topics and targets. Sadly most of those are ignored here. As Jackie Moon, the one hit wonder from the music biz, Ferrell acts as the owner, coach, player, ring-leader and promotional face of the Flint Tropics ... the worst team in the ABA. Sadly, none of this matters because there are just no funny bits here.Andre Benjamin, Woody Harrelson, Maura Tierney and David Koechner all go through the motions of their lame dialogue. Will Arnett and Andrew Daly as the team radio announcers had my hopes up initially, but alas, turned out to be another one-trick pony. I felt most sorry for Patti LaBelle and Jackie Earle Haley who had to be humiliated to even read their lines.Nothing is more difficult than comedy and nothing is more pathetic than an unfunny comedy. The weak attempts at drama are always overshadowed by an over the top moment that falls flat ... a bear loose in the arena, a tantrum in the league office, disco dancing, team dancers, etc. The best two moments are the throw-away line about Henry Ford and the introduction of the Alley Oop ... straight from heaven.As if all this wasn't distressing enough, before the film started we were "treated" to the trailer of Ferrell's next movie ... a reteaming with John C. Riley. When a comedy trailer has no laughs, the hopes for the movie are extremely low. Maybe it is time for Ferrell to grow up and play other people's stuff ... he was great in "Stranger Than Fiction". The money train is tough to jump from, but one's dignity has to be worth something.
Greetings again from the darkness. The most interesting aspect of this film is that it is based on a story by the great Steve Martin. Most of the positives end there. A politically charged, espionage thriller with very little excitement and almost no suspense will have a difficult time gathering much of a following. The filmmakers (director Jeffrey Nochmanoff in his first real feature) better hope for a very strong opening.The usually great Don Cheadle seems pretty disinterested in his lead role here, though the character seemed to be a very complicated guy with multiple dimensions ... most of which we gather through a glossed over glance. For some reason, Guy Pearce was given the task of speaking like Matthew McConaughey's brother, which in itself is a bit entertaining. The best characters were those played by Neal McDonough as Pearce's partner and Said Taghmaoui ("Vantage Point", "Kite Runner", "Hidalgo") as Cheadle's "inside" contact. Always nice to see Archie Panjabi ("Bend it Like Beckham", "A Good Year") but the biggest head scratcher was the lack of development for Jeff Daniels' character.Anyway, the film attempts to deliver a message about who the good guys really are when both sides are attacking each other, but it just comes up short in every aspect.
Greetings again from the darkness. Great literature seldom makes for great cinema. The mediums are vastly different. However great literature, in the right hands, can make for very entertaining cinema. Such is the case with Guy Ritchie's interpretation of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's greatest character.Mr. Ritchie provides us with quite a departure from the Basil Rathbone and Nigel Bruce "Holmes and Watson". Here we get dazzling special effects and near super-human feats and stunts. Another twist is that this Holmes here is no meticulous, fastidious bore in real life. In fact, he lives more like a frat boy or rock star - replete with trashed room and bouts of isolation.What is not missing is Holmes' world class attention to detail. The story here is multi-layered and actually very interesting, if not a bit high-minded and high-concept. The still-under-construction Tower Bridge plays a role in the film and the bleakness and gray of London is captured perfectly.Of course, I won't reveal any details of the story other than to say the "good" guys are out to get a real bad guy here ... wonderfully played by the always solid Mark Strong, who may or may not be dead. That always makes for an interesting case! Support from Rachel McAdams and Eddie Marsan are fine, but Robert Downey Jr and Jude Law are the real stars as Holmes and Watson. As odd as it seems, they really do have a buddy factor that works well on screen. Downey's physicality has always set him apart from many contemporary actors ... he moves like a dancer and fights like a champion. Jude Law is often too pretty-boy for me, but he really does a nice job of capturing the reluctant sidekick with complimentary skills.This is a BIG movie! It is made to be a rollicking good time with tons of popcorn munched. Smaller kids will not be able to follow the story, but anyone who has read a Holmes story (and isn't against a little artistic license) should see the film. It is extremely entertaining and fun to watch.
Greetings again from the darkness. Uninspired sequels often prove quite annoying for a true movie fan. However, dedicated followers of a franchise often overlook the flaws and are just happy to see their familiar heroes back on screen. Back for a third time in 15 years, Agents J (Will Smith) and K (Tommy Lee Jones) show they can do this in their sleep ... Mr. Jones may have actually dozed off a couple of times.Fortunately there are a couple of things that make this one entertaining enough. Josh Brolin's spot on imitation of Tommy Lee Jones may be better than the real thing. Brolin seems to be enjoying himself and realizes he is the featured attraction here. There is also a very creative segment that takes place at Andy Warhol's Factory ... with Bill Hader pulling off the Warhol look and voice quite well.Obviously with the Warhol segment, time travel is involved. That's the real disappointment here. Outside of the Apollo 11 segment and listening to Status Quo play "Pictures of Matchstick Men", the trip to 1969 is really a wasted opportunity for plot and humor. Also scarce is the use of aliens that were so prevalent in the first two. This time around, we get an overdose of Boris the Animal played by the always interesting Jemaine Clement (Flight of the Conchords).Also back is Emma Thompson in a couple of brief scenes as Agent O. In addition to Brolin, we get new life from Alice Eve (a young Agen O) and Michael Stuhlbarg as Griffin ... a less annoying version of Joe Pesci from the Lethal Weapon series. Director Barry Sonnenfeld has stuck with this franchise for all three entries. Let's hope it's now allowed to rest in peace.
Greetings again from the darkness. Thomas McCarthy's first two directorial outings were excellent: The Station Agent, The Visitor. This is his third and it seems clear the first two were not flukes. This is a filmmaker who knows what he is doing and who is attracted to real people in real life situations. All three films feature the reactions and adaptations when strangers collide and a family-like atmosphere is created.In this film, Paul Giamatti plays a struggling lawyer who also coaches the local high school wrestling team. Times are tough for Giamatti's practice and when he stumbles on a chance for some "easy" money, his wrestling match with his conscience doesn't last too long ... even though it is not in the best interest of his client. By taking the easy way out, his elderly client is moved out of his home and into a long-term care facility. Giamatti knows his decision isn't right, so he hides it from his wife, the talented Amy Ryan. Their home life seems very typical until the Giamatti decision leads to further complications ... the client's long-lost grandson shows up.The kid turns out to be quite perceptive and fits right into the Giamatti/Ryan family ... especially when it is discovered that he is a top notch high school wrestler. Newcomer Alex Shaffer was cast because of his wrestling skills, but shines in the film due to his ability to come across as a real kid in real world conflicts. There are times his actions and decisions are more adult than the adults.The grandfather client is played by Burt Young, who was Paulie in the Rocky movies. Giamatti's best friend is played by Bobby Cannavale, whose character is going through marital hell, and whose lively spirit and outspoken tendencies provide many of the laughs in the film. Cannavale shines in this film, much as he did as the slightly desperate vendor in The Station Agent.Things are going along pretty well for the new "family" until Shaffer's mother (Melanie Lynskey) is released from the drug clinic and she shows up to re-claim her son and her share of grandpa's wealth. She and her attorney (another nice role for Margo Martindale) expose Giamatti's earlier unethical decision and force his hand. The strength of the family is severely tested.What I really like about this and the two previous McCarthy films are that no real Hollywood tricks are used. He hits situations head-on with realistic levels of comedy and uncomfortable people who are just trying to get along in life. In Win Win, the stellar cast brings life to these characters and draw us right in to their attempts at conflict resolution. Even though the theme is not too far removed from that of The Blind Side, Mr. McCarthy provides us with characters who could be from our own lives or even our own families. That makes all the difference.
Greetings again from the darkness. After "Casino Royale", the re-birth of the Bond franchise, I have been extremely anxious for the first Bond sequel. Now after seeing it, I can only hope that the next installment will bring an entirely new approach than what director Marc Forster has delivered. This is little more than an all-out action movie with some moments of meandering tossed in. Of course, the wrapping is pure Bond ... car chase, fights, babes, tuxedos, multiple locations, etc. But the let down is immense.On the bright side, Daniel Craig proves again that his casting was terrific. Next time, he just needs more to work with. I believe Judi Dench as M has more lines of dialogue than D Craig. In a normal film, that would not be unusual ... she is a terrific actress. But this is James Bond - where are the quips and double entendres? Mathieu Amalric was truly amazing in "The Diving Bell and Butterfly". Here he proves to be among the weakest of all Bond villains. What a waste. What happened to world domination? Now the prize is the water supply in Bolivia? Why Bolivia? Didn't they learn anything from Butch and Sundance? Olga Kurylenko (a famous model) and Gemma Atherton are our Bond girls. The stunning Kurylenko is so miscast that I laughed on more than a couple of occasions. At least Ms. Atherton has a real Bond girl name ... Strawberry Fields (though we only hear her referred to as "Fields").Supporting cast is strong with return performances by Jeffrey Wright, Giancarlo Giannini and Jesper Christensen (Mr White). Also of note is Charlie Chaplin's granddaughter Oona Chaplin, who has a brief role as a receptionist. There is also a nice tribute to "Goldfinger" with a shot of Fields on the bed.Director Forster is building a remarkable resume with the likes of "Monster's Ball", "Finding Neverland", "Stranger Than Fiction" and "Kite Runner". What he doesn't have is a feel for action. The close-ups and rapid fire editing are just atrocious. See the Bourne movies or the two most recent Batman films for much better action. And where is the stunning SCENERY? Parts of "Casino Royale" were right out of a travel guide. This film is bleak in each of the many locations.Two last things: is there a POINT to the opening car chase scene?; and why (in movies) do so few people every actually get shot with automatic weaponry, but Clint Eastwood can put out a cigarette from 50 yds with a 357 magnum? The film grades out low as an action film and even lower as a Bond film. The class of Craig and Dench prevent it from being a major flop but here's hoping the next installment is turned over to someone with an appreciation of what the Bond series has meant.
Greetings again from the darkness. If it seems to you as if the past three years have provided an overload of superhero and comic-based movies, you are absolutely correct. There have been too many. There are a few I would be willing to toss out, but Captain America is not one of them. This ranks right with the first Iron Man as the closest to a real movie ... one with a story to go with the action and CGI.This one begins with the present day discovery of an exposed plane wing jutting from the frozen Arctic tundra. The search team quickly finds the Captain America shield visible beneath the ice. Flash back to WWII and we are introduced to a scrawny Steve Rogers who wants nothing more than to fight for his country. Unfortunately, this 90-pound weakling might as well have 4-F stamped on his forehead.His tenacity at trying to enlist is noticed by a powerful scientist named Erskine (played with sheer smirking joy by Stanley Tucci). Erskine happens to be working with Col. Phillips (a grumpy Tommy Lee Jones) on a secret plan to develop super-soldiers with the injectable cocktail Erskine has invented. As you might guess, the plan is thwarted immediately after scrawny Steve Rogers is transformed into a super soldier yanked from the pages of Men's Fitness.Working with Col Phillips and Erskine is Peggy Carter (Hayley Atwell). Her main purpose seems to be testing the brightest red lipstick and flashing her legs in front of the soldiers. She falls for Rogers and spends most of her scenes staring somewhat scarily into his eyes. Actually, their scenes together are pretty good and her character helps us remember that Captain America is still just a regular guy ... not a Norse God.Personally, I thought the movie lagged just a bit in the fight scenes between good and evil. But that doesn't mean I didn't find Red Skull (Hugo Weaving) to be a terrific bad guy. Nazi's still make for the perfect adversary. Although, I found myself laughing on occasion as Weaving's German accent reminded me of Christoph Waltz in Inglourious Basterds.What makes this movie work is the fact that Captain America remains Steve Rogers. He is always a good guy wanting to do the right things. He is deeply affected when he thinks his actions may have caused the death of his best friend Bucky. But he also manages to keep his ego in check and his patriotic duty in the forefront. Also, the film is directed by Joe Johnston. If you are unfamiliar with his work, let me recommend two of his underrated earlier films: The Rocketeer and Hidalgo. You are probably familiar with his Jumanji and October Sky. He is a director that creates a specific look and feel to his films, and the texture helps make this one work.Since this is entitled Captain America: The First Avenger, it is obviously another step towards The Avengers movie slated for 2012. So don't miss Dominic Cooper as Howard Stark (father of Tony Stark/Iron Man). And don't miss Samuel L. Jackson as Nick Fury in the odd ending to this film ... and the obligatory "extra" after closing credits.
Greetings again from the darkness. Well it took six years, but co-directors Jonathan Dayton and Valerie Faris finally deliver their follow-up to the smash hit Little Miss Sunshine. With a script from first time screenwriter Zoe Kazan (granddaughter of legendary director Elia Kazan), we get an odd mash-up of would-be Woody Allen, Charlie Kaufman, Stranger Than Fiction, and a Twilight Zone episode.The story begins almost as a whimsical fantasy. Paul Dano plays Calvin, a blocked writer 10 years after writing the next great American novel, while he was still a teenager. The necessary comparisons to JD Salinger are made, and we witness Calvin as a socially-inept type who was never comfortable with his early success, and now can't find a way to move on with life. Given a writing assignment by his shrink (Elliott Gould), Calvin discovers the true power of the written word.After a dream of meeting a lovely girl in the park, Calvin's fingers tear through his manual typewriter and develop a story around his literal dream girl. And literal means literal. He runs into her downstairs. His creation has become his creation. Once he realizes they aren't going to lock him away for insanity, Calvin and Ruby begin a real relationship. Well as real as it can be with a girl who is not really real and whose actions can be changed simply by typing words on a page. If you think this sounds like a male fantasy, then you are in agreement with Calvin's brother (Chris Messina).A trip to visit the brothers' mothers (Annette Bening) and her boyfriend (Antonio Banderas) adds some humorous scenes while also signaling the beginning of trouble for Ruby and Calvin. It turns out that bringing your invented dream girl into the real world doesn't always work so well. Who would have thought? There is much humor in the film including Steve Coogan as Calvin's mentor. Deborah Ann Woll has a scene as Calvin's ex-girlfriend and it is probably the best written scene in the film. Really good insight into how two people's view of the same relationship can vary greatly.The story can be looked at from different perspectives. It certainly serves as insight into how a writer's mind can work. Many writers need a muse ... but few get to create their own! More importantly, it makes a statement on how we (well, not me) often try to control and manipulate the other person in our relationships. This is a sterling reminder to be careful what you ask for ... you just might get it. www.moviereviewsfromthedark.wordpress.com
Greetings again from the darkness. This one finally made it to Dallas and it's now clear why it is not only the Oscar favorite for Best Foreign Language Film, but also received a Best Original Screenplay nomination. It's truly that good ... and powerful ... and thought provoking. I caught myself changing my mind more than once on some of the issues these characters faced.The film opens with Nader and Simin (Peyman Moadi and Leila Hatami) in front of a judge to determine if they will be granted a divorce. Simin wants to take their daughter Termeh (Sarina Farhadi, the director's daughter) to study abroad. Nader doesn't disagree with the plan, only the timing. He refuses to leave his Dad, who suffers from Alzheimer's, alone in Iran. In a poignant moment, Nader points out that while his dad may not know him, he still certainly knows his dad. This is the first of a recurring theme throughout ... there are numerous ways to look at every issue.When Simin moves in with her mother, Nader hires Razieh (Sareh Bayat) to be his dad's caregiver. After a few days, Nader and Razieh have a heated argument and he pushes her out of the apartment. Next thing he knows, she is in the hospital after a miscarriage. She files a claim saying Nader pushed her down the stairs causing the miscarriage. The core of the story is the actions of the key characters during the inquisition by the judge/inspector. Nothing seems clear cut and each character's recall and statements vary from moment to moment.A key point is that these are all basically good and moral people. Muslim believers in various stages. None would purposefully sin, yet each is trying to protect something or someone. The script is fascinating in its detail and subtlety. It moves like real life rather than a movie trying to get crammed into a 2 hour window. Written and directed by Asghar Farhad, the film deserves all accolades and acclaim. Let's hope it finds an audience in the U.S. We could certainly use more stories and films like this.
Greetings again from the darkness. George Clooney takes another step towards his dark side ... way past his role in the superb "Up in the Air". Here he plays a man of singular focus. No, that's not quite right. He is not so much a man as a tool or vehicle. He is an assassin who is also an expert assembler of specialized weapons for contract killings.Clooney follows the commands of his master or leader or employer without much discussion, and certainly no debate. The two communicate via phone in short, terse bursts ... just like a kill. The leader is played by Johan Leyson. He has a face designed purely to play evil. From the opening scene, we know people are trying to kill Clooney. He knows this too. So he heads to a quiet, picturesque Italian countryside town to "work" on his next assignment.His meet is with Thekla Reuten, fellow assassin. Their conversation is not riddled with fluff, only the requirements for the job. You might remember Ms. Reuten as the innkeeper from "In Bruges". She manages to pull off the assassin role despite ... or is it because of ... her beauty.As with every singular focused assassin I have ever met, the weakness comes in the form of love. He wants to feel normal and complete. Here his hope for normal comes in the form of Clara, a local prostitute. Of course, only assassins and Richard Gere characters look for normal at a bordello. Clara is played well by Violante Placido and the two form an awkward bond. Or do they? That's really the gut of the film and the only real clue is Clooney's nickname, Mr. Butterfly.This can be viewed as yet another "last job, then I'm out" film, a coming-of-middleage quest, or a character study of a guy who just wants normalcy. What it's not is an action film or "Bourne" type film that the trailer suggests. Most of the action in this film is related to sunglass changes and slow gum chewing. Director Anton Corbjin is known mostly for his music videos and here he delivers tremendous camera work to go along with minimal dialogue ... most of which occurs when the great Paolo Bonacelli is on screen as Father Benedetto.
Greetings again from the darkness. It seems appropriate that anyone discussing or commenting on this movie should provide upfront disclosure regarding their stance on the classic The Wizard of Oz (1939). Having watched director Victor Fleming's original more than thirty times, I have no qualms in classifying myself as an unabashed fan. So it's understandable that trepidation accompanies every Oz fan into the theatre to watch director Sam Raimi's prequel.Mr. Raimi's career thus far has included two extremely popular special effects-driven franchises: Spider-Man (2002-07) and The Evil Dead (1981-92). His feel for imaginative visual effects remain in full force, and are evident from the opening credits. Unfortunately, Mr. Raimi was working with one hand tied behind his back thanks to the legal constraints that protect intellectual property. Author L Frank Baum's original children's books are public domain; however, Warner Brothers owns full rights to the 1939 film. This means the filmmakers had to tread lightly so as to avoid the legal whammy that goes with "borrowing" artistic rights. This is the reason we see no ruby slippers, and only tangential references to Dorothy Gale, the Scarecrow, the Cowardly Lion, etc. Still, don't be surprised if the news soon breaks of a lawsuit brought by Warner Bros against Disney.The film opens with an homage to the original. Filmed in Black & White and presented in original Academy screen ratio (square picture), we are introduced to Oscar (James Franco), a conniving carnival huckster who dreams of being a great man like his inspiration Thomas Edison. Oscar, nicknamed Oz, is seen as a womanizer with twisted character and lacking moral fiber. He briefly reconnects with Annie, a past Kansas fling played by Michelle Williams. She informs him that John Gale (clearly a relative to the future Dorothy) has proposed to her. We also meet Frank (Zach Braff) who is Oscar's loyal assistant and the brunt of his abuse after allowing Oz to be humiliated by the parents of a wheelchair bound girl (Joey King). This segment all lays the foundation for the rest of the story as we see what kind of man Oz is; and, we will soon cross paths again with the other key players.Of course, the story and movie really take off as Oscar is swept away in a twister and crash lands in full color and widescreen Land of Oz. His arrival plays like it's a planned ride at DisneyWorld ... complete with waterfalls, giant colorful flowers and buzzy little water fairies. Soon enough, Oscar meets a lovely local witch named Theodora (Mila Kunis). She and her sister Evanora (Rachel Weisz) explain the legend of the Wizard and how Oz can assume the throne and its accompanying wealth and power by killing off the Wicked Witch who destroyed the previous king.Oz travels with a talking, flying monkey (voiced by Zach Braff) who just wants to be friends and a broken china doll named China Doll (voiced by Joey King) who wants her family back (lost in a witch attack). Though this is supposedly the story of the transformation of Oz from a bad guy to a good guy, the best parts revolve around the three witches: the two sisters noted above and Glinda (Michelle Williams).The visuals in the movie are outstanding. My favorites include the Wicked Witch riding the smoking broom, the scary flying baboons, the smoke-and-mirrors climactic spectacle, and the amazing effects of China Doll. Michelle Williams is perfectly angelic as Glinda, and Rachel Weisz and Mila Kunis work wonders with their script-limited roles. Of course, capturing the menace and wonder of the great Margaret Hamilton from the original is a cinematic impossibility. So while the script is less than enthralling, the visuals and characters prove worthy to the source material. My only significant issue with the film is that I found James Franco to be distracting and miscast. Knowing that Robert Downey Jr was Raimi's first choice was like a jab in the ribs every time Franco's goofy and toothy approach marred a moment.My guess is that "purists" will be appalled by the thought of a prequel, while a whole generation of youngsters will be gleefully overwhelmed ... and if their parents are wise, the Baum books and the Fleming movie will be quickly introduced!
Greetings again from the darkness. On the surface, this looks like just another early season crime thriller. From that perspective, it works well enough. However, there are some elements that add complexity and interest, and set this one above the usual. It's directed by Niels Arden Oplev who was responsible for the original (and very cool) Swedish version of The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo. This looks to be his first English language feature and he re-teams with the exciting and talented Noomi Rapace.The film begins with a body in the freezer, and crime boss Alphonse (Terrence Howard) and his crew solving the mystery of who killed his friend and associate. Someone has been tormenting Alphonse with little clues and he falls right into the trap of jumping to conclusions. One member of his crew is Victor (Colin Farrell). We slowly learn more about Victor thanks to an awkward and slow connection between he and his neighbor Beatrice (Ms. Rapace). Their initial acknowledgment of each other is an exchange of waves between balconies. It's an effective visual.The movie bounces between crime thriller and romantic/love story. The added fun of secret missions from both Victor and Beatrice provide the twist this one needs. Actually there are 4-5 exceptional scenes in the movie which make up for the often plodding pace ... not typically a good thing for a thriller. The pieces are greater than the whole, but that doesn't mean it's not an interesting watch.In addition to Farrell, Rapace and Howard, we get some really enjoyable support work from Dominic Cooper, Isabelle Huppert and F Murray Abraham. Ms. Huppert in particular adds a touch of class and humor, and her character could have easily been expanded ... same for Mr. Abraham. Cooper plays an idealistic, but not so observant buddy to Victor and loyal crew member of Howard.This one reminds at times of a couple of Mel Gibson revenge flicks: Payback and Edge of Darkness. What really helps here is the strength of the cast and unusual scars of Victor and Beatrice. A slightly tighter script and improved pacing would have jumped this one a level or two.
Greetings again from the darkness. Though I am no history buff, I certainly don't buy this as a historically accurate portrait of the great warrior and leader Genghis Khan. Portrayed here as a caring, fair man who takes much advice from his chosen wife, Khan is a great guy who just happens to kill people who deserve it.So I choose to look at this as a dramatic interpretation of the formative years and experiences of this fascinating figure. Director Sefgei Bodrov captures the feel of the era and coaches tremendous lead performances. This doesn't have the look and feel of some cheap indie, it really delivers a quality story on a massive scale.For those who don't view this as some historical documentary and can focus on the presentation, they will find a very impressive film with terrific performances.
Greetings again from the darkness. Upfront admission ... I am a huge Tim Burton fan. I think he is a film genius. Unlike many, however, I don't believe this is his best work. Still, it is incredibly creative and stylish. It's just missing something.For a musical, the lead voices are mediocre at best. Rickman is barely passable. Young Ed Sanders who plays Toby had far and away the most impressive voice, while newcomer Jayne Wisener (Johanna) has such a high pitch that it made me wish for her parakeet to chirp instead. Depp and Bonham Carter are OK, but one expects stronger vocals for a Stephen Sondheim production.Be prepared for an overdose of spurting blood, but there is enough comic distraction to offset. Sacha Baron Cohen has a funny bit as a con man/ competing barber and Timothy Spall is just so funny looking that you can't help but chuckle whenever his ugly mug hits the screen.Still not sure what was missing here, but I felt it falls short of greatness despite the amazing visual feast of Bonham Carter's dream. Of course it goes without saying that the great Sondheim songs are pure brilliance. His talent is so unique when compared to most Broadway production numbers.
Greetings again from the darkness. It's a bit of a curiosity why the only four-times-elected US President has been portrayed so few times on screen. Without putting much thought into it, the most memorable non-documentary occurrence may have been by Jon Voight during Michael Bay's Pearl Harbor. Bring on Bill Murray as Franklin Delano Roosevelt during the 1939 first ever US visit by British monarchs ... King George VI("Bertie" played by Samuel West) and Queen Elizabeth (Olivia Colman) ... and the stage is set for a behind-the-scenes political tale of the "social" meeting that led to the US and England joining forces in WWII. Unfortunately, that's not really what we get.Director Roger Michell (Morning Glory, Venus) and noted Playwright and screenwriter Richard Nelson (Ethan Frome) just can't seem to make up their mind which story they want to tell. Is it the historical meeting between FDR and the King? Is it the fling between FDR and his 6th cousin Daisy (Laura Linney), whose relationship was uncovered through the diaries and letters left behind when she passed in 1991? Is it the ongoing manipulations by Mrs Roosevelt (FDR's mother, played by Elizabeth Wilson) and the cagey Eleanor (Olivia Williams)? Is it a political statement that all powerful men have insecurities and needs? The film is narrated and mostly told through the viewpoint of Daisy, a local 47 year old spinster, who gets dragged wide-eyed into the FDR mayhem. Mrs Roosevelt, Eleanor and FDR's assistant Missy (Elizabeth Marvel, The Bourne Legacy) all understand the President's reason for allowing Daisy into their inner sanctum. Daisy, a bit slow on the take, learns why once FDR stops the car in a meadow during one of their private, scenic drives. The running story of Daisy is probably the least interesting within the film, and it often deflates whatever momentum might get started.The best and most interesting portion involves the private meeting between FDR and the King that takes place in the study after hours. The two bond as men who are in positions of power, share the same insecurities, and who both curse their afflictions ... the King and his stuttering, and the President with his polio. The best line of the film occurs during this meeting when the President asks "Can you imagine the disappointment when they find out what we really are?" It's a reminder that all great men are just that ... men.This barely qualifies as a historical drama, and the far more interesting personal topic (rather than Daisy) would be the ongoing power struggle between Eleanor and Mrs Roosevelt. FDR does have to remind them that HE is the President! There is acknowledgment of Eleanor's sexual preference, as well as her acceptance of FDR's extra-marital desires and needs.Much is made of the famous American picnic where the King and Queen are served hot dogs, and this story highlights the Queen's paranoia that this is yet another slap in the face meant to dishonor their presence. In fact, it is presented as a shrewd move by FDR to introduce the British royalty as people to be embraced.It must be noted that though the film plays much like a made for TV movie, Bill Murray does a solid job portraying FDR as a man filled with humor, mischief and in full command of the burden he carries. His need for "me" time is understandable and his agreement with the press photographers explains why so few pictures exist of his wheelchair or other challenges in living with the polio. Unfortunately, the film just doesn't keep up with Murray's performance or with the powerful subject he portrays. Sound familiar Mr. Voight?
Greetings again from the darkness. I have said many times over the past few years that Clint Eastwood is the classiest filmmaker working today. We can always count on his films to be technically well made, interesting and entertaining. Invictus is no exception. What it's not is a classic film, or even one of Clint's best. Nonetheless, it is worth seeing from a historical standpoint as well as for Morgan Freeman's fine performance.The dialogue is sprinkled with many of Nelson Mandela's own words and the story is based on the book by John Carlin. Without a doubt, the best parts of the film are those showing Mr. Freeman portraying Mr. Mandela "behind the scenes" ... whether in his office or spouting his amazing philosophy to his security crew. Whatever your politics, Mr. Mandela was a fascinating man who survived an excruciating ordeal (for almost 30 years). For his mind, body and spirit to survive is reason enough to learn more about him as a man (warts and all).The weakest part of the movie is the enormous amount of rugby time we are forced to watch. Most of the scenes/plays are staged and filmed in tight shots so as not to expose the weakness of the game or actors. Unfortunately, this makes up a huge portion of this overly long film. Obviously the rugby story line is historical and a story worth telling, but the film would have been more impactful with more Mandella musings and less fake Matt Damon rugby.As always, Clint's film score is perfect. The only shocking moment was the terrible song playing as Mandela's helicopter lands on the practice field. It was an inexcusable MTV moment from a master. Otherwise, a film to see, though not necessarily one to adore.
Greetings again from the darkness. Based on a compelling true story and spurred by a "60 Minutes" segment, the film tells the story of Betty Anne Walters (Hilary Swank) who dedicated 18 years of her life to proving the innocence of her incarcerated brother, Kenny (Sam Rockwell).The natural assumption would be that Betty Anne wrote letters and hounded police and attorneys so that no one would forget Kenny. The truth is far more fascinating. From an abusive and underprivileged childhood, Betty Anne rose above all an reinvented herself once her brother was found guilty of murder. She got her GED, graduated from college, then law school, and became his attorney. With assistance from Barry Scheck and The Innocence Project, old evidence was re-analyzed and witness testimony was contested. The outcome is public record and more proof that fact can be stranger than fiction.Pamelay Gray's script is handled by director Tony Goldwyn, who is known mostly for TV projects. He is talented enough to let the story and his excellent cast do the work. Swank, of course, is the perfect choice for this role and seems quite at ease. Rockwell, one of the more under-appreciated actors around, is very strong in capturing the lovable Kenny, as well as the red-hot tempered alcoholic who was always in trouble with the law. The relationship between this brother and sister is established via childhood flashbacks and prison visits. We never once doubt that Betty Anne would commit to this challenge, even if we do question the wisdom of doing so.Have to mention some of the rest of the cast. Minnie Driver is Abra, Betty Anne's law school classmate who joins her in Kenny's cause. The movie never really explains why she does this, but she adds a nice element. Melissa Leo is the cop with a chip who railroads Kenny. We see later how her life turned out and can only think she deserves every bad thing that can happen. Ari Graynor plays Mandy, Kenny's teenage daughter and an almost unrecognizable Clea DuVall is excellent as her mother Mandy. The performance that really jumps off the screen is that of Juliette Lewis. We first see her testifying in court and almost two decades later as a burned out shell of a person. Her few minutes here are staggering to watch.It would be easy to dismiss this as just another melodrama, but it is really fascinating to see what the love of a sister can accomplish. I was shocked that the end trailer didn't mention that Kenny died just 6 months after his release in a freak accident. Betty Anne is on record as saying that while tragic, at least he died a free man.
Greetings again from the darkness. This was France's entry, and one of the odds-on favorite to win Best Foreign Language Film at this year's Academy Awards (it did not win). Director Jacques Audiard brings us the gritty realism of power within the walls of a prison. We even get a glimpse into how power inside the walls translates into power in the outside world.Tahan Rahim stars as Malik, a young, shy, weak boy (apparantly) wrongly sentenced for striking a police officer. Malik is quickly abused and taken advantage of by the stronger, seasoned convicts. Ahh, but young Malik is a quick study and is dragged under the control of the powerful Corsican group led by Cesar Luciana (played by Niels Arestoun). He studies Cesar's process and moves and quickly learns to run his own side businesses by walking a fine line between the various groups in prison.See, Malik is a French born Arab who becomes a trusted adviser to the Corsican crime boss. Although, the Corsicans call him a dirty Arab and the Arabs don't trust him because of his affiliation with the Corsicans. What a mess for Malik. But he is quite the opportunist and makes the best of his situation.Some of the story lines are brutal, while others are quite clever. This adds to the realism and makes this an intense story to follow. Jacques Audiard also directed the fine "The Beat that My Heart Skipped" and that film also featured Niels Arestoun, who flashes some evil eyes and plays his low key power to the hilt. He is great fun to watch here.
Greetings again from the darkness. It's been more than a decade since writer/director Don Coscarelli added quirky humor to his toy box with the wonderful Bubba Ho-Tep. Previously Coscarelli was known for his classic horror franchise that started in 1979 with Phantasm (and three sequels). Coscarelli has a real knack for oddball humor and along with the source material from David Wong's book, he delivers a comical, cross-dimension, alien-fighting, time travel buddy film that draws recollections to Men in Black 3, Big Trouble in Little China, and Bill & Ted's Excellent Adventure.Coscarelli has had his opportunities to join "big budget" Hollywood, but has always chosen to remain true to his roots in horror/fantasy for his loyal followers, resulting in many cult films and midnight movie favorites. In this newest story, Dave (Chase Williamson) and John (Rob Mayes) are slacker buddies who end up feeling the effects of a new street drug called soy sauce. The story is told in semi-flashback form as Dave meets with a reporter played by the great Paul Giamatti. As Dave tells the story, we get the visuals as if they were currently happening. This works because it's never really clear when we are in the present, past or future.This is one big fun and entertaining ride if you let it be. Terrific characters are provided by Clancy Brown (Shawshank Redemption) as Marconi, some type of powerful mystic (or something else); Glynn Turman as a relentless, yet beaten down detective; Doug Jones (Pan's Labrynth) in yet another creepy role; and Fabianne Therese as Amy, whose missing limb plays a vital role.Further analysis would prove meaningless as the sole purpose of this film is to entertain and engage. It's escapism at its finest and yet another creative gem from Don Cascarelli.
Greetings again from the darkness. This film and story is yet more confirmation for my life-long belief that, in general, psychiatrists and psychologists tend to be the most unstable and consistently loony people in society. Whether in the medical profession, business world or scientific realm, over-blown ego affects judgment and clarity; and sometimes leads to the mis-guided notion that proving one's theory is more vital than finding real truth.Sigmund Freud (Viggo Mortensen) and Carl Jung (Michael Fassbender) are considered the founding fathers of what we accept today as psychoanalysis. In this film, we see how the two men came to know each other and the subsequent prideful battle of egos that drove them apart. Just as importantly, we see how Sabina Spielrein (Keira Knightley) evolved from hysteria sufferer in 1904 (as the film opens), to Jung's patient, to Jung's lover, and finally to the level of respected colleague of Freud and Jung within the field. Her growth and change as a patient provided clinical proof to "the talking cure" method, which took the place of electro-shock therapy (except in extreme cases).The film is directed by David Cronenberg, although you might not believe it if you didn't know it to be so. Mr. Cronenberg is known for such work as "The Fly", "Eastern Promises" and "A History of Violence". This is easiest his most dialogue-intensive work to date. Of course, that makes sense given that it's based on Christopher Hampton's play "The Talking Cure" and John Kerr's book "A Most Dangerous Method". The two main subjects love to hear their own words, though here Freud spends much of his screen time puffing a cigar and tossing in a few well-timed grunts. This goes to his belief that silence often leads others to conclude that his theories are so solid, debate becomes unnecessary.It is very interesting to see the personality differences between the subdued Freud and the more open-minded Jung. When mystical and supernatural subjects are brought up by Jung, Freud quickly dismisses them as hooey. Freud was almost a master marketer is his attempts to get psychoanalysis accepted into mainstream. He fought Jung's more exploratory ideas. At the heart of the film is the evolution of Sabina and it's impact on the three leads. There is also a bit of Otto Gross (Vincent Cassel) thrown in to show just how open Jung could be.Learning about these pioneers is crucial to understanding the topic of today's psychiatry and psychology. There is no question that the foundation of their work led to the salvation of many suffering people over the years. Of course, it's clear that many patients have also suffered at the hands of those in the field who are less scrupulous.The look of the film is beautiful, as are the costumes and sets. An added bonus is the terrific score from Howard Shore. It's difficult to see this one attracting a wide audience, but the performances and subject matter should please those who are drawn to it.
Greetings again from the darkness. Admittedly, for me there is a fine line between an acceptable chick flick and one that is pure fluff. Oddly enough, this one brings a few fine moments to the screen despite its simplistic predictability and overall lack of creativity.Amanda Seyfried (Mamma Mia) stars as Sophie, a wannabe writer who stumbles on a 50 year old letter at the wall of Juliet in Verona. She then tracks down the Secretaries of Juliet who let her answer the letter. Poof! Just like that, the author of the original letter (a radiant Vanessa Redgrave as Claire) shows up in Verona to meet Sophie and track down the lost love of her life (the reason for the letter).There are absolutely no twists or surprises in the movie. We recognize immediately that Sophie and her fiancé (a miscast Gael Garcia Bernal) are all wrong for each other. How this will end is very clear when Claire's grandson (Heath Ledger clone Christopher Egan as Charlie) first confronts Sophie in typical rude Brit manner.The road trip to find lost love Lorenzo is of course a road of discovery for not just Claire, but also Sophie and Charlie. I am struggling to avoid typing yada, yada, yada. The coolest part of the film is when Claire finds her Lorenzo ... a dashing Franco Nero on a galloping steed, who also happens to own the vineyard for Claire's favorite wine (insert eye roll here).Anyway, the Tuscan scenery is staggeringly beautiful. And watching real-life couple Redgrave and Nero walk hand in hand is very heart-warming. These two first fell in love during the mid-60's while filming Camelot. This cost Ms. Redgrave her first marriage (famed director Tony Richardson), but the lovers did not marry until 2006. It's never a good sign when real life is more interesting than the movie.If you are cool with an obvious and uncomplicated story line set in the gorgeous Tuscan wine country, then the film will be fine for you. On the other hand, director Gary Winick was also responsible for Bride Wars, so the least he can do is turn in his director's card and move into a second career dealing with pure maple syrup.
Greetings again from the darkness. While this is the second Thor movie, we feel a bit more familiar with the Norse God thanks to The Avengers. It's not surprising that Chris Hemsworth can hold his own with the character given his looks and physicality, but this time he gets a run for his money thanks to Tom Hiddleston as Loki.The film's real villain is Malekith (Christopher Eccleston) who rules the Dark Elves and is trying to re-capture the all-powerful Aether, a substance of infinite energy. But the whole battle for the 9 realms is really just a sideline to Thor vs Loki, and Thor's touch of humanity and eye for Jane Foster (Natalie Portman). Most of the key characters are back: Anthony Hopkins as Odin (even more over the top this time), Rene Russo (Thor's mom), Ray Stevenson as Volstagg, Jaimie Alexander (Sif), Idris Elba (Heimdall), Kat Dennings (Darcy), and Stellan Skarsgard (Erik Selvig).This sequel is kind of interesting to analyze. It's certainly bigger than the original ... the special effects are huge and much improved. Light comic moments abound, but luckily the snark from Kat Dennings is minimal. Chris O'Dowd shows up for a couple of pretty funny, but slightly out of place scenes. There are a couple of cameos including an off-beat appearance by one of the The Avengers. Rene Russo even gets her own sword fight! Though it matters not to me, I assume there are many who would choose a Skarsgard other than Stellan to run around Stonehenge sans clothes. So while it has all of that going for it, the story is certainly fails at engaging the audience.This one is directed by Alan Taylor, who is quite a successful TV director, and there was clearly some upfront concern over the script as Joss Whedon was brought in for scene doctoring. I believe what we learn is that the fish out of water story works when Thor is on Earth, but it loses impact when Jane Foster visits Asgard. Still, Tom Hiddleston is such fun to watch as Loki, that none of that really matters.It's a superhero movie that will entertain the fans and provide plenty of ammunition for the critics looking to bash. If you see it in the theatre, you should know to stay for BOTH post-movie scenes. A rare Benecio Del Toro sighting makes it worthwhile.
Greetings again from the darkness. Just when you are convinced the comic book movie thing has been overdone, in swoops director Matthew Vaughn (the excellent "Layer Cake") to reach an entirely new level through a unique, unconventional and twisted approach. It does't take but a few minutes to realize that clichés mixed with shocks will mess with your movie-processing mind! Somehow we are treated to teen angst,superhero-ism and most every human emotion and type between the two. WARNING: this movie is rated R and it is a strong R ... IT IS NOT FOR KIDS! The film slam-dances between ultra violence and uber-geekdom and satire driven slapstick. We get a 12 year old Chloe Moretz as Hit Girl, wielding weapons even more deadly than her shockingly adult tongue. Moretz was also a standout in last year's "500 Days of Summer". We get her revenge-driven ex-clean cop Big Daddy father (Nicolas Cage) in Batman costume mentoring her to the ways of a world class assassin. I busted out laughing when I realized that Mr. Cage's voice mannerism mimic that of the great Adam West while donning the black cape. A very nice touch. Our other home grown, would be superheros are Aaron Johnson as Kick-ass (replete with green scuba suit) and McLovin (Christopher Mintz-Plasse) as Red Mist. Most of these characters are one step removed from "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest".Of course a comic book story must have a top notch villain and these days there are few better than Mark Strong. He delivers another terrific dead-pan performance as a drug lord and father to Red Mist. Strong's character is the driving force behind Big Daddy's quest for revenge.Aaron Johnson's Kick-ass is an example of the clunky teenager who has a good heart and is desperate for attention from the girls. He even accepts being labeled as gay by the hot chick he adores just so he can spend time with her. He hangs at the comic book store with his equally geeky friends and then "transforms" into Kick-ass, a superhero with no powers other than a desire to do what's right and help those in need.Mark Millar's script balances many cultural and societal observations while delivering a visual parade of images and sounds (wondeful music and score ... including ELVIS) and moments that will keep the viewer unsettled. You might think it odd that an early scene lingers on a giant advertisement featuring Claudia Schiffer. Ms. Schiffer is married to the director and becomes one of many tributes and satires throughout the film. It is quite a different experience and one that not all will enjoy ... but it is to be admired for reaching for new levels.
Greetings again from the darkness. Director Isabel Coixet ("Paris, je t'aime", "The Secret Life of Words") brings us the film version of Philip Roth's novel "The Dying Animal". With its stellar cast and source material, this one has the makings of Oscar material ... until you actually watch it.Though well directed, well written and exceedingly well-acted, I just had the feeling that something was missing. Most of the characters are just downright pathetic. Kingsley is a lecherous old man disguised as a charming, sophisticated college professor. How respectable of him to wait until final grades are in before he seduces this year's lucky student. He has no relationship with his angry doctor son (Peter Sarsgaard). He has an ongoing once every three weeks roll in the hay with equally disconnected Patricia Clarkson. All of this until he is captivated by Penelope Cruz, and then he still manages to treat her poorly.I surely would have enjoyed this more had Cruz' character been given a bit more background. Also, Kingley's best friend is a poet played by Dennis Hopper, in a very interesting role ... again, with which we are only given a tease. As much as I enjoyed her in this, Cruz is a bit long in the tooth to be playing a doe-eyed college student, even if she supposedly took some time off to be a paralegal.What is missing from this is a soul. Sure Kingsley weeps like a girl near the end, but I felt that as too little too late. The piano and oboe soundtrack are marvelous and I definitely enjoyed the performances.
Greetings again from the darkness. Comparisons with "The Illusionist" will abound as both are 19th century pieces centering on England's fascination with magicians and illusionists during that period. Although the settings are similar, it is important to note that "The Illusionist" is at its core a love story, while "The Prestige" is the tale of dueling illusionists and their fierce, even deadly, competition to be known as the BEST.Christian Bale and Hugh Jackman are the competing masters of illusion and after an onstage accident caused by Bale causes the death of Jackman's true love, the quest for best takes off on tangents that few could predict. To help confuse the issue, another master of illusion directs the film! Christopher Nolan brings his warped "Memento" twists and turns to us so that we, as viewers, are left floundering at what the next trick will be.The cast includes Michael Caine in a pretty strong role and Scarlett Johansson, who is given little to do other than squeeze into an assistant's costume and wear gobs of lipstick. There are nice turns from Piper Perabo ("Coyote Ugly"), Andy Serkis ("LOTR", "King Kong") and David Bowie (yes, THAT David Bowie) as world renowned scientist Tesla, who himself is in a competition with Thomas Edison.Although many of the plots twists are pretty easy to see coming, it is nonetheless a joyous ride for those of us who enjoy a wild screenplay. And it must be noted that Bale is just outstanding as his brooding and near mystical presence adds a great deal to the film. So chalk up another victory for Mr. Nolan, and please don't give away any of the fun to those who have not seen the film.
Greetings again from the darkness. Can't help but be disappointed in what was to be the first of this year's Oscar contenders. Director and usually great screenwriter Steven Zaillian takes on a quasi-remake of the 1949 classic based on Robert Penn Warren's novel. Loosely based on Huey Long and Louisiana politics, this version is placed in a different era altogether, and because of that, loses some of its powerful message.An incredible cast is assembled, though, most had me scratching my head by the mid-point. Rarely do you find so many Brits and Jersey boys faking a bayou accent. At least Sir Anthony Hopkins just muffles his normal speech pattern rather than go full out southern. Jude Law, on the other hand, just seems totally out of place in most every scene save those with Kate Winslet (who herself seems misplaced). The great Patricia Clarkson (actually from Louisiana) is totally underutilized as compared to Mercedes McCambridge's stellar performance in the original. The reduction of the role is evidently what led Meryl Streep to drop out. Mark Ruffalo, James Gandolfini and Kathy Baker are also given little to do, but don't miss Eileen Ryan (Sean Penn's real life mom) as Lily Littlepaugh and Jackie Earle Haley ("Bad News Bears") as Penn's bodyguard. Haley will also be seen in an upcoming fall release "Little Children". Nice to see him back on screen after 13 years! Of course, as with the original, the movie belongs to Willie Stark (Broderick Crawford in the 1949 version). Sean Penn, one of the top 3 American actors, dives full body and soul into this role, but it is not quite enough to save the film. His performance did keep me interested enough, but the change in era and lack of focus on Stark's grass roots efforts took some of the edge from the film. Penn's performance is over the top, but it must be in order to capture the fascination that is Willie Stark.My guess is much of the film was left in the editing room as much of the story line regarding Winslet and Ruffalo made little sense and there was a tremendous amount of Clarkson's character that was reduced to a facial expression or knowing glance.The sets and costumes are excellent and the score (James Horner) and music (TBone Burnett) are wonderful compliments, but the script and direction falls short and does not capture the power of the original and really is a bit of a mess as far as the story.
Greetings again from the darkness. Spoilers are strictly avoided in my comments on movies. I completely understand that not everyone rushes out to see new releases the way that I do. For this movie, there can be no spoilers. We are all painfully aware of the real life ordeal suffered by Aron Ralston in 2003. This taut film succeeds at bringing to life the visuals our minds can only imagine.Danny Boyle is a terrific director and has three (now four) outstanding and diverse movies to his name (Slumdog Millionaire, Millions, Trainspotting). Here he re-teams with Slumdog writer Simon Beaufoy to bring us the screen version of Aron Ralston's book "Between a Rock and Hard Place". It's the story of an adventurous young man who is forced to take drastic measures when his arm is pinned after a fall while rock climbing.What the film really explores is Ralston's personality. A cocky, adventurous, fun-loving guy whose "oops" moment consisted of not telling anyone where he was headed. A cardinal sin for hikers. Five days later he stumbles back to life, minus one arm. Ralston faces one of those moments when he must decide just how important life is. He must be a courageous man because his choice leads to life ... through excruciating pain.Boyle does an amazing job in capturing the moment and the setting. In what could be a hopeless situation, Ralston clings to life. James Franco delivers an Oscar worthy performance as Ralston. His range here is remarkable. Watching his hallucinations, flashbacks and persistence makes this an extremely watchable film despite the topic.Support work is minimal but decent from Kate Mara, Amber Tamblyn, Treat Williams, Kate Burton and Clemence Poesy. Franco and Boyle are the real stars as they capture Ralston's spirit. As a viewer, this taps into our inner most fear. What if this were us? What if we were him? Could we do it? Would we do it?
Greetings again from the darkness. Normally, I watch a movie, organize my thoughts and write my comments. Not surprisingly, this film has me all tangled up in thoughts, opinions and analysis. Though I won't, I could easily write 10 pages on this mesmerizing work from visionary director Darren Aronofsky. It's best if this film is allowed to work it's (black) magic on each individual viewer.What I can tell you is that similar to Christopher Nolan's "Inception", there will be a definite line of demarcation between those who like and those who don't. And just like with Nolan's exceptional film, among those who "like" this one, there will still be much debate and discussion about themes, meanings, presentation, performances and message. In my opinion, that's a pretty good report card for both films.Be forewarned ... this is a very dark, risky and edgy film. Know that it steps even farther out than Mr. Aronofsky's previous work in The Wrestler, The Fountain, Requiem for a Dream and Pi. In other words, he works very hard on the presentation so that the viewer can be whisked away in many different directions emotionally.The multi-faceted story has many angles, any of which could be construed as the lead. Natalie Portman (Nina) stars as a mid-20's member of a struggling New York ballet company. Barbara Hershey is Nina's smothering mother, who gives all dance mom's a bad name with her attempts to live vicariously through her daughter, while also stifling her growth into adulthood (the pink bedroom looks as if an 8 year old girl would be in heaven). Wynona Ryder (Beth) plays the "aging" prima ballerina who is forced into retirement, and Mila Kundis (Lily) is the mysterious newcomer who may or may not have an agenda. The fabulous Vincent Cassel (Thomas) is the company director and plays the role full bore.Thomas announces that the company will be performing "Swan Lake" and, almost knowing the dancers will hiss at the re-tread, he quickly adds that it's never been done his way ... the same dancer playing both the White and Black Swan. He knows that Nina is the perfect choice as the White Swan but isn't sure she can dig deep enough for the dark side. Lily is her polar opposite ... mirror image ... as the emotionally free and with a comfortable level of darkness and evil. I mention mirrors because they play a key role throughout the film.When Nina is chosen for the role, a twisted friendship with Lily emerges. This draws Nina further inside herself exposing thoughts and actions she never before imagined. On top of this, Thomas is the predatory authoritarian who constantly challenges her, leading to even more self-doubt.As Nina slowly transforms from little girl into womanhood, we witness what looks like a slow slide towards madness. Has she gone too far? Will she snap out? Much of what we see is a clash between reality and her delusional mind. The viewer must decipher where the line is ... often multiple times within a single scene! We are left wondering if Lily is stealing Nina's identity or is it the other way around? The other topic we cover is the constant battle that dancers face. The cutthroat competition, backstage battles, increasing pain and injuries, the fear of failure - both physically and emotionally, and the immense dedication and skill required for this short-lived profession. There is a drive for perfection in these dancers, just like in the best athletes, musicians, actors, etc. Of course, perfection as a goal leads to disappointment in result.I can't rave enough about the script from Mark Heyman, Andres Heinz and John McLaughlin. Breathtaking is the best word I can use to describe the camera work. We are literally onstage and whirling through the dancers. The musical score combined with the familiar songs topped with amazingly subtle (and some not so subtle) effects makes this best described as an artsy horror film meshed with a crackling psychological thriller held together by nightmarish melodrama. If that leaves you intrigued, then this one is "perfect" for you!
Greetings again from the darkness. Director Shawn Levy brought us the "Night at the Museum Movies" and I guess that's about the same audience he is after with this one. You probably won't get this comparison anywhere else, but "Dreamer" with Kurt Russell and Dakota Fanning is the film that this one most reminds me of - A spunky kid trying to prove everyone wrong in an against all odds competition. But I would not put this one at the level of Dreamer, which had better performances and a much better script.Hugh Jackman is a pompous, bombastic, self-centered hustler who tries to stay one step ahead of the collectors chasing him. He is always looking for a big score in the robot boxing game. What? You aren't familiar with this sport? Well the film is set in not too distant future, but the only thing I could tell had evolved was the technology of robots and video games. Jackman's world gets jacked up when his 11 year old son (Dakota Goyo) is thrust into his life after the mother dies. Yes, he has been an absentee father and the kid is ridiculously smart and cute.The two of them set off to make noise in the robot fight world with a dilapidated old model that they rescue from the junk yard. There are very few surprises along the way, but father and son develop a bond thanks to the success of their robot.Supporting work is provided by Evangeline Lilly, Anthony Mackie, Kevin Durand, Hope Davis and James Rebhorn. These are all competent actors who deliver fine work, but there is nothing special to the script. The one thing that makes this one a little different and will certainly appeal to 10-12 year old boys, is the fighting robots. The fights are action-packed and enjoyable to watch. They actually look like boxing matches ... only with metal creatures, who for some reason are built to mimic human movement.There have been countless other robot movies: Transformers, Bicentennial Man (Robin Williams), I Robot (Will Smith) and, of course, Lost in Space! Don't expect much more from this than those.
Greetings again from the darkness. Just another in the long line of politically charged, autobiographical French films with English subtitles based on the Iran Revolution and filmed in Black and White animation with Iron Maiden references.Based on co-writer and co-director's Marjane Satrapi's autobiography of the same name, this one provides a glimpse into Iran after the fall of the Shah. As the old saying goes: be careful what you wish for, you might get it.Unlike anything I have ever seen on screen, Ms. Satrapi provides some insight into what struggles the Iranian people went through during this terrible time. Of course this is through the eyes of an adult looking back on her childhood, so we are given a very frightening picture indeed.The story is allowed to drag in a few spots, but overall, the uniqueness of delivery maintain the interest and Ms. Satrapi makes for a captivating lead character ... even in animated form.
Greetings again from the darkness. Michael Moore's latest has been billed as an expose on the insurance industry. A better description would be pointing fingers at the U.S. healthcare industry. I don't say that as a bad thing, only to provide a more clear definition of what I just watched.I truly admire Mr. Moore for his ability to bring issues to the forefront and get dialogue and debate started. The downside to his work is that he rarely offers any type of real solution and certainly avoids the "other side" of his chosen topic. Still, he is a master at painting the picture necessary to spur an emotional response from the viewer. The film probably accomplishes this even better than his others. Watching fellow citizens suffer is a most painful experience. To make it worse, a few of his displays are 9/11 rescue workers. How many heart strings can he tug on at once? Very effective.Still, how wonderful it would have been to have details discussed on the viability of social healthcare in the U.S. Sadly, no debate or solutions, just more examples of pain. By bashing the U.S. system and raving about Canada, Britain, France and even Cuba, Moore leads us to believe that the answer is pretty simple if not for the evil politicians in Washington, D.C. Although, I don't expect more from Moore, I certainly had hoped for it.
Greetings again from the darkness. Director Danny Boyle won an Oscar for Slumdog Millionaire, and he also brought us the wicked Trainspotting and the extraordinary Millions. He is also the guy behind the presentation of the Olympic ceremony in London and the stage version of Frankenstein. Mr. Boyle is very talented and unafraid of risk. You will have to decide for yourself if this one pays off, as viewers seem to be falling on one side or the other.James McAvoy stars as Simon, an employee at a fine art auction house, similar to Sotheby's. Simon begins the film by narrating and demonstrating the security measures, and soon enough a real robbery is occurring ... a rare and valuable Goya. In the process Simon gets whacked on the head by master thief Franck (Vincent Cassel). We soon enough learn Simon was part of the inside job but, thanks to head trauma, can't recall where he hid the painting. Franck is not happy about this and Franck is not really a nice man.Next thing we know, Simon is visiting hypno-therapist Elizabeth Lamb (Rosario Dawson) and trying to find his keys, which is really the painting. All the while this is happening, Franck and the crew are listening in and we viewers are being thumped with the techno-music (also known as Trance).This one is part heist film, part thriller, part atmospheric softcore sex, double-crossing, relationship flick. Normally a psychological thriller with Vincent Cassel directed by Danny Boyle would be a perfect time in a movie theatre for me. Unfortunately in the twisty fun versus jumbled mess debate, I lean towards the messy side.
Greetings again from the darkness. For a film to rate highly with me, mass appeal is not necessary. The requirements are an interesting story that is well cast, well acted and well directed. Though it is often required reading in high school, the novel by Charlotte Bronte is a timeless classic and among the most popular of all time. The key roles in this latest film version are played well by Dame Judi Dench (Mrs. Fairfax), Michael Fassbender (Rochester) and Mia Wasikowska (Jane). Cary Fukunaga directs. He was also responsible for the powerful 2009 film Sin Nombre (highly recommended).There have been numerous film and TV versions of this classic over the years, with the 1943 version being the most famous. Orson Welles starred as Rochester and Joan Fontaine was Jane. While that version still works, this year's model is the first that I believe surpasses that one in quality. The two keys are the performance of Mia Wasikowska and the direction of Mr. Fukunaga.The film surprises a bit with it's flashback approach, but it works well in linking the older Jane with her early struggles. This version really rests heavy on Wasikowska's shoulders and she does not disappoint. You will recognize her from her recent turns in Alice in Wonderland, and The Kids Are All Right. She quickly jumps to the head of the Jane Eyre class. Very impressive.Fukunaga's direction relies on art direction and spectacular lighting. He draws in the viewer to this dark and mysterious world where much goes unstated, yet so much is communicated. The good girl/bad boy battle is always fun and moreso when the good girl is a remarkably independent and brassy girl, while the bad boy is very dark and dangerous. Of course, this is Hollywood so the novel's unattractive Rochester is played by the strapping Fassbender (Inglourious Basterds).What always attracted me to this story was the strength and perseverance of Jane herself. To find a girl with such fortitude and moral stamina despite her upbringing and longings means the central character is both fascinating and easy to pull for. She is what we would wish for our own daughters ... self confident, full of character and observant of what is fair and just.If you aren't the literary type, don't expect to enjoy this film. Watching it is truly like the visualization that occurs when reading a top novel. I was completely drawn into life at Thornfield Hall and the life of Jane Eyre.
Greetings again from the darkness. Although there is an air of familiarity about the story ... dutiful son, black sheep, worshiped father, family turmoil, redemption, etc ... writer/director James Grey still manages to create enough drama, tension and believability to make this a quality picture.It never hurts to have Robert DuVall, Mark Wahlberg and especially Joaquin Phoenix in your three lead roles. Heck even Eva Mendes shows a little acting ability in a couple of scenes. Toss in a shootout in a drug factory, a really cool (but short) car chase in the rain, and hide and seek in the tall reeds and you got an above average cop thriller/family melodrama.The three leads are well cast and do a nice job of establishing the obvious lifestyle and character differences very quickly. I especially enjoyed the scenes with Phoenix and DuVall. Special note on Alex Veadov who plays a really bad man ... he is scary.
Greetings again from the darkness. It's hard to beat a good on screen courtroom drama for tension and conflict. Despite centering around a long time judge accused of manslaughter and being defended by his estranged son, a hotshot defense attorney, this one eschews courtroom action in favor of uncomfortable and explosive family dynamics. And thanks to the acting abilities of Robert Duvall and Robert Downey Jr, that's a good thing.Mr. Downey's Iron Man/Tony Stark character has ingrained in movie goers his motor-mouthed smart-aleck persona that fits very well with the lacking-a-conscience defense attorney who only defends the type of white collar criminals who can afford his unmatched courtroom savvy. When Hank (Downey) returns home for the funeral of his mother, we quickly witness the lack of relationship with his demanding-perfection father (Duvall), and the historical details slow-drip for the next couple of hours.Hank's older brother (Vincent D'Onofrio) was once a promising baseball player whose career was cut short after an automobile accident. Hank's younger brother (Jeremy Strong, who played Lee Harvey Oswald in Parkland) is a mentally handicapped young man attached to his video camera. Hank also (of course) runs into his high school sweetheart (Vera Farmiga) and her daughter (Leighton Meester), as a reminder of what he left behind in his quaint hometown when he chose fortune and big city life.John Grisham has made a career, actually two (books and movies) about lawyers and courtrooms. As you might imagine, director David Dobkin (Wedding Crashers, Fred Claus) doesn't have Grisham's eye and ear for the courtroom, so the script slips into manipulative melodrama during the trial (think Grisham-lite). But the scenes between Duvall and Downey more than make up for the fluffy parts. The kitchen confrontation and the bathroom sequence couldn't be any more different, or any more powerful. One is the exorcism of a parent-child relationship gone bad, and the other is a vivid depiction of old age and disease.This is old-fashioned mainstream movie-making. It's about relationships and family and personality and life choices. There are no explosions or CGI or car chases. Even the key crime isn't shown. It's also not breaking any new ground, and if not for the acting, could be just another TV movie. A perfect example is Vera Farmiga, who brings an edge to a role that otherwise would be superfluous. Same with Hank's brothers. Both roles are severely underwritten, but D'Onofrio and Strong somehow make them work. Billy Bob Thornton brings an element to an otherwise not-believable role as a slick special prosecutor wearing $1000 suits. Even Dax Sheperd plays his comic relief country attorney in an understated (for him) manner.Other support work is provided by Ken Howard as the judge, Emma Trembley (Hank's daughter), Balthazar Getty as the deputy with a grudge, Grace Zabriske as the victim's vengeance seeking mother, David Krumholtz as a District Attorney, and Denis O'Hare as Duvall's doctor.In better hands, the script could have become much sharper and the film much crisper. Prepare for cheese and schmaltz, but it's difficult to imagine more fun than watching Duvall and Downey square off. If you stay for closing credits, you'll hear Willie Nelson wobbly warble through a Coldplay song.
Greetings again from the darkness. Just not much for me to latch on to in this one. Found it often slow moving, nearly boring. The big climax appears to be should the Kid jump up in court to save her or let her maintain her "dignity" by going to jail for life.The only two things that prevented this from being a total waste of time was the performance of Kate Winslet and some well photographed scenery. I certainly wouldn't rank this as one of the better films of 2008.It is always a pleasure to see the great Bruno Ganz work. Here he plays the kid's law professor who provides some life advice, which the kid basically ignores. Mr. Ganz was truly spectacular as Hitler in "Downfall".Not much else to say as the courtroom drama held little suspense and the love scenes seemed to go over the top in a meager attempt to give some depth to the film. Ralph Fiennes sleepwalks through his role as the grown up kid. There is no shortage of love stories or Holocaust films and I suggest selecting another.
Greetings again from the darkness. Guilt while laughing is an unusual experience ... well except while watching Lars and Bianca. This film is hilarious, touching and insightful. The product of genius writing by Nancy Oliver (Six Feet Under) and solid direction by Craig Gillespie ("Mr. Woodcock"), this film will force you to step back and think about how you treat those who might be a little different or struggle with social interaction.Ryan Gosling is absolutely amazing as Lars. His character redefines "being in a shell". Wounded by the pain of losing his parents and literally frightened by human touch, Gosling exudes the humanity of a injured child. The real guilty fun starts once Bianca is delivered. Bianca is the anatomically correct molded doll whom Lars treats as a real girlfriend. The ride picks up steam when his relatives and then the entire town elect to play along.The entire cast is excellent with standout performances by Emily Mortimer ("Match Point"), Paul Schneider, the great Patricia Clarkson as the very wise and very human doctor, and Kelli Garner ("Thumbsucker") looking very homely as the co-worker with a crush on Lars.Not sure how wide of audience this will find, but I highly recommend to all adults ... it is not a film for kids. Hopefully the academy takes notice of the film, the writing and the acting ... all top notch.
Greetings again from the darkness. The endless run of previews for this one had me a bit concerned that it might be a comedy with 4 funny scenes - all of which appear in the trailer. I never should have doubted director Marc Foster, who has two excellent films to his credit: "Monster's Ball" and "Finding Neverland". As different as those two films are, "Stranger Than Fiction" proves Mr. Foster has a real eye for quality scripts, regardless of genre.For anyone expecting a typical Will Ferrell film or performance, I say go in with an open mind instead. Ferrell is remarkably deadpan as IRS agent Harold Crick, who just so happens to also be the protagonist of novelist Kay Eiffel's (Emma Thompson) latest book. This is Ferrell's best performance on film to date.The film is a bit quirky, but provides an excellent look inside the world of creative writing, while at the same time allowing us to question the daily process we go through in living our lives. "Adaptation" provided a look behind the curtain at the writing process and in this film the "meet your maker" theme is an added bonus as a nice thought provoker. What if the maker is really making it up as he/she goes? What if we have more control over our destiny that some would believe? The three lead actors are all terrific. Ferrell as Harold Crick is like a blossoming flower as he discovers life with the luminescent Maggie Gyllenhaal (a baker - one who makes things for others enjoyment). Thompson is just outstanding as the blocked writer who always kills off her main characters and finally starts to question why. Few actresses would allow themselves to be filmed as disheveled and unmade-up as she appears here. Supporting work is solid by Dustin Hoffman, Queen Latifah (surely much of her role was left on the editing floor?), Tony Hale, Linda Hunt and an almost unrecognizable Tom Hulce (remember "Amadeus"!).A solid script, nice direction, wonderful acting and a very interesting theme make this an excellent film for most ages. Pay attention to the nice music provided by Austin's own Spoon.
Greetings again from the darkness. From the creatively warped mind of writer/director Guillermo del Toro ("Cronos","Mimic","Hellboy") comes a for-adults-fantasy that resembles "Alice in Wonderland" on steroids.The strong point of the film is when young Ofelia (Ivana Baquero) explores the fantastical underground world that the fairies lead her to. The effects are somewhat comical at times, but also chilling in their realism. Two other nice performances are by Sergi Lopez as the quite merciless Captain and Maribel Verdu (so wonderful in "Y tu Mama Tambien") as Mercedes.What prevents this from being the masterpiece so many are intent on it becoming is, of course, the story itself. The underground world segments are fascinating and unique and spell-binding. Where the film lags is in the real world with the guerrillas in the forest and the odd military post that the evil Captain rules. While having a touch of "Cinderella" and "Alice in Wonderland", parents should be aware that it is in no way intended for young children.The visual strength of the mystical fantasy world make this one worth seeing, but it definitely doesn't reach the level of classic or masterpiece.
Greetings again from the darkness. In the mode of "Beaches" and "Ghost", though definitely a step up in depth and class from either of those pure chick flicks. Sure this one is filled with women, but the enchanting story is truly about living one's life to the fullest and recognizing that regrets or "mistakes" are really not that at all.Vanessa Redgrave plays Ann on her death bed and Claire Danes is the twenty-something Ann in flashbacks. Redgrave's real life daughter Natasha Richardson plays one of her daughters along with Toni Collette. Meryl Streep plays Ann's lifelong friend Lila and Streep's real life daughter Mamie Gummer plays bride to be young Lila in the flashbacks. If that isn't enough women for you, a truly frightening looking Glenn Close plays young Lila's well-bred mother and Eileen Atkins is terrific as the night nurse, who doubles up as Redgrave's personal angel.OK, there really are a couple of guys in the film. Patrick Wilson ("Little Children") plays Harris, the doctor whom both Lila and Ann carry a lifelong torch for. Wilson needs to be careful or his career will be defined as the "other man". In a tremendous performance, up and comer Hugh Dancy plays Buddy, Lila's brother who pines for Ann through the bottom of a bottle.Redgrave is magnificent in her role and the scenes with she and Streep in bed are truly moving. In a film with nice performances, Claire Danes again steals the spotlight. She is absolutely amazing. Two scenes really stand out for her. Seeing her come alive after singing at the wedding as she rambles on about her dreams is mesmerizing. At the opposite end of emotions, when she lights into Buddy at the cliff, we can really feel her pent up frustrations. Happy and Mad done very well.This one will be classified as a chick flick, but it is much more. A well written story, beautifully filmed by first time director and long time cinematographer Lajos Koltai, and incredibly well acted throughout. This is quality film-making.
Greetings again from the darkness. With such a wonderful title, stellar cast, the director of Iron Man and Elf, and the collision of two distinct film genres - Westerns and Sci-Fi, we had every right to expect cinematic genius. Instead we get OK, just fine, and kind of interesting. I believe that qualifies as a letdown.My view of the film is that the western/cowboy portion is outstanding. The setting and characters are realistic and intriguing. Heck, there is steely-eyed Daniel Craig as the outlaw Jake Lonergan; grumpy Harrison Ford as Col. Dolarhyde who runs the town with iron fist; loony tunes Paul Dano as Dolarhyde's son who is itching for respect; bespectacled Sam Rockwell as a barkeep called Doc; porcelain Olivia Wilde as the not-from-around-here beauty whose presence no one seems to question; and Keith Carradine as the Sheriff trying to do the right thing. We even have the obligatory kid (Noah Ringer from The Last Airbender) and a loyal dog.The weakness of the film is with the aliens. Many have said the film would be better without the aliens. Well, wouldn't that make the title a bit ridiculous? We just needed BETTER aliens. These aliens are smart enough for intergalactic travel but they can't outsmart a bunch of rustlers? And how many times did they capture Daniel Craig just to have him escape? Not to mention that their power seems to come from gold ... and there is a shortage on their planet and ours! The beginning of the film is really, really good. It's 1837 and Lonergan wakes up in the middle of nowhere, just outside the unfriendly town of Absolution. He is wearing a metallic bracelet/shackle around his wrist and no memory of who he is or where he came from. Although there are some terrific scenes, the film kind of drifts downhill after that.All I will say about the story is that the aliens attack Absolution by kidnapping a few residents and stealing gold. The cowboys fight back with six shooters, Lonergan's bracelet, Wilde's knowledge, and some help from the Indians.What really bothers me about this one is that it should have been so much FUN! Instead, it's mostly bleak with only a few comic lines tossed in. My guess is having NINE writers associated with the film was a real problem. Each of the characters holds some interest, but the story just kind of meanders with little direction.A couple of minor irritants for me: Lonergan wakes up and mugs three crusty old cowboys and winds up with perfectly tailored chaps, pants, shirt and vest; Olivia Wilde wears the same dress all the time but never really gets dirty; the cowboys shoot the aliens with guns, arrows and spears - sometimes they die, sometimes they don't; and supposedly the aliens don't see well in daylight. Tell that to the numerous cowboys and Indians who get slaughtered in the climatic battle. Lastly, Olivia Wilde's character is the only one of her type. Where were her fellow "countrymen"? As I said, the cast is spectacular. It's always nice to see Buck Taylor in a western. Clancy Brown plays the preacher. You will remember him as the prison guard in The Shawshank Redemption. Mr. Brown maintains his top position as the largest head of all actors. Walton Goggins (Justified) plays one of Lonergan's old gang, and brings a touch of humor. And the fiddler is played by first time actor Rex Rideout. Nothing to say about that other than congrats on a terrific screen name! The film is entertaining, but just falls short of what could have been, even what should have been. Watching Daniel Craig and Harrison Ford match wits in the old west is almost enough!
Greetings again from the darkness. A Disney fairy tale like the old classics ... only this time brought to life! Beautiful princess to be, charming, handsome (though somewhat daft) Prince, evil witch/step-mother, bumbling henchman, lovable little creatures, all wrapped up in a fantastical love story.Amy Adams (so wonderful in "Junebug") is magic on screen as the pure-hearted fairy tale princess-to-be who comes to life ... oddly enough in Times Square! Ms. Adams has the bright-eyed, innocence to capture the wonderment and excitement of the damsel in distress who just wants someone to be nice to her. I would love to see the Academy recognize her performance because it is worthy. Her movements and hand gestures and sparkling eyes and upbeat voice are just perfect for the role. Of course, a nomination couldn't possibly happen because this is a sweet film aimed at kids.FINALLY ... Susan Sarandon is perfectly cast! She is not believable as a loyal wife or loving mother or love interest or fact finding reporter. As an evil witch/step-mother she has found her niche. I absolutely love her scenes as she first arrives in real life. James Marsden ("Hairspray") is also very good as the slightly goofy, but well-meaning Prince come to save the poor damsel. Patrick Dempsey is along for the ride as the single dad who befriends (and maybe more!) the lost princess. Watching his face during the Central Park musical scene is pretty funny.This is one that kids and parents and grandparents of all ages can enjoy. Certainly it is corny, but it is also good natured and warm-hearted ... two things we could all use a little more of.
Greetings again from the darkness. Typically I enjoy a bit of risk from a writer and director. However, in this case, the role of drugs ... both using and selling, just makes up too much of the story. Because of this, the characters are impossible to root for and we really don't care much if they get it together or not.What saves this one at all are the marvelous performances by a wild-eyed Ben Kingsley, soft-spoken Josh Peck and a career changing turn by Olivia Thirlby (who was so perky in "Juno"). Toss in a spaced out Mary Kate Olsen, lonely girl Jane Adams as Elinor, and nice support from Method Man and Aaron Yoo and the cast makes this watchable.Definitely looking forward to more from Thirlby and Peck, but here's hoping writer/director Jonathan Levine finds a new career. The soundtrack is a bit overbearing, but at least the songs are cool.
Greetings again from the darkness. It's always a bit thrilling when a movie catches us off-guard and is much more than expected. Walking in, I was all set for a testosterone fueled fight fest featuring BS bravado and mounds of machismo. While that element is abundantly present, writer/director Gavin O'Connor wraps the fighting around a pretty interesting story about family, bravery, desperation, pride and forgiveness.The story begins with the convergence of a broken family - two brothers and their father. The split occurred many years ago, and without the details, we are able to piece together that dad (Nick Nolte) was a violent drunken ex-Marine and the mother planned to take the two boys and run. One of the brothers (Joel Edgerton) had fallen in love and decided to stay with dad. The other brother (Tom Hardy) went with mom and even nursed her through her final days of cancer prior to his joining the Marines. The three men have been incommunicado for years, until one day Tommy (Hardy) shows up on Nolte's doorstep.What sets this one apart is the details of each of the brother's stories, very little of which I will discuss here. There is a terrific scene on the Atlantic City beach where their demons confront each other and we see that so much pain and bitterness exists despite their having been teenagers at the time of the split. They each felt abandoned by the other. Now one is an angry ex-Marine and the other is a desperate physics teacher with a family. This story couldn't possibly end any place other than smack in the middle of an MMA cage fight! Their Dad (Nolte) had trained the boys as youth wrestlers and now a giant $5 million tournament is being held. Both brothers are carrying secrets and need money to solve their problems. Their secrets drive them to risk life and limb in the cage of this most brutal activity. To best describe these characters, Tom Hardy has the presence and physique of the guy you would never consider confronting in a bar fight. Joel Edgerton is the kind that your buddies would egg you on thinking you could probably take him. Instead you would end up in the back of an ambulance.As expected, and shown in the trailer, the MMA tournament ends with the two brothers facing off and guilt-riddled dad watching from the crowd. Despite the rowdiness and violence of the fighting, very little blood is shown. That's not what this movie is about. Instead we get many adrenaline-rushes from the spectacle of the fights, plus a montage of the training leading up to the big moment. This is a crowd-pleaser in the vein of "The Fighter", but not quite as mainstream given the MMA element.The two leads were each on my list of favorite movies last year. Joel Edgerton was in the excellent and under-the-radar "Animal Kingdom", while Tom Brady was in the mega-hit "Inception" and will play Bane in the upcoming Batman film. In this film, Edgerton has more freedom with his character, but Brady does a wonderful job of capturing the quiet intensity followed by roid rage in the ring. Most surprising is the fine job turned in by Nick Nolte. He really showed up for this one. Other support work comes from Jennifer Morrison, Kevin Dunn and Frank Grillo. We also see former Olympic wrester Kurt Angle as the terrifying Russian MMA machine Yoba, and writer/director Gavin O'Connor as JJ Riley, the millionaire sponsoring the tournament.There will be comparisons made to both "Rocky" and "The Fighter" and both make sense. It is not quite at that level, but don't mistake this as some dumb fight movie made for teenage boys. There is a story and it provides further proof that men, no matter how hard they try, manage to screw up the whole family thing more often than not ... but in the end, they do try their best to make things better!
Greetings again from the darkness. On paper, a story about a controversial environmental issue (fracking for natural gas) presented by a respected director (Gus Van Sant) and featuring a strong cast (Matt Damon, John Krasinski, Frances McDormand, Rosemarie DeWitt, Hal Holbrook) would be a welcome cinematic contribution, despite an expected slant to the story-telling. Most of us enjoy, or at least accept, a well presented argument that brings light and substance to one side of the controversial issue. What no one appreciates is having their time wasted  which is exactly what this ridiculous movie does.Fluff is fluff, regardless of the subject matter that acts as a backdrop. Matt Damon and John Krasinski combined to write the screenplay based on a story by Dave Eggers. The screenplay is simple-minded, uninformed and amateurish. Did they do any research? It seems more likely they got together a couple of times, sipped a few imports, and threw together an outline. If they had then turned that outline over to a REAL writer, the ensuing mess of a movie could have been avoided. Instead, they somehow tricked Gus Van Sant into becoming the director. This process worked just fine 15 years ago when Ben Affleck collaborated with Damon and Van Sant for the excellent Good Will Hunting. That film shouldn't even be tarnished by mentioning it here.There is no shortage of articles available with actual facts on the companies and process involved with natural gas fracking. In 2010, Josh Fox even put together "GasLand", a very effective documentary on the subject. So, the idea of formulating a Hollywood dramatic version makes sense. Matt Damon's name alone ensures better exposure in one week than Mr. Fox' film has had in two plus years. What doesn't make sense is a version that is so lightweight and lacking in details, that a convoluted, half-assed love triangle steals the spotlight off what should be the real story. What is the real story? A fictional $9 billion company with the generic name Global Crosspower Solutions sends their crack closing team of Steve Butler (Damon) and Sue Thomason (McDormand) into rural Pennsylvania to buy up the land leases from the area's struggling farmers. Somehow we are supposed to believe that Steve, this hotshot rising star, makes two blunders in the first couple of days  allowing the town to vote, and getting blackout drunk in the only town bar. Then, this brilliant executive totally loses his equilibrium when a small time environmentalist (Krasinski) shows up and starts charming the locals with his terror stories of fracking.Steve walks around telling people "I'm not a bad guy", McDormand shakes her head at him and says "It's just a job", and Krasinski buddies up with everyone  including local school teacher Rosemarie DeWitt, on whom Damon has a bit of a crush. One of the more ridiculous bits is that Damon's character supposedly grew up in a farm community just like this and saw it shrivel up when the factory closed. He is probably the only guy to ever grow up on a farm who can't drive a stickshift and has to be chauffeured around by McDormand. As if all of that isn't ridiculous and lame enough, here comes the most absurd movie twist of all time. Since the first 2/3 of the movie lacks any sense of realism, the twist is not surprising, but rather just plain ludicrous. It's a cheap writing device.As for positives, it's always a joy to watch 88 year old Hal Holbrook on screen. More attention to his character could have saved the movie  he is far and away the most intelligent and interesting character. Also, Damon's character goes on a heartfelt rant towards some drunken rednecks. It's his only scene that works and ends, logically, with a punch to nose. Titus Welliver, Scoot McNairy and Lucas Black all have moments of support that deserve a better movie. The same can't be said for Damon, Krasinski and Van Sant  the blame and embarrassment falls at your feet, gentleman.
Greetings again from the darkness. I suppose we are to give Hunter S Thompson the benefit of the doubt. Some of his writings are historically invaluable and models of brilliant writing. I doubt many would include The Rum Diary in that category. Director Bruce Robinson (Jennifer Eight, Withnail and I) does the best he can with enormous help from Thompson's friend and biggest cheerleader, Johnny Depp.The film plays as an autobiography supposing Thompson's character Paul Kemp (Depp) would have been employed in 1960 at the San Juan Puerto Rico STAR, a newspaper run by English speaking Americans trying to report in Spanish speaking land. The editor is Lotterman (Richard Jenkins) who just wants simple human interest stories that the tourists will enjoy. When Kemp arrives, Lotterman asks him what kind of drinker he is. Kemp replies "the high end of social". A greater understatement may never have been uttered. Kemp, and of course, the real life Thompson ingested liquor at a pace and volume greater than a marathoner takes in water.Kemp finds a drinking buddy in Sala (Michael Rispoli) who is the paper's photographer. He is drawn into a shady land development plot by Sanderson (Aaron Eckhart), an American looking to capitalize financially by raping the undeveloped beach front land. He needs the help of Kemp to "sell" the project to investors, tourists and locals. Not surprisingly, Kemp's vision is a bit cloudy and he screws this up while also turning the head of Sanderson's lady, Chenault (Amber Heard).Depp does a standout job as Thompson again (Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas) with his speech pattern and ever present sunglasses. The feel of the 1960's is on display with fashion and autos, but this one just didn't do it for me. I suppose the message from Thompson here is that he did what he always envisioned himself doing ... he went hard after the establishment bad guys and brought them down hard. However, this story rings a bit hollow and there are just too many missing pieces and too many holes.
Greetings again from the darkness. While reading "Moneyball: The Art of Winning an Unfair Game" by Michael Lewis, I never once considered what it might look like as a movie. And I am the kind of guy who looks at a mailbox and wonders if a movie about a mailman might be interesting (Costner proved me wrong). If you are a baseball fan, you should see this movie. If you are not a baseball fan, the movie works very well as a metaphor for any business maverick who takes a risk and analyzes their company or industry from an entirely new perspective. The game of baseball was over a hundred years old when Oakland A's GM Billy Beane turned the institution on its ear.Mr. Lewis spent most of the 2002 season with the Oakland team and had full access to GM Billy Beane, Asst GM Paul DePodesta, and their process in putting together a team that would contend for the American League title ... all under the severe handicap of ridiculous salary constraints placed by team owners.In this movie, Brad Pitt is spot on as Billy Beane - the cocky, tobacco spitting former jock trying desperately to put his stamp on the institution of baseball. Due to some lawsuit of which I know nothing, the DePodesta role is renamed Peter Brand and is played by Jonah Hill, who looks absolutely nothing like Mr. DePodesta (who played baseball at Harvard). Despite this, Mr. Hill does an terrific job of becoming the statistical whiz who can analyze data and place value on players ... a skill he is obsessed with even 10 years later.Watching Beane trying to communicate the point of change to the old school scouts is simply priceless and painful. Years of scouting based on body type and girlfriend ranking is replaced by statistical data spit out by Brand's computer. The real fun comes when the team's field Manager, Art Howe (Phillip Seymour Hoffman), flashes his bah-humbug attitude, bucks Beane's system and continues coaching old school ... from the gut. It's not until Beane takes away all other options that Howe is forced to follow the new plan.Baseball fans know that Bill James is the godfather of sabermetrics in baseball. For years his formulas and calculations were ignored by owners, managers and scouts. Thanks to the A's success, ALL teams now utilize some form of sabermetrics combined with old fashioned scouting. Every measurable event in a game is tracked and results are analyzed. Many fans say it has sucked the joy out of the game. Others say it has provided opportunities for players previously ignored. I prefer to look at it as the same in any industry ... everyone looks for a competitive advantage. Never ignore a tool or approach that can make your company more profitable or your team more competitive.Being a long time Texas Ranger fan, I must mention some of the ties to this story. The Rangers current manager, Ron Washington (portrayed by Brent Jennings), was an infield coach on those Oakland A's and gets a few scenes. Grady Fuson was the Head Scout for the A's and later came to the Rangers as co-GM or Asst GM (depending who you ask) but had a very limited stay. Mike Venafro was a relief pitcher for the A's who gets traded in 2002 so they can pick up a more valued reliever to take his spot. It should also be noted that current Rangers GM Jon Daniels and his talented staff have a place for sabermetrics and their formula has worked.The director of the movie is Bennett Miller, who was responsible for the excellent "Capote", which also starred Phillip Seymour Hoffman. Bennett's DP here is Wally Pfister, who works frequently with the great Christopher Nolan. Pfister's camera work here is superb. The amazing writing team of Steve Zaillian and Aaron Sorkin provide a script with sharp dialogue and just enough baseball lingo so that everyone can follow. Supporting actors include Chris Pratt (Parks & Recreation) as Scott Hatteberg, poster child for sabermetrics, Robin Wright as Beane's ex-wife, and fantastic writer/director Spike Jonze as Wright's zenned-out new husband and the polar opposite of Beane.I need to make a point about the performance of Jonah Hill. His movies "Superbad" and "Get Him to the Greek" are not my type of movies so I was never a big fan. That changed when I saw "Cyrus" last year. During the Q&A after this screening, Mr. Hill pointed out that "Cyrus" was the bridge that allowed him to be cast in this movie ... his bridge to drama. He went on to state that his acting heroes are Dustin Hoffman and Bill Murray because they have had successful careers in both comedy and drama. I can honestly say that it is easy to see Jonah Hill having a Bill Murray type career, especially since he has now lost so much weight - a significant weight loss after the filming of Moneyball. He is no longer the funny fat guy. He is a talented actor.
Greetings again from the darkness. It is pretty unusual that I would consider a movie a must-see and give it only a 7 rating. The reason to see this is for the knockout, terrifying performance of Mo'Nique. Her raging turn reminds me a bit of Peter Boyle in Monster's Ball - you just can't take your eyes off of her despite the feeling of totally disgust.The film itself is a bit uneven, though it does have some powerful moments. The best scenes are those with mother (Mo'Nique) and daughter (fabulous newcomer Gabby Sidibe). The syrupy, not so believable moments come in the Paula Patton's classroom and the office of Mariah Carey (though Ms. Carey is dowdied down with no make-up, stringy hair and a rough accent). Also Lenny Kravitz brings an attempt to lighten the mood as a male nurse.Certainly the subject matter of Sapphire's novel make for some gut-wrenching scenes and extremely volatile subject matter. Discussions after this could go on for days ... usually a sign of a top notch film. Again, let me say, that I see this one falling short as a great movie, but definitely recommend it for the performances ... especially the Oscar nomination bound Mo'Nique.
Greetings again from the darkness. When a writer/director has a resume that includes "Kuffs" and "Cutthroat Island", his latest release is of course met with skepticism at best. Bruce Evans takes a solid step forward over those two efforts, but still leaves himself plenty of room to improve.The story is actually fascinating and in the hands of a better writer could actually have been a classic psycho-thriller. Instead, it is a watchable and at times very entertaining effort despite Demi Moore's worst ever performance. From her first scene with Lindsay Crouse through the film's ending, Moore is wooden and totally unbelievable as the millionaire detective.On the other hand, Kevin Costner and William Hurt appear to be having a grand time as yin-yang of Mr. Brooks. Hurt is Costner's thrill seeking alter-ego and the technique of the two sides of the brain carrying on a conversation is quite creepy ... thanks especially to the delicious efforts of Mr. Hurt.Given the quite advanced age (in Hollywood terms) of the three leads, we can't blame the producers from tossing in the appeal to the youngsters with red hot comedian Dane Cook in a pretty impressive dramatic turn. Cook only releases his infamous fury a couple of times and is actually quite believable in this crucial role.Other supporting roles went to Marg Hellenberger (given little to do as Mrs. Brooks) and Amber Tamblyn look-alike Danielle Panabaker who flashes some real acting chops in a dream sequence. Looking forward to more from her.Definitely not at the level of "Silence of the Lambs", this one is definitely worth checking out for the scenes with both Costner and Hurt.
Greetings again from the darkness. A nostalgic feeling generated by nostalgic filmmaking at the hands of JJ Abrams and classic Spielberg. Yes, I meant to use nostalgic twice ... the film has a familiar feel to it, but also entirely new twists and effects. That's what happens when the master (Spielberg) and the star pupil (Abrams) unite.Part of the nostalgia is that this is kind of a throwback to the blockbuster era that Spielberg helped create. There are bits and pieces of Jurassic Park, E.T., The Goonies, *Batteries not Included, and Jaws. Spielberg has always had a nice feel for kids and emotions, and in this film the genius of Abrams' script and special effects make for a spectacular combination.You know there is nothing more fun for these filmmakers than a story about smart, outcast kids obsessed with making a movie! Throw in the adolescent battle over the out-of-reach older girl, the somewhat demented kid who just loves explosions, the sensitive kid dealing with the death of his mother, the wise beyond her years girl who is a natural actress, and the chubby, driven boy with a camera ... mix it up with a couple of clueless parents and the evil, secretive Air Force, and you have quite the exciting small town Ohio drama with comedic elements and startling special effects.Not going to say anything about the "surprise" that was hinted in the trailer, but what I will say is that the first hour of this movie was pure movie magic to me. Unfortunately, the second half was a slight let down, though not horrible at all. I just enjoyed the pure human elements on display before it became just another ...The film really rides on the shoulders of Elle Fanning (probably the last time I will reference her as Dakota's little sis). Ms. Fanning has proved again that she may be the most talented of the acting sisters. She really has a feel for her scenes and clearly melts the heart of young Joe Lamb, played by newcomer Joel Courtney. Also excellent are Riley Griffiths as Charles the movie maker, and Ryan Lee as Cary the demolition "expert". Joe's dad is played by Kyle Chandler (Friday Night Lights), but again, this film really belongs to the kids.The film is rated PG-13 for some pretty intense scenes and some language that many prefer not to hear coming from kids. It's too bad more films "like" this aren't made, but that's probably a factor of not many filmmakers being in the class of Spielberg and Abrams (Lost, Star Trek).
Greetings again from the darkness. Well I was not ready for the horror genre to be turned on its ear, but that's exactly what co-writers Joss Whedon and Drew Goddard (also director) have done here. Rest assured that your favorite aspects of horror films will be lampooned, or at least parodied. There are times you will jump and laugh simultaneously, but mostly I found myself checking off the influences/targets of the filmmakers.There is no way to comment on this film without offering up spoilers, and I will not do that. What I can tell you is that you'll be reminded of films such as Scream, Friday the 13th, Bubba Ho-Tep, Night of the Living Dead, The Evil Dead, Saw, and dare I say, elements of The Twilight Zone ... you know the parts where you know there is more going on than you are seeing, but you can't quite put it all together.The movie starts out with a tongue-in-cheek assembly of generic characters from most horror films: the fun-loving jock (Chris Hemsworth, pre-Thor), the "bad" girl (Anna Hutchison), the "good" girl (Kristen Connolly), the brainiac (Jesse Williams), and of course the comic relief stoner waxing philosophical (a very effective Fran Kranz). This group piles into a borrowed RV and heads to the cabin. And yes, we get the obligatory stop at the run down gas station manned by the straight-from-Deliverance attendant played by Tim De Zarn.We learn quickly that something odd is going on and our heroes are really playthings in some kind of cosmic game being conducted at an underground lab run by Richard Jenkins and Bradley Whitford. That much is shown in the trailer and that's the end of what I can say. After that, the choice is yours ... just like in the basement.I have no idea who to recommend this to because the last 15 minutes are pure mayhem, and you will either be fully onboard with this Disneyland ride gone bad, or you will have wanted to leave for the past hour. The movie was selected for opening night at SXSW and it truly is a twisted, even demented jab at all things horror. Only you can decide what comes next.
Greetings again from the darkness. Lee Child has written 17 Jack Reacher books since 1997, and it's a bit surprising that it took Hollywood this long to latch on to this enigmatic lone wolf drifter who doesn't so much care about laws as he does right and wrong. Fans of the books were outraged when it was announced Tom Cruise would play the 6'5 hulking Reacher, as much of the character's appeal stems from his ability to physically dominate a situation while using very few words.Unfortunately I can't ease the minds of those fans of the pulpy series, but rather to encourage them to give this a shot. Author Child was probably ecstatic when Mr. Cruise took an interest in the character, despite the obvious conflicts. Very few actors can command screen presence like Cruise, especially in action sequences. That's where this gets a bit dicey. This is not an action movie. It's an investigative mystery thriller that includes 3-4 action sequences.The film has a real 1970's feel to it along the lines of Billy Jack or Walking Tall mixed with Dirty Harry or numerous westerns with strong, silent types. See, Reacher is a former military investigator with a mind that is always a step or two ahead of everyone else. He looks at the obvious evidence and immediately notes a list of doubts where none previously existed.A seemingly random sniper attack is a bold way to begin a movie given recent real-life events, but the opening sequence is executed with methodical precision and daring so that we can quickly believe in Reacher's conspiracy theories. In the blink of an eye, Reacher has appeared out of nowhere (his usual address) and is in the middle of the investigation being conducted by the lawyer of the wrongly accused James Barr (Joseph Sikora). The defense lawyer is played by Rosamund Pike, whose character is the daughter of the District Attorney (Richard Jenkins). The police detective is played by David Oyelowo and it's easy to tell something isn't completely right with city hall.Reacher roams the beautiful city of Pittsburgh asking questions and piecing together the puzzle left behind by creepy villain The Zec (Werner Herzog) and his henchman Charlie (Jai Courtney). We get three Reacher fistfights, a "Bullit" type car chase in a beautiful 1970 Chevelle, and some military sharp-shooting from the depths of a quarry. What we don't get is the Hollywood tradition of a Cruise sprint. Not once do we see his trademark all-out dash to or from something. In fact, he moves much like his Stacey Jaxx character from his recent musical Rock of Ages.Director Christopher McQuarrie won an Oscar, and my ever-lasting respect, for his "The Usual Suspects" screenplay. This story is infinitely less-complicated, but it does offer some fun moments thanks to the Reacher character. Maybe things would be a little better if a guy like Reacher really existed. Totally off the grid and taking down the bad guys that the cops can't quite catch. Sounds a bit like "Dexter", only Reacher's code includes doling out physical pain and then moving on to the next town ... with a new set of Goodwill duds and a fresh toothbrush.Caleb Deschanel (Director of Photography) provides a really sharp look to the film and, thankfully, doesn't cheat on the action scenes. Herzog (a highly respected director) has a great look for a bad guy, but is painfully under-utilized here. Rosamund Pike may simply be my least favorite actress working today. Her limited range is cringe-worthy on multiple occasions and I was thankful that Reacher had no "interest" in her. Robert DuVall makes a colorful appearance as the late-arriving character that breaks open the case, and he seems to relish the reunion with his "Days of Thunder" co-star. The most interesting character to me was Jai Courtney, who will be seen next as Bruce Willis' son in "A Good Day to Die Hard".If you haven't read the Lee Child books, you will probably readily accept Cruise as Reacher. If you are a fan of the franchise, your eyes and brain will have massive conflicts for the first hour, but then acceptance creeps in, and you'll probably agree that it's a simple, effective piece of entertainment ... far superior to most Nicolas Cage movies these days! (www.MovieReviewsFromTheDark.wordpress.com)
Greetings again from the darkness. Bruce Willis reprises his role as NYPD's supercop, John McClane, in by far, the best of the series since the original. Director Len Wiseman brings a fresh look and young eyes to the franchise and wisely and cleverly incorporates a story line that appeals to the Gen Y audience.Rising star Timothy Olyphant ("Deadwood") makes a wonderful virtual bad guy who was disrespected by the federal government when he dramatically demonstrated how insecure the U.S. systems were. Cast aside like Lex Luthor, he attempts to gain his revenge by shutting down society and bilking billions from Americans. Olyphant is aided in a most beautiful way by the lovely Maggie Q (MI:III) who gives Willis a run for his money and is the subject of some of the film's funniest lines.Ultra-hacker Justin Long gets dragged through the mess by Willis because he is a target of the bad guys and because he is smart enough to stop the bad guys ... oh, and also because Wiseman wanted some appealing youth to accompany Willis on this mission. Along the way, Long and Willis encounter uber-hacker Kevin Smith in a terrific segment that almost allows the viewer to catch his or her breath.Last, but certainly not least, Mary Elizabeth Winstead appears as Willis's daughter and the casting couldn't be better. Ms. Winstead was last seen in Tarantino's segment of "Grindhouse" and is obviously ready for meatier roles. Look out for this girl.The "Die Hard" series has always been about action and heart with a dose of comedy. Director Wiseman takes the special effects to a whole new level and the scenes with Willis and Long are really good. As for the comedy, it is probably the funniest in the series. Check this one out for a truly good time at the movies!
Greetings again from the darkness. Upon watching the trailer, it would be easy and understandable to simply write off this movie as a ridiculous piece of junk produced merely to capitalize on the popularity of Seth MacFarlane (Family Guy creator). That would be a mistake. While much of what Ted has to say will burn your ears, the insight that goes into his lines is often unmistakeably brilliant.The movie opens with terrific narration from Patrick Stewart. It's done in A Christmas Story style, only with a caustic and deadpan irreverence that will jolt you before the opening credits have even rolled. We learn the story of 9 year old John Bennett, a social outcast who receives a teddy bear for Christmas. First, what parent buys their 9 year old a teddy bear??? Anyway, that night, under the covers, young John wishes that he and Ted could be lifelong friends. In the morning, he awakes to find a sweet, lively teddy who startles everyone.The talking bear becomes an instant celebrity and is even booked on the Johnny Carson show ... the first of many 1980's pop culture references. As in the case of Corey Feldman (pointed out by the narrator), celebrity often fades. Flash forward 25 years and John and Ted are living together with John's girlfriend (Mila Kunis). The boys spend most of their time smoking pot and watching TV re-runs and worshiping the 1980 Flash Gordon cult movie. It's a typical man-child existence except that one of them is a vile, 4 letter-word spewing teddy bear, and there is no logical reason that the beautiful Kunis hasn't walked away from the four year relationship with the hapless loser John.Mr. MacFarlane's true talent lies in laughing at our societal norms and encouraging us to laugh at ourselves. He does this through Stewie, the pet dog on Family Guy, and now here with a talking teddy bear. He holds little back in ripping our obsession with celebrity or our clinical anxiety towards all things Politically Correct. Luckily the same rules don't apply for talking teddies, so we hear things that we aren't even allowed to think. Because he can, MacFarlane mixes in his love of the 80's with numerous references and we even get odd cameos from Tom Skerritt, Nora Jones and Ryan Reynolds. The most bizarre reference takes up a substantial part of the movie ... Sam Jones, the star of Flash Gordon, appears as an aged party animal, teaching the boys some new tricks. Most of this will be dead time to those unfamiliar with the 1980 movie ... and evidently none of us have been impacted by it like MacFarlane.The movie is a mash-up of John Waters, Bad Santa, Jackass and just about every stereotypical slacker-buddy movie from the past 25 years. It's all of that and none of that at the same time. Depending on your viewpoint, Ted is either a crass, irreverent, totally inappropriate waste of movie time, or it's a comical, insightful observation on where we are as a society right now. Only you can decide ... just please don't take your kids.
Greetings again from the darkness. What director Charles Ferguson and writers Chad Beck and Adam Bolt deliver is an emotional expose' into the faces behind the financial crisis and a quick education on the basic causes. This is not an in-depth thesis put together by a Harvard economist ... though as we learn, there may not be as much value in that as we once assumed! The emotions ranged from sadness to anger to disgust. There are even moments of laughter as these blatantly arrogant types weakly attempt to defend themselves - at least those courageous enough to submit to an interview.The point the filmmakers clearly set out to prove is that the mess was a collaboration of politicians (including Presidents), Ratings Agencies, Investment Managers, leaders of Banking giants, the Federal Reserve, the Boards of Directors from Financial Services conglomerates and the once sacred Academic leaders. The film asks the question: "Who can we trust?". The answer is, unfortunately, NO ONE. What we can do is learn, demand changes and hold accountable those responsible.The film give a brief outline of derivatives, CDO's, the mortgage mess, and how the Ratings agencies' "opinions" led to the demise of many jobs, nest eggs, and long-standing companies. The other thing it clearly shows is how these Financial giants profited GREATLY from the collapse of many individual investors. In fact, they purposefully withheld information and misled the general public into making investment decisions that knowingly stood no chance at success for anyone but the Investment firms.Since distrust of politicians and corporate types has been rampant for years, I believe one of the most disappointing revelations was the pulling back of the curtain on the Academic world. Those thought to be unbiased analysts and commentators have been exposed to be highly paid consultants for the very people manipulating the markets. Ouch.It is important to note that no President goes untouched here - from Reagan forward. If you believe Obama to be above this mess, you would be mistaken. Much of his official financial advisory group is composed of the very same players responsible for the deceit these past few years. Think it's going to change? Those in charge clearly bring truth to the words "Greed is good". They have no sense of right and wrong. They give no consideration to making the world a better place. What matters is how much better can they make their own life. The segment on Lehman executive Richard Fuld summed it up best. His day was planned so that he only had 3 to 4 seconds exposure to real people ... his daily steps from his limo to a programmed elevator whisking him away to his private world.
Greetings again from the darkness. Many of us still catch ourselves asking "Why is this news?" while watching the local newscasts. We ask this despite knowing sensationalist journalism is the way of the world, and writer/director Dan Gilroy reminds us ... if it bleeds, it leads.Jake Gyllenhaal continues his progression as one of the most fascinating actors working today. Here he plays Lou Bloom, a fast-talking, self-help studying, ultra-charming sociopath, with creepy bug eyes (thanks to a 20-25 lb weight loss) and an even creepier grin. Mr Gyllenhaal nails the role in a way that reminds of Travis Bickle of Taxi Driver (Robert DeNiro was 33 at the time - the same age as Jake now).Three other movies came to mind while watching this: Network (the lack of a conscience approach to ratings), Drive (the stylistic camera work and loner lead character), and Body Double (a fascinating Brian DePalma film from years ago). Rene Russo is the veteran news woman who encourages and enables the Bloom character to use his "good eye" to pursue the money shots ... defined as anything that strikes fear into the suburban world.Gyllenhaal is all in for his role as Bloom. Nightcrawling is the label given to stringers (private cameramen) who compete for the video that will lead the newscasts. Bloom's google-based training has turned him into a Tony Robbins type who blows through dialogue at a speed every bit as fast as he drives his red Dodge Challenger to the next tragedy. Bloom is the epitome of charm in the wrong hands. Think Ted Bundy with a camera. While Bundy actually committed the murders, Bloom blurs the line between recorder of history and influencing the criminal action. He also delivers one of the first on screen 'chasing a car chase' scenes.This is Dan Gilroy's directorial debut, though he has written over films, including The Bourne Legacy, which was directed by his brother Tony. Dan also wrote my of my favorite rarely seen films entitled The Fall (2006). Dan Gilroy is married to Rene Russo, and her calm, yet equally sleazy, presence works well with the quirky, in-your-face Gyllenhaal character. Cinematographer Robert Elswit (known for his work with Paul Thomas Anderson) beautifully captures the nighttime energy of Los Angeles, as well as the brutal and savage crime scenes.Gyllenhaal is the real deal here, and somehow makes this frightening monster believable as a guy who could walk amongst us every day (or night). Early on in the film, his character is asking for a job and spouts off a line that includes a bit about being "raised in the self-esteem movement so popular in schools". It's our first glimpse of his psychosis which is also grounded in reality.
Greetings again from the darkness. As a lover of indie films, I've long been an admirer of actress and director Sarah Polley. Her two feature film directorial efforts "Away From Her" and "Take This Waltz" displayed not just an eye for the camera, but more importantly, a unique story-telling vision. This time she turns and focuses her story telling skills on her own family, in what is a very intimate pull back of the curtain.Polley takes a three-tiered documentary approach to the telling of stories associated with her mother (actress Diane Polley). Sarah intertwines interviews with her brothers, sisters and family friends with the voice recording (by her father Michael Polley) of his memoirs, and some staged Super-8 looking video of reenactments of certain events from these corresponding stories. It's a different approach and works to keep the viewer engaged, even in the slower segments.Much has been made of the variances within the stories told by the family members. In fact, the stories all seem remarkably similar but it nonetheless is a terrific study in memories and how we come to view our version as the truth. Of course, the obvious answer is that how a memory impacts us does in fact become our truth. Within the first few minutes of the movie, one of Sarah's siblings says something along the lines of "Why would anyone care about our family?". At this point, we tend to agree with her. Even once the real story and secrets are exposed, it's not difficult to think that these stories could be replayed for numerous families throughout the globe. Sure, the Polley family has the whole showbiz thing, but for family relationships and personal secrets and associated pain, I'm not convinced there is anything extraordinary here ... other than the fantastic presentation.The value here, other than exorcising any personal Polley demons, is with the technical brilliance Sarah shows as a documentarian and story-teller. She spends little time on camera, but we realize this is much more her own story than that of her mother (as it's set up). Clearly Michael was not fully engaged as a doting father, though that's hardly unusual. It appears their relationship comes courtesy of Sarah's commitment to making it happen ... before, during and after the big reveal. Polley's talents as a filmmaker have probably brought her family closer, despite the remaining question of exactly what her motivation was.
Greetings again from the darkness. I really tried not to dislike this movie, but it just gave me nothing. The only two scenes that gave me brief hope were the grammar exchange between Jennifer Connelly and Luis Guzman, and Drew Barrymore spouting off the maze of communication devices that prevent actual human contact in today's social environment.As a guy, I find it amazing that the four lead women roles (Connelly, Barrymore, Jennifer Aniston and Ginnifer Goodwin) are all north of 30 (with two pushing 40). Haven't they learned anything? The only young one is Scarlett Johansson, who manages to screw up the lives of two guys. And speaking of guys ... they are all buffoons (Justin Long, Kevin Connolly, Bradley Cooper), except for boring Ben Affleck in the most unbelievable of all the fairy tales. When Kris Kristofferson makes his entrance, the anticipation grew. Within a couple of minutes it was crushed as he lay on the floor grasping his chest.I know people are stupid when it comes to relationships. Otherwise, Dr Laura, Dr Phil, Oprah, etc etc wouldn't be nearly as rich as they are. Still, it shouldn't take a book and a movie for people to have some understanding of when there is a mutual connection. My only warning is don't mistake this as a date movie. It is much more a ladies night out so that afterwards they can drink martini's and talk about what beasts men are.
Greetings again from the darkness. While a logical attempt to capitalize on the highly entertaining and profitable X Men series, this prequel just doesn't have much to offer other than a couple of fun fight scenes.Hugh Jackman is in full glory and seems to be having fun playing Logan/Wolverine, but his "brother" Liev Schreiber is totally miscast and would have been better as Stryker ... though Danny Huston handles it just fine. Will i am, Tayor Kitsch (as Gambit) and Ryan Reynolds provide the only real characters of interest outside of the shiny the apparatus for wolverine.I guess it is a credit to the film series that we have come to expect more. Though it will be fine with true fans, this won't bring in many new ones.
Greetings again from the darkness. The concern coming in was that this would be like an All-Star game, which as any sports fan will tell you, is typically a massive letdown. Assembling so many super heroes and colorful characters into one movie: Captain America, Thor, Iron Man, Hawkeye, Black Widow, Nick Fury, and Loki ... would probably lead to either mass confusion, a 4 hour movie, or short straws for a couple of characters. Somehow director Joss Whedon has avoided the pitfalls and delivered a huge action film that is loads of fun for everyone, including the fanboys.Whedon does a remarkable job of giving each character their fair share of screen time, and somehow manages to make the interaction between the characters the best part of the movie. There is some terrific dialogue and the number of quick-witted exchanges are too numerous to recount. While this would be expected from Robert Downey, Jr's Iron Man, I must admit to being pleasantly surprised at Chris Hemsworth's Thor and especially Mark Ruffalo's Dr Banner/Hulk. The movie contains quite a few laugh outloud moments, which is pretty impressive in a filled theatre.If you are going to combine six super heroes in a movie, you need a bad guy. A villain. Actually, a super villain. Tom Hiddleston as Loki is up to the task. For me, he was a weak link in Thor, but here is a full-fledged, powerful evil mastermind looking to gain power by stealing the Tesseract (Cosmic Cube), commanding an alien army, and ruling earth. Hiddleston is clearly having fun and it shows. For the movie to work at all, his plan and power must stand up to the impressive line up of good guys he is fighting. That is certainly the case.Scarlett Johansson as Black Widow has come a long way from her brief work in Iron Man2, and we really get to know more about Natasha the Russian spy ... although her accent fades in and out. Jeremy Renner as Hawkeye seems a bit out of place, but Renner is so cool, we don't really care. Chris Evans as Captain America does a wonderful job of taking control of the band of misfits and displays the leadership expected of a super-soldier. We even get a good dose of Agent Coulson (Phil to his friends) and Clark Gregg's deadpan deliver is a great addition. Samuel L Jackson (as Nick Fury) will be adding hundreds of millions more to his current record of being the highest-grossing actor of all-time.Gwyneth Paltrow is back as Pepper Potts. Since last we saw her, she has evidently been shopping for short shorts and helping design the new Stark Tower. Natalie Portman makes a creative cameo, reprising her awful role in Thor. Stellan Skarsgard is back as a believable scientist. Powers Boothe appears as a member of the Council that Fury reports to. The great Harry Dean Stanton has a comical scene as a security guard who stumbles onto Hulk's mess. And of course, Stan Lee makes his well-deserved cameo appearance - a tradition in the Marvel movies.Much of the credit for this must go to Joss Whedon. He may finally be out of his Buffy the Vampire Slayer shadow, as this movie is quite an accomplishment. Entertaining and funny for the masses, yet detailed enough for the comic book fan boys. I was thinking how much fun this would be for a 10-12 year old, and how my mind might have exploded if something like this existed in my childhood. Even comparing this to the Christoper Reeve Superman movies will help you realize just how far super heroes movies have come.
Greetings again from the darkness. Psychological Thrillers have long been my favorite genre of film. The best ones cause us to examine our own thoughts while analyzing the actions of others we probably don't quite understand. Unfortunately, most scripts fall short in complexity and stimulation, and leave us with a half-empty character study. Director John Curran (The Painted Veil) and writer Angus MacLachlan (the superb Junebug) offer up a just-miss.Robert DeNiro plays a parole officer on the brink of retirement. He is the guy that lives and works by the book to suppress his inner demons of which we get a glimpse in the film's opening. Despite the horror, he and his wife stay married for decades ... the relationship is built on a false worship of scripture and plenty of nerve-deadening booze. DeNiro decides to finish out his current files, one of which belongs to Edward Norton. He is an 8 year convict, serving a sentence for a crime that ended with the death of his grandparents.The real fun begins when Norton enlists his schoolteacher wife, played by Milla Jovovich, to invade DeNiro's cold facade. So really what we have is: DeNiro trying not to feel anything, Norton trying to pull one over on DeNiro either by himself or with his wife, and Jovovich trying desperately to obey her husband while playing evil mind and body games with DeNiro. This is the point I like to call "the table is set".Unfortunately, none of these story lines really go deep. The best seems to be Jovovich and DeNiro, but even that falls short of real grit. So much potential here and the actors all seem up for anything. It's just the script lets them off easy.Frances Conroy is excellent as DeNiro's wife whose had her soul locked away. We never really get the full scoop on the Norton/Jovovich connection, but by the end, that doesn't seem to matter. Is the film watchable? Yes. Could it have offered more deliciously evil interaction between these characters? Absolutely.
Greetings again from the darkness. Come on ... who wouldn't get excited about a movie that mixes magic with the heist genre, and fills the cast with stars old and new? Director Louis Leterrier (The Transporter) is clearly engaged with the material, and maybe his vision of "just one more twist" is what keeps it from reaching the next level.Magic is inherently a very difficult subject for movies. Why? Because with magic, human nature is such that we are always trying to "catch" the sleight of hand. With movies, we have come to accept the fact that any special effect is possible. We rarely ask "how". That kind of takes away the mystery, eh? Maybe the best magic movie to date is The Prestige, but even that movie was made stronger by the story of its characters ... something this latest lacks.Heist movies, on the other hand, have historically produced some of the most fun and thrilling times on screen. Everyone loves a clever caper ... so long as we aren't on the wrong end. What doesn't work in either genre, and especially when they are blended, is a story that defies logic. We don't mind being tricked. In fact, it's kind of fun getting to the end and realizing you are part of the "gotcha". What we don't like is being cheated.The premise is terrific. An unknown benefactor secretly assembles The Four Horsemen - a hand-picked (by a hoodie dude) group consisting of Jessie Eisenberg, the smug super-illusionist; Woody Harrelson, the wise-cracking mentalist; tart escape artist (think Houdini with piranha) Isla Fisher; and street-hustler pickpocket (Artful Dodger type) Dave Franco. The group is bank rolled by industrial tycoon Michael Caine, and is soon enough headlining a giant Las Vegas extravaganza. Their trick is to rob a French bank vault by transporting an audience member, video streaming the job, and showering the audience with the stolen cash. They do this under the watchful eye of magic naysayer Morgan Freeman, a huckster who earns a buck exposing the tricks of magicians.Soon enough, an FBI agent (Mark Ruffalo) and Interpol agent (Melanie Laurent) are working together trying to stop the next job, which Morgan Freeman has warned them is really a set-up for a huge finale. The movie has some really fun moments, but with all of Morgan Freeman's warnings that we (and Ruffalo) are always a step behind, we can't help but think ahead ... and there is only one super twist that makes all of this click.In fact, I would argue that there are too many twists here. The basic story was enough and would have benefited from us getting to know the main characters. Instead, they are merely chess pieces who spout one-liners in order. In particular, the characters of Woody Harrelson and Melanie Laurent could have gone much deeper. But that clashes with what the filmmakers were after ... big, fast, wild, glitzy, cute, clever, and twisty. So don't be tricked into thinking. Turn off your brain and take in the wild, twisty ride ... even if it does defy logic, and we know "it's all part of the show".
Greetings again from the darkness. It's been almost 10 years since Arnold Schwarzenegger was last top billed in a movie. He's remained in the headlines most of that time ... some good, some not so much. If you are an Arnold fan, it's nice to see him back on screen. And what do you expect from a Schwarzenegger movie? Big guns, big muscles and big laughs from the one-liners. The first U.S. film from noted Korean director Jee-woon Kim delivers all three ... and little else.Arnold plays Sheriff Ray who has semi-retired to a quiet life in an Arizona border town after a career on an Los Angeles police drug team. His deputies are played by screen vet and comic relief Luis Guzman, Zach Gilford, and Jaimie Alexander. An FBI Agent played by Forest Whitaker contacts the Sheriff and lets him know an escaped drug lord played by Eduardo Noriega is headed through the town on his way to cross the border. Peter Stormare's group is in town to clear the path. Things get messy from there.The tongue-in-cheek parts work best, but the plot and overall script are pretty lacking in substance. This could almost be viewed as a Schwarzenegger tribute film. The self-deprecating humor keeps the film rolling, but some of it just tries too hard ... especially the segments with Johnny Knoxville. Some of the action is so over-the-top it draws the desired laughs from the audience, but be prepared for lots of gun play and plenty of Chevy commercial time.We also get a quick scene from Harry Dean Stanton and Rodrigo Santoro has a small role as a former war hero - turned town drunk who gets his shot at redemption. But make no mistake, this is Arnold's movie and his chance to show that he still has it. The screen presence is still there, but his skills might play better in a more limited support role. That said, I triple dog dare you to not crack a smile when he is firing guns, in a frantic car chase through the corn fields, and engaged in hand to hand combat on the border bridge. Fun stuff.
Greetings again from the darkness. A sequel?? How dare they? When I first heard that Tim Burton was taking on Lewis Carroll's story, I was very excited. What better director to take on this most peculiar work than the man who brought us Edward Scissorhands, Sleepy Hollow, Beetlejuice, Batman and others? The man is a visual genius. But a sequel?? Early in the film, we find an almost 20 year old Alice being proposed to in front of a large crowd of high society types. She spots a rabbit in the bushes and excuses herself, chases the rabbit, and quickly falls down the rabbit hole. The wild ride begins.Mr. Burton's visual feast takes Alice (Mia Wasikowska) through many of the situations we (and she) are familiar with. The main difference is this is her "return" trip to Wonderland and she is no longer a little girl. She is told her destiny is to defeat the Jabberwocky so that the evil Red Queen's ruling power can be assumed by her sister, the good white queen. This destiny takes Alice through many sites and characters we don't often see.Johnny Depp is cast as her friend the Mad Hatter. His "mad" look is achieved through a bird's nest of red hair, giant yellow saucer-sized eyes and make-up that would make Lady Gaga jealous. The Red Queen, who captures the Hatter, is played wonderfully by Mr. Burton's wife, Helena Bonham Carter. She has marvelous voice inflections and is as quick with an "off with their heads" as she is a "I need a pig". Her sister, the White Queen, is played oddly but beautifully by Anne Hathaway. The sibling rivalry is a hoot.We are treated to voice work from three of the best ever: Christopher Lee, Michael Gough and Alan Rickman. Unfortunately, Mr. Lee and Mr. Gough have VERY limited lines, but it was nice of them to contribute. Also contributing are Stephen Fry, Michael Sheen, Timothy Spall and Matt Lucas.Once I adjusted to the fact that this was not a re-imagining of the original works, but rather more of a sequel or next step, the film worked fine for me. What I missed was the amazing word play of the great Lewis Carroll. Of course, anyone who actually understood his writings will probably be a bit bored with this version. Luckily, that affects very few! Mr. Burton's visuals are successful and will probably appeal to most ages. The 3-D seems to have been an after-thought and is most effective with the really cool Cheshire cat. The youngest kids will struggle to follow the Mad Hatter's accent-heavy dialogue, but the pictures and characters (Tweedle-Dee and Dumb) should be enough to keep them entertained.
Greetings again from the darkness. Viewed as a spoof on Big Hollywood, this is pretty darn funny! Of course, we live in the time of political correctness when Eddie Murphy and Tyler Perry and Wayan brothers can make fun of people all day, but let Ben Stiller try, and we are subjected to outrage and protests from multiple self-interest groups. By age seven, most of us can tell the difference between a funny movie or comedian and the President or a Senator saying or doing something tasteless. If you can remember that this is only a movie ... you will probably laugh out loud a few times! Writer/Director/Actor Ben Stiller delivers his best work to date. The screenplay was co-written with the amazingly underrated Justin Theroux and Etan Cohen. Starring as actors in a movie that ends up being a movie about a movie that almost got made, we have Stiller, Robert Downey Jr, Jack Black, Brandon T Jackson (as Alpa Chino ... say it fast) and Jay Baruchel. These guys are all terrific and funny and are joined in support by Nick Nolte, Steve Coogan and Matthew McConaughey.As good as the overall comedic performances are, I must point out the two standouts. Robert Downey Jr is truly amazing as the high profile actor who undergoes a medical procedure to turn himself from an Australian into an African-American. Always a talented actor, Downey reaches an entirely new level with this flawless performance ... effortlessly bounding between a take-off on Russell Crowe to his tribute to Jim Brown. Just great stuff and worth the price of admission. Also a surprising treat is offered up by Tom Cruise, who leaves nothing in his bag of tricks playing an eccentric, plump, foul-mouthed, soulless, big shot studio executive. He does everything from scream obscenities to lay down some very uncomfortable dance steps! A real hoot!!! Sure, the story is a bit lame, but as in many outrageous comedies, the story is merely a backdrop for the jokes ... and there are MANY here. It will probably require a second viewing to pick up all the punchlines and visual effects, but don't miss the early "trailers", especially featuring Christine Taylor (Stiller's real life wife) and one of the most memorable ads that you'll wish you could forget ... complete with jingle by Brandon T Jackson.
Greetings again from the darkness. Fifty years of investigation and research have spawned an endless number of theories about what happened, how it happened, and why it happened, that tragic day in 1963. President John F Kennedy and his lovely wife Jacqueline had captured the hearts of many Americans, and on a trip to Ft Worth and then Dallas, the streets were lined with eager citizens who just wanted to catch a glimpse ... hoping some of that Camelot magic would rub off. Instead, a city and a country, went spinning off into feelings of anger and devastation. Rather than show us what we already know, this is a peek at a few individuals impacted in ways you might not have previously thought about.Vincent Bugliosi made a name for himself as the prosecutor in the Charles Manson Family murder case, and then penning the corresponding book Helter Skelter (subsequently made into a movie). This movie is based on Bugliosi's book "Four Days in November: The Assassination of President John F. Kennedy".The main stories we follow are that of Abraham Zapruder (Paul Giamatti), Lee Harvey Oswald's brother Robert (James Badge Dale), their mother Margueritte (Jacki Weaver), Secret Service Agent Forrest Sorrels (Billy Bob Thornton), local FBI Agent James Hosty (Ron Livingston), and the emergency room doctors and nurses who treated JFK and Oswald (Zac Efron, Colin Hanks, Marcia Gay Harden). You might think that's too many stories for a single movie, and you are probably correct. However, it's fascinating to see the frenetic pace and immediate fallout of just how these people were impacted. Sure, we would like more details and backstory, but that's not the approach this film takes. It just provides a taste of the gut-wrenching decisions Mr. Zapruder has to make while grieving for his beloved President; and the shock of Oswald's brother as reality hits; the stomach-churning delusions of Oswald's mother; the absolute frustration of the CIA and FBI agents knowing their historic failures will be their legacy; and the disparate emotions that enter the operating rooms with Kennedy and Oswald.The film doesn't take any stance on the grassy knoll, CIA involvement, LBJ involvement, or number of shooters. This is not a crime solving story or research into conspiracy theories. No, this is a look at real people in extraordinary situations that no amount of preparation can pacify. There are so many little details revealed ... one of the most powerful occurring at the Lee Harvey Oswald funeral, and another as the JFK casket is loaded onto Air Force One just prior to LBJ taking the oath. So many little things you have probably never before considered.If you were alive at the time of the assassination, you understand the impact. If you have read any of the stacks of books written about that day, you understand what happened and the messy investigation that followed. Bugliosi and director Peter Landesman effectively mix news reels from the day with dramatizations of the fallout, and the actors do a tremendous job of showing just how personal this affected those at the time. A different perspective brings with it interesting discussion ... and a big thanks if your mother is nothing like Oswald's!
Greetings again from the darkness. I went to this movie for one reason: Diablo Cody. Her Juno script was brilliant, and captured the real world of teen and family angst. Major disappointment here as the script was apparently written while Juno was chugging OJ.Sure, there are some nice moments that prevent this from being a total throwaway teen slasher, but certainly not enough to elevate it to the class of Carrie.Casting white hot celebrity of the moment, Megan Fox, was a wise move. That will be reason enough for some teenage boys to buy a ticket. Being much older and wiser, I found Amanda Seyfriend's character had much more potential and interest. Again, the letdown ... she really has very little to do except look confused, frightened, disgusted. Oh yes, and to plant one big wet kiss on Megan. Though it serves no real purpose to the film, it helped gather some necessary publicity.Adam Brody has a small, yet vital role, as the short-cut taking lead singer of an indie band looking to make a name for themselves. Kind of funny when you think about it, but not handled especially well.The last thing that bugs me about this is that neither Megan Fox nor Amanda Seyfried look like high school students - always a pet peeve of mine in a film about high schoolers. Major disappointment from Ms. Cody, who hopefully will expend a bit more time and effort on her next script.
Greetings again from the darkness. If you have seen Sam Peckinpah's classic 1971 original with Dustin Hoffman and Susan George, it is impossible to watch this remake without comparing the two films. Because of that, these comments will include some comparative notes. After all, it's been 40 years and most people watching this new version have never seen the original.Director Rod Lurie follows the Peckinpah version pretty closely with the obvious changes being a move from the English countryside to the deep south (Mississippi), and the main characters are now a screenwriter and actress instead of mathematical whiz and ... well, whatever Susan George's character was in the original. Those are the obvious changes, but not the most significant. I really missed the subtlety and psychological trickery delivered by Peckinpah, especially in the relationship between David and Amy.Lurie chooses to take advantage of the physical screen presence of Alexander Skarsgard (True Blood) as Charlie, the local stud and Amy's ex. Charlie's past exploits on the football field and his creepy leadership skills with his posse of thugs, provide the yin of physical strength to the yang of David's intelligence. It's interesting to note that this version spells out Sun-Tzu's description of "straw dogs" while Peckinpah left his audience to fend for themselves. But, of course, what this boils down to is just how far can a civilized person be pushed ... and how far is the bully willing to go? James Woods is a welcome and terrifying addition to the new version. Since it is based in the small town south, high school football must play a role. Woods is the former high school coach who is now a violent drunk, and still leader of his former players. He is a sadistic type who picks on Jeremy Niles (Dominic Purcell), the slow-witted brother of Daniel (Walton Goggins) and constantly accuses him of inappropriate behavior with his 15 year old cheerleader daughter.James Marsden (Hairspray) and Kate Bosworth (Remember the Titans) play David and Amy. They come back to Amy's childhood home so she can rest and David can have some peace and quiet while writing his screenplay on the Battle of Stalingrad. Well, we couldn't really have him writing a rom-com, could we? From Day One, the peace and quiet is clearly missing and Lynyrd Skynyrd wins out over Bach in the battle of radio volume. Tension builds and David is tested daily over what it means to be a man ... tested by the local hicks and doubted by his lovely wife.Things turn from bad to worse when the locals invite David to go hunting with them. What happens with Charlie and Amy during this time changes everything. This sequence was the key to the controversy of the original and what caused it to be banned in many cities and countries. Lurie chooses to handle it in a very straightforward manner - plus, times and mores have changed quite a bit in the last 40 years.For me, the Peckinpah original remains a classic film with brilliant psychological undertones which left me feeling very uncomfortable and questioning what I might do in this situation. Lurie's new version offered little of that but does work fine as a straightforward suspenseful thriller.
Greetings again from the darkness. Based on the true story of the 25 year search for the Zodiac killer ... a serial killer who's multiple homicide's (somewhere between 13-51) remain unsolved. The source material for the film is the book "Zodiac Unmasked" by Robert Graysmith portrayed by Jake Gyllenhaal.Despite common knowledge that the case remains unsolved, director David Fincher ("Fight Club", "Seven") creates a good deal of suspense and captures the frustration of those who spent years chasing this monster. The lead detectives are played by Anthony Edwards and Mark Ruffalo. Other key law enforcement officials are played by Donal Logue, Elias Koteas and Dermot Mulroney. Brian Cox and Philip Baker Hall have key support roles and the great Chloe Sevigny is cast as Gyllenhaal's wife. I must mention the single scene featuring Clea Duvall as an inmate with some insight. Always nice to see her work. In a very interesting selection, the main suspect (Arthur Lee Allen) is played by John Carroll Lynch, the gentle husband in "Fargo".The film has a couple of confusing moments or loose ends ... such as the entire sequence when Gyllenhaal interviews the former movie theatre manager. However, I would compare the film to "All The President's Men" in its structure of presenting the investigation of the mystery. Robert Downey, Jr. is once again remarkable, this time as the lead San Francisco Chronicle reporter who is threatened by Zodiac. Downey's subsequent breakdown is realistic and painful.Although not much humor exists in the film, I couldn't help but chuckle as Gyllenhaal and Ruffalo are trading ideas in a late night café. You couldn't find two actors with bigger puppy dog eyes than these two! Still, it doesn't ruin the intensity and Fincher does a great job at capturing the desperation of Ruffalo and Gyllenhaal throughout the film ... as each of their lives begin to crumble.Justice can be a very complicated manner, but I believe Graysmith feels that his final connection with the main suspect was all he needed to complete his story and put his mind at ease. The man was not locked up, but the mystery was now unlocked. For those who enjoy the investigative side of crime, this one is definitely worth seeing. Two interesting notes ... the soundtrack contains an almost overwhelming number of period songs, and don't miss the cameo from Ione Skye, who's father Donovan's "Hurdy Gurdy Man" has a key role on the soundtrack.
Greetings again from the darkness. According to director Steven Soderbergh, this is his farewell to film. He is taking his eye and camera and will concentrate on specialty projects ... at least until he figures out that movie directors make more money (yes, I'm skeptical). This one has been "in the works" for years and is based on Scott Thorson's autobiography.If you don't recognize the name Scott Thorson, you surely recognize his opponent in his 1982 palimony suit ... Liberace. The story recounts how a 17 year old Scott fell under the spell of Mr Showmanship, and didn't leave until 1982. To understand what occurred during those years requires an understanding of the times. The gay culture had not worked its way into mainstream America. Despite his over-the-top flamboyance (on and off stage), Liberace's fans refused to believe he was gay ... or more accurately, refused to even entertain the idea.Although their actual ages are way out of whack for the story, Matt Damon and Michael Douglas are both exceptional as Scott and Liberace, respectively. Much of this story focuses on Scott, but Douglas' performance is what makes this work. He walks the fine line between predator and protector, lover and louse. When he tells a young Scott that he wants to be his "Brother, Father, Lover, Friend", we are nauseated as viewers, while Scott is captivated.Supporting work comes from Dan Akyroyd as Seymour Heller, Liberace's fixer and handler; an exceptional Rob Lowe as plastic surgeon Dr. Startz; Scott Bakula as one of Scott's first and the one who introduces him to LL; Paul Reiser; Nicky Katt; and Debbie Reynolds ... yes THAT Debbie Reynolds ... who plays Liberace's controlling and creepy mother.Scott Thorson is really not a very interesting character, though there is no doubt that he and Liberace were exceptionally close for almost six years. The movies have shown us many "kept" women over the years, so it's a twist to see a studly young man in the role. The slow spiral into drug addiction and paranoia is not fun to watch, and luckily the movie ends with Liberace's passing due to complications from AIDS. Since then, Mr. Thorson testified against gangster Eddie Nash in the Wonderland murders, and was placed in the Federal Witness Protection program. Of course, his taste of fame would not allow him to live a quiet life and he has since been shot and arrested ... even giving interviews from the Reno jail just one month before the premiere of this movie.Definitely worth watching thanks to the Michael Douglas performance, but also as a reminder of just how much innocence society has lost in the last thirty years. Soderbergh says that no studio would distribute the film because it was "too gay". Maybe we haven't progressed so much after all. Luckily HBO picked it up, though that prevents Douglas from being an Oscar contender. Brace yourself for the "creep factor". Liberace even tried to legally adopt Scott ... a move that eclipses the wildness of even his costumes, pianos and cars.
Greetings again from the darkness. Not that I am hoping for marital strife, but I like it when Steven Spielberg wants to get out of the house. This year he has delivered awards contender "War Horse" and this crowd pleasing motion-capture animation film (also) for the whole family. If you are unfamiliar with Tintin, it is a long-running, extremely popular European comic series by Herge', who passed away in 1983.Tintin (voiced by Jamie Bell) is an investigative newspaper reporter who looks 12, but clearly isn't. He lives on his own, travels the world and is treated like an adult by those with whom he crosses paths. There is an early scene where Tintin is sitting for a local artist and the resulting portrait is the exact simple look of the comic series. Tintin has a trusty sidekick ... his genius little dog, Snowy. Together they go on adventures that Indiana Jones can only dream about! This particular story focuses on the hunt for the lost Haddock family treasure. Tintin literally stumbles into the drunken sea Captain Haddock (Andy Serkis) who is more concerned with his next swig of whiskey than the the fact that he has been kidnapped by the bad guy Rackham/Sakharine (Daniel Craig). This bad guy has unlocked the mystery location of all the clues to the lost treasure and needs Captain Haddock for the final step. Unfortunately for him, Tintin and Snowy get in the way and try their darndest to stop him.The action sequences are amongst the most exciting and thrill-packed that you will ever see. They look like "Jonny Quest" on steroids. The story is quite convoluted and complicated and small kids will be totally lost on exactly WHY the characters do what they do. But it won't much matter, because the visuals of each scene are captivating. There are even a couple of Interpol agents on the trail ... Thompson and Thomson (voiced by Simon Pegg and Nick Frost, respectively).Spielberg has always done nice work when he can go after a kid's imagination - even big kids like me. The look of this movie is pretty amazing, especially when compared to the 2004 "The Polar Express". If you doubt how far technology has come, look at these two side by side. Herge' creation is given script work here by Steven Moffatt, Edgar Wright and Joe Cornish. The great John Williams provides the score. This is one you can bring the kids to and all will enjoy.
Greetings again from the darkness. It's quite clear I am not the target audience for Suzanne Collins' literary trilogy or the corresponding movies that are packing in the teenagers and young adults. Still, I'll admit to enjoying the first movie ... and being even a bit more impressed by this second entry. Having a female heroine that is young, strong, smart, loyal, and emotionally grounded is not just unusual, but also quite a welcome change of pace.Any uproar over missing/adapted elements from the source books can be chalked up to the young readers who haven't yet come to understand that a 2 hour movie cannot possibly relay all the details and imagination held within the written page. In fact, co-screenwriters Simon Beaufoy (Slumdog Millionaire) and Michael deBrauyn (aka Michael Arndt of Toy Story 3 fame) do an excellent job of balancing the numerous elements contained within the story: a fascist government, the off-kilter romances, family bonds, and the early stages of a revolution/uprising. This sequel features a new and much better suited director in Francis Lawrence, known for I Am Legend.What really makes this material click on screen is the performance of Jennifer Lawrence as Katniss. Her Mockingjay becomes the symbol of hope for the many districts intimidated by the iron fist rule of the President, played by the menacing Donald Sutherland. Ms. Lawrence is an absurdly talented actress and is one of the rare few who can convey a multitude of emotions through facial expressions alone. Despite her prickly personality, the audience connects with her in a most positive manner.In addition to Ms. Lawrence and Mr. Sutherland, returning to the fold are Josh Hutcherson as Peeta (still lacking even an ounce of screen presence), Woody Harrelson as Haymitch (giving a bit more effort this time around), Lenny Kravitz as Cinna, Paula Malcomson as Katniss' mother (seen recently as Abby in "Ray Donovan"), Willow Shields as Prim, Liam Hemsworth as Gale (his most exciting scene is washing his hands), and of course the instant electricity and energy provided by Elizabeth Banks as Effie and Stanley Tucci as Caesar - two of the most colorful characters this side of 1970's era Elton John.New to this chapter are two of the finest actors working today: Philip Seymour Hoffman as game designer Plutarch Heavensbee, and Jeffrey Wright as "Volts" from the "nuts and volts" duo with Amanda Plummer. Jena Malone tries, but is miscast as Johanna, and Sam Claflin has a couple of worthy moments as Finnick. Two of the best additions are the frightening killer baboons and the Black Swan-style wedding dress. Both make eye-opening entries.There is much to like about this series thus far, but of course, one must accept it for the genre it represents. And fair warning - see the two Hunger Games movies in order ... or don't bother. Regardless of your take on this franchise - may the odds be ever in your favor.
Greetings again from the darkness. One must always walk in to historical dramatizations with breath held. Will it be some Hollywood, polished (or tarnished) view of the truth or will it be a straightforward account of a story that is strong enough to carry the load? Director Michael Apted (the terrific "7 Up" series) and writer Steven Knight ("Dirty Pretty Things") find a middle ground as they present a tough topic with an entertaining and touching version of a man whom history has been unable to reach a conclusion.William Wilberforce was one of the more vocal and hard-lobbying social reformers in the late eighteenth century as the British empire unknowingly began its slow decline in power. His friendship with Willima Pitt, who became the youngest Prime Minister in history, is at the heart of the film and provides its best scenes. Wilberforce (Ioan Gruffudd) and Pitt (a wonderful performance from Benedict Cumberbatch), along with Thomas Clarkson (Rufus Sewell) and Lord Charles Fox (stately Michael Gambon) take on a decades long battle with Parliament for the abolishing of slave ships. Their knowledge is brought to light by the memoirs of former slave turned activist Oloudagh Equiano (played well by musician Youssou N'Dour). The greedy slave owners of Parliament are led in argument by the smirky and arrogant Cirian Hinds and Toby Jones.There is more than a touch of holier than thou in the portrayal of Wilberforce. The argument has long been should he have argued as much for the poverty in his home country as he did for slaves and animal rights. Still the passion of his mission cannot be questioned.The film does a good job of capturing the era, although Wilberforce's wife, Barbara (played by Romola Garai) seems a bit blustery for the period. Must also mention the performance of Albert Finney as John Newton, the former slave ship captain, turned Reverend and redemption-seeker, who also penned the beautiful song from which the film takes its title. Finney is not on screen much, but he is somehow powerful in his broken down state.As a history lesson, it might be a bit slick, but there is plenty of substance for any World History class and the material is presented in a manner that all ages can enjoy and be stirred to thought. Also, don't miss the goose-bump inducing version of the song over the credits as performed by the Royal Irish Pipes. Wow!
Greetings again from the darkness. No question that Will Smith is a movie star and can pull off a super hero ... even an apathetic, alcoholic, amnesiac-stricken super hero. Here he is very physical while at the same time using facial expressions to try and get in touch with his more human side.This mess goes wrong pretty quickly. The special effects are overboard and director Peter Berg ("Very Bad Things", "The Kingdom") way over directs ... especially with the 360 degree facial close-ups. All the eye gazing between Will Smith and Charlize Theron take away any mystery in what the big plot twist might be. Even the score is weak. Is it too much to ask for a decent theme song for a super hero? This one sounds like it is straight out of a John Ford movie, or maybe "Wagon Train".Jason Bateman has almost as much time as Will Smith but really isn't able to bring much to a nothing role. Smith is the only one who shows any depth as his is the only character with more than one dimension. The cartoonish special effects just don't work and the great little idea of the rehabbing super hero just falls flat. This one has the feel of MULTIPLE edits and cuts with the result of one that just isn't much fun. Go see "Indy" or "Iron Man" again as you wait for "The Dark Knight".
Greetings again from the darkness. Admittedly, I am one of those who take movies very seriously. Good movies make me happy (even the sad ones), and bad movies make me sulk. Every now and then, one comes along that I find myself enjoying despite the warning buzzers blasting in my film snob brain. Such is the latest from director Ruben Fleisher (who also directed the entertaining Zombieland)."Inspired by true events" should always be interpreted as a disclaimer that the movie will play fast and loose with history and the details of the story. Sean Penn plays Mickey Cohen, a renowned Los Angeles gangster from the late 40's. Due to widespread police corruption, Police Chief Parker (Nick Nolte) authorized an "off the books" team to take down mob operations (gambling, prostitution, etc). This much was documented in Paul Lieberman's book. How this story is presented by Fleisher and screenwriter Will Beall (signed on for the Justice League movie) has more in common with a comic book than actual history.The movie is extremely beautiful to look at. It's slick and stylish with a glamorous color palette, and the production design is top notch - capturing the look and feel of a booming Los Angeles. If you are expecting the next "L.A. Confidential" or even "The Untouchables", you will be disappointed. It's more in line with "Dick Tracy", "Scarface", and "Hoffa". In other words ... it looks great and the action, characters and dialogue are all way over the top.The cast is superb, but most are underutilized. Josh Brolin is the tough leader of the squad that features Ryan Gosling (the token cool womanizer), Robert Patrick (the token dead-eye gunslinger), Anthony Mackie (the innercity, knife-wielding token black cop), Giovanni Ribisi (the token geeky electronics expert), and Michael Pena (the rookie and token Hispanic cop). Unfortunately, my crude descriptions are just about as in-depth as the movie goes with any of them. In fact, Yvette Tucker playing Carmen Miranda, gets almost as much screen time as any of these cops as she sings "Chica Chica Boom Chic".The violence is cartoonish in its fervor. The aim of these gangsters is among the worst in movie history, and that's quite an accomplishment. Using Tommy Guns and pistols, my estimate is that one in every 167 shots actually hits an intended target. Many elaborate set pieces are destroyed in the process. The exception is Robert Patrick's character, who is actually featured in a detective serial. He never misses ... even after being wounded. Penn plays Cohen as a ruthless mob boss, unwilling to accept any failure from his crew. And you know what that means. No pink slips here ... just ugly death via power drill, burning elevator or classic car tug-of-war.An interesting note is the presence of three actors from recent cult TV shows. Holt McCallany (Lights Out), Mireille Enos (The Killing) and Troy Garity (Boss) all have key roles in the film, as does Jon Polito, whose face and voice make him a must-cast in any gangster film.If you are able to turn off the logical and reasoning part of your brain ... just sit back and enjoy Emma Stone smoking a cig while wearing a red evening gown, an understated Ryan Gosling with an odd speech pattern, Sean Penn wearing a prosthetic nose and spewing hilarious bad guy lines, and the creepy feeling that Josh Brolin is just 25 years away from looking and sounding exactly like Nick Nolte ... then hopefully you can take this one for what it is - a guilty pleasure. www.MovieReviewsFromTheDark.wordpress.com
There are a few truly awe-inspiring moments in movie history. One of the most memorable occurs when Dorothy steps out of her Black & White farm house and into the full color wonderland of Oz. Not far behind is our first glimpse of the dinosaurs in Jurassic Park. Director Steven Spielberg brilliantly focused on the stunned reactions of Dr. Alan Grant (Sam Neill) and Dr. Ellie Attler (Laura Dern). We smiled because we knew their reactions mirrored ours! Now, twenty years later, the film has been re-released with a very effective 3D re-mastering.The movie has its place in Hollywood history for its revolutionary use of George Lucas' ILM CGI and the animatronics and visual effects under the supervision of Ray Winston. This was no ordinary science fiction special-effects movie. It was a very interesting, entertaining, thrilling story that brought to life the plastic dinosaur toys of kids and dinosaur dreams of curious adults. This was light years from the Ray Harryhausen stop-action dinosaurs we had seen before. The dinosaurs in Jurassic Park had back-stories, childhoods, ferocious roars and a realistic look that tied right into our childhood fantasies.Never-before-seen special effects would be enough to set this one apart, but it's the story and characters that draw us in and elevate the movie to classic status. John Hammond is a very likable, little old rich man played by Sir Richard Attenborough. In fact, Attenborough is genuinely such a nice guy, he was cast as Kris Kringle in the 1994 re-make of Miracle on 34th Street. He is also an Oscar winning director for Gandhi (1982) and ironically beat out Spielberg (E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial) that year. Attenborough also directed A Bridge Too Far (1973), A Chorus Line (1985) and Chaplin (1992); plus, one of my favorite hidden gems: Magic (1978). Unfortunately, Attenborough, now almost 90 years old, has recently been moved into hospice for health reasons.John Hammond and his team of scientists have taken "dino DNA" and brought life to dinosaurs, previously 65 million years extinct. Hammonds' instincts as a showman lead him to develop a kind of amusement park where people can come and see his dinosaur creations in a natural habitat. Facing a lawsuit  what could go wrong??  his investors bring in a team of specialists to inspect the park. Dr. Grant, Dr. Attler and Dr. Ian Malcolm (Jeff Goldblum) take the tour with Hammond's grandchildren (Joseph Mazzello and Ariana Richards) and a bean counter played by Martin Ferrero. Of course, things go terribly wrong thanks to a sub-plot involving the park's computer guru played by Wayne Knight (Newman from "Seinfeld"). Don't miss the photo of J Robert Oppenheimer (the atomic bomb creator) on Nedry's computer monitor. Samuel L Jackson has a classic line of dialogue, but also seems to be prepping for his role in Deep Blue Sea (1999). The other key player is the park's game warden played terrifically by the late Bob Peck  he mutters the "clever girl" line.Real life Paleontoligist Jack Horner worked as an adviser on the film and was the inspiration for the Dr. Grant character. It's also interesting to note that there was quite a bidding war for the rights  even before writer Michael Crichton had finished the manuscript. When Spielberg won the rights, he hired Crichton to write the screenplay, and David Koepp was brought in for the final version. Crichton is also known for Westworld (1973), Twister (1996) and The Andromeda Strain (1971). Mr. Koepp is known for his screenplays that include Mission Impossible (1996), Panic Room (2002) and Spider-Man (2002). And of course, the majestic score was composed by the great John Williams, a frequent Spielberg collaborator. Jurassic Park was nominated for and won three Oscars: Best Sound Effects Editing, Best Visual Effects and Best Sound. Many believe Jurassic Park should have nominated for the Best Picture, but I doubt Mr. Spielberg much cares. See, he released another movie that same year  Schindler's List did win the Best Picture Oscar. Many ask about the child actors from Jurassic Park. Tim was played by Joseph Mazzello, who was most recently seen in TV's "Justified", as the snake-charming traveling preacher. Mr. Mazzello has also appeared in The Social Network, and the mini-series "The Pacific". Lexi was played by Ariana Richards and she won the role based on her amazing ability to show and express fear  and her believability as a teenage hacker. Ms. Richards has focused more on her work as an artist, but does act periodically.Jurassic Park is definitely one to experience on the biggest screen possible with the clearest sound possible. This 3D re-mastering is worth the price of admission and I enjoyed seeing the look of awe in the eyes of a few youngsters in the theatre. No need to wait for Jurassic Park 4, which is scheduled for release in 2014  go experience the original in its full big screen glory!
Greetings again from the darkness. Based on a true story and the book by George Crile, we get a glimpse at the covert war instigated by Congressman Charlie Wilson (from Texas) after the Russian invasion of Afghanistan around 1980. Director Mike Nichols has a few gems on his resume, including "The Graduate", "Carnal Knowledge" and "Silkwood". Sadly, his most recent film prior to this was the tasteless and utter garbage known as "Closer". Mr. Nichols can be much more proud of this one.Tom Hanks again shows why he is one of the most remarkable leading men in the history of Hollywood. He once again transforms himself, physically and personality-wise to become the former Congressman. His Texas accent is far superior to Ms. Roberts', who never really comes close to capturing the essence of a wealthy Texas lady sophisticate. Hanks doesn't shy away from the infamous character flaws of Wilson and truly excels in those awkward moments when dealing with the President of Pakistan.The absolute best scenes in the film are those with both Hanks and the great Philip Seymour Hoffman. These two go at each other like brothers and the wit is flying fast and furiously! These are the best scenes and the best dialogue and are the main reason the film is so darn entertaining. Hoffman plays like a caged animal dropped in the middle of society ... he only knows one way to act and that is to punch you in the nose with his intellect and quips.Two usually outstanding performers are given little to do. Amy Adams ("Junebug" and "Enchanted" follows Hanks around like a puppy dog. Emily Blunt "Devil Wears Prada" seems to be in the film for only one reason ... to strip down to her skivvies and show off her tightly honed legs and torso. Surely the final cut is missing a scene between Hanks and Blunt that makes their encounter plausible. A major flaw from an experienced filmmaker like Nichols.The core story really is fascinating at we see the maneuvering that goes on between politicians as they negotiate for votes. As great as our system is, we should periodically be reminded that the votes aren't cast by what is right and wrong, but moreso according to who cut what deals behind closed doors. There are a few buffoons on display here including the US diplomat stationed in Pakistan and the committee chairman played pretty well by the long lost Ned Beatty.The best part about the film is the true story it is based upon. Knowing that a few cared enough about the topic to make a difference is thought-provoking and fascinating. This film is entertaining enough for the masses, but provides a few stellar lines that will probably blow by those too impressed with the pomposity of Ms. Roberts and her diamonds and hair.
Greetings again from the darkness. Who in the world thought this would be the right time to release this film? Between holiday shopping and the new release schedule chock full of Oscar bait, dropping this hard-edged little film into theatres was box office suicide. And what a shame that is because there is definitely an audience for this exceedingly well acted snapshot of 2008 Rust Belt misery.The steel mill town of Braddock, Pennsylvania was once thriving, but is now on life support ... just like the father of Rodney and Russell Baze. Casey Affleck plays Rodney, the brother who viewed enlisting in the Army as his way out of Braddock. When we meet him, he is about to leave for his 4th tour in the Iraq war. Rusell (Christian Bale) is the more grounded, trying to do right brother. Russell dutifully works in the mill while trying to make a life with his girlfriend (Zoe Saldana).Since life never hands folks in these towns a break, Russell ends up in prison, Rodney's fourth tour leaves him scarred physically and emotionally, the dad dies, the girlfriend bolts, and the sleazy drug and crime world congregate right on top of the brothers' heads. Rodney goes deeper into the ugly world of bare-knuckle fighting world in an attempt to pay off his gambling debt to a local crime head played by Willem Dafoe (in yet another reptilian role). If you think cockfighting is merciless, the bare-knuckle fights held in backwoods Appalachian Mountains make that look like child's play ... and no tamales! The film is at its best when the nastiest of all these characters is on screen. Woody Harrelson plays Harlan DeGroat, the soulless crime and drug lord of the area, who also runs (and fixes) these brutal fights. Harrelson is at his most menacing here, and even has Dafoe's character a bit jumpy. Harlan DeGroat has no redeeming values, and admits to having "a problem with everybody".The story itself is quite predictable, but Bale, Affleck and Harrelson keep us glued to the screen. Zoe Saldana, Forest Whitaker and Dafoe have moments, but mostly their characters are underwritten here. Sam Shepard adds immediate blue collar royalty as the uncle of the Baze boys. Director Scott Cooper (Crazy Heart) re-wrote Brad Ingelsby's script, and it suffers from leaving us wanting more in regards to background and makeup of these characters. Still, the strong performances keep us engaged and make this grimy, hopeless world something we can't turn away from.
Greetings again from the darkness. Co-writer and director Zal Batmanglij re-teams with his Sound of My Voice co-writer and actress Brit Marling (Another Earth) to deliver another cult-based story. This time they focus on big, bad corporations and the eco-terrorists who target them.Ms. Marling's character is hired by Patricia Clarkson's Security Company that specializes in protecting big corporations from the terrorist attacks and acts of revenge that these cults of anarchists perpetuate. Marling goes undercover to learn the secrets of The East, one of the particularly aggressive cult-like groups. The leader of The East is played by Alexander Skarsgard, who works with an overly-zealous Ellen Page and former med student Toby Kebbell.Are these idealists, anarchists, eco-terrorists or eco-activists? Is their "eye for an eye" philosophy a form of retribution or is it meant to draw attention so that a wrong can be righted? Are there extremes to which they won't go? This group doesn't seem united in their answers to these questions, though their deep woods hangout draws comparisons to Charles Manson's compound.As Marling becomes part of the group, she participates in the "jams", which are the actual strikes against the companies and those in charge. Specifically, they give a pharmaceutical giant a taste of their own medicine ... getting the desired results, which they watch online. Of course, there is always the risk of prison and/or injury and things don't always go according to plan.The cast is pretty talented and also includes Jason Ritter, Shiloh Fernandez and Julia Ormond. The story will remind a bit of Sound of My Voice, and also Martha Marcy May Marlene. In other words, the attraction of the cult and commitment to cause. The set-up to the story is very well done, and it's no real surprise as opposing ideals and conflicts creep into a group of idealists. Is violence necessary or are there more effective methods to make one's protest heard? While the movie lacks the edge of the best indies, it still makes for good movie discussion ... and crosses into real life beliefs and, personal and political stances.
Greetings again from the darkness. Max Brooks' hugely successful novel was put through the proverbial wringer on it's road to the big screen. Numerous script re-writes, many scenes re-shot, a re-worked third act, an all new ending, and a 6 month delay in release date. The final product is something that fans of TV's "The Walking Dead" will probably appreciate and many others will find it entertaining enough.Brad Pitt gives an earnest effort as a former United Nations investigator who now enjoys his new role as house-husband. In fact, director Marc Foster (Quantum of Solace, Monster's Ball) zaps us with the first zombie action just after Pitt serves up pancakes to his two daughters and wife Karin (Mireille Enos, "The Killing"). It turns out Pitt is more than just an expert at flapjacks. His expertise is needed in this global zombie crisis brought on by a virus ...or bacteria, that started in India ... or Israel ... or Asia. See, those details don't really matter because the infection has spread to every corner of the globe.I actually enjoyed Pitt more in the "quiet" moments than in the big CGI action sequences. He is quite believable as a doting husband and father, less so as the world's savior. Still, the issues with this movie are not on Mr. Pitt. Four writers (in addition to the novelist) rarely deliver a coherent script' however, since it's an apocalyptic zombie thriller, they almost get away with it! If you haven't visited the zombie genre in a few decades, be prepared ... these aren't the sluggish zombies made famous by George Romero. Instead, these are blazingly fast and able to leap tall buildings, flying helicopters ... and the great wall of Jerusalem. Yes, Jerusalem. In one of the more unusual movie features, this one plays like "Where in the World is Carmen Sandiego?". Pitt globe trots more than James Bond or Jason Bourne.For many, the zombie sequences and global apocalyptic theme will provide sufficient cinematic entertainment. For the rest of us, it's fine, but will forgotten as quickly as I am Legend.
Greetings again from the darkness. I have often defined an entertainer as one who delivers what the audience wants, while an artist creates what he must. Writer/director Michael Haneke strikes me as a true artist in cinema. And an exceptional one at that. Known for such unusual films as The White Ribbon, Cache', and the original Funny Games (1997), Haneke often has a way of showing us things about ourselves that we prefer not to see.Amour means love, and this film could easily have been titled Love and Misery, as strong and indescribable feelings mount when a life partner begins the inevitable slide downhill ... a trip which often starts with something as bland as a few moments of blankness at the breakfast table.Georges (Jean-Louis Trintignant, A Man and A Woman) and Anne (Emmanuelle Riva, Hiroshima Mon Amour) somehow draw our eye as they sit in the audience as seen from the stage of a soon-to-begin piano concerto. It's a thought provoking shot when paired with the familiar quip "All the world's a stage ...". Next we see this octogenarian couple chatting over breakfast, clearly comfortable with each other in the manner that only two people who have shared decades together can become.A trip to the hospital confirms Anne has had a stroke. And then another. The rest of the film revolves around Georges keeping his promise to Anne that she won't be put back into the hospital. It's a real life situation that so many face, yet the answers remain cloudy. So Georges proceeds to become caregiver to the increasingly incapacitated Anne. First wheelchair bound with paralysis on one side. Next she's learning to operate a motorized chair. Then it's speech therapy. Finally, she' bedridden and devolving into someone who can't express simple emotions. No, this is not typical Hollywood entertainment. This is life's realities through the expressive acting of two of France's best.It would be easy to say not much happens in the two hour running, but in fact, it is filled with the daily moments that make up life. The moments become an obstacle course when we must assist a loved one in the performance, or if we are the one being assisted. Nurses who may or may not be caring, friends who are struck helpless, and even family (played here by Isabelle Huppert, The Piano Teacher) who feel the responsibility to help, but are caught in the responsibilities of everyday life.Death is a common occurrence in movies. Dying is actually quite rare. Haneke doesn't shy away from any aspect of this sorrowful and difficult journey. He forces us to consider the multiple sides of so many questions, and he certainly feels no obligation to provide us with simple solutions or happy endings. Georges walls off society from doing "what is best" for his wife. He prefers to honor her wishes.These are two extraordinary performances from two of France's all-time best actors. Ms. Riva was rewarded with an Oscar nomination and Mr. Trintignant was just as deserving. Mr. Haneke has been nominated as Best Director and the film is up for both Best Foreign Film and Best Picture. Don't mistake any of that recognition as a sign that this is a mainstream movie. It's exquisite filmmaking, but many will find it difficult or impossible to watch. You best be ready to analyze death versus dying.
Greetings again from the darkness. The real story of Steven Russell is downright fascinating. He is the ultimate con man and has been nicknamed "King Con". A master of reading people, gaining trust and manipulating many systems, Russell was proved to have stolen from a major food service corporation and a major healthcare organization. Stolen, as in hundreds of thousands of dollars. The smaller cons are too numerous to count. And don't forget his string of jail/prison escapes! Glenn Ficarra and John Regua (the writing team behind Bad Santa) co-direct this story based on Steve McVicer's book on Russell. Somehow they have delivered a hokey, boring film despite the man at the center of the story. Luckily for them, Jim Carrey drums up a terrific performance as Russell and provides relief from the amateurish script and direction.The role of Phillip Morris is tackled by Ewan McGregor in a manner we have not previously seen from him. His effeminate naivety offers a nice contrast to the domineering Russell/Carrey. The support work is minimal but provided by the very capable Rodrigo Santoro and the very talented, but totally wasted here, Leslie Mann.The film gives us the beginning of the fall for Russell. His parents tell him he was adopted and he responds by tracking down his birth mother. He pretty much falls apart after that meeting and commences with his endless stream of cons. Is he a happily married man or is he gay? Is he a brilliant strategist or an embezzler? His life changes during one of his trips to jail. He meets Phillip Morris. Their life together is full of excess, thanks to Russell's latest scam. As always, the con is exposed and Russell spends his entire life alternating between being on the lam or in jail.I found the film inferior to "Catch Me if You Can", a better (not great) film about another real life con man, Frank Abignale. The cat and mouse chases of that film held my interest. This film has little drama despite the obvious talents of this off-center man. My guess is that in the hands of better filmmakers, this could have been a much improved film.Apparently, Russell's biggest con was played on himself. He never really figured out who he is. He is now serving a life sentence in near-solitary confinement in prison. Mr. McVicker, the book's author, has stated two very telling observations. First, he suspects Phillip Morris was not quite as innocent as he would have us believe. Second, his description of Russell as a man "who makes you want to believe" tells you all you need know about this ultimate con man.
Greetings again from the darkness. Quentin Tarantino and the Coen Brothers are whom I depend to always deliver something never previously seen on screen. Creativity of itself is not sufficient ... but when combined with a love and mastery of film-making, more often than not we are treated to something special. QT certainly delivers that with the Basterds.I found Chapter One (of Five) to be a mini-spaghetti western film short replete with perfect music, anticipation, stare downs, word play, a shoot-out and ultimate escape. Christoph Waltz immediately seizes his role as Col Landa and never lets go. He envisions himself, not as the "Jew Hunter" (a moniker he relishes, nonetheless) but rather as a super sleuth in line with Sherlock Holmes (hence the pipe!).Chapter Two introduces us to the titular Basterds led by Lt Aldo Raine with Brad Pitt as the hillbilly ring leader of the Dirty Dozen-type band of Nah-Zee killers. Pitt's exaggerated jaw and outlandish accent, coupled with his QT-penned dialogue, makes for one frightening cartoon character on a singular mission. And at the same time, it is a real hoot! The multiple story lines begin to intermingle in a fabulously intricate tavern scene. The dialgoue and approach to this remind a bit of Reservoir Dogs, but with the subtle facial gestures and multi-lingual word play, it goes to a whole different level. While many thought this scene dragged, I was fascinated.The finale in the Cinema Paradiso (not really, but it was the first thing I thought of) is well paced and delivers a fabulous ending of dramatic violent intimacy in the projector room and flamboyant special effects in the main theatre. Let's just say Lincoln's last night at the theatre ended better than Hitler's and Goebbel's.So many movie references in the 2 and a half hours that you can't help but tip your cap to Mr. Tarantino. For us movie lovers, he really is our leader. He is living out our fantasy and delivering just often enough to keep us fed. As an example, the lead up to the Cinderella scene is just pure torture as QT works in his foot fetish. Having previously mentioned the work of Pitt and the fantastic turn by Christoph Waltz, I must also say that Melanie Laurent in her red dress, helped capture the feel of 40's and 50's femme fatales. She was absolutely perfect.While this one is not quite at the level of Pulp Fiction, it is purely a cinematic marvel. Though not the most accurate of history lessons, there is still a bit of message that sneaks in. But more importantly, the message of cinematic adoration can't be missed. Bravo Mr. Tarantino. And thank you again.
Greetings again from the darkness. Movies about "the con" have had many different looks over the years: the suave coolness of Oceans 11, David Mamet's twisted perspective in House of Games, the tongue-in-cheek teamwork of Redford and Newman in The Sting, the demented mother-son approach in The Grifters, and of course, the slapstick style of Steve Martin in Dirty Rotten Scoundrels. All of these committed to one style and made it work. The latest from the writing/directing team of Glenn Ficarra and John Requa (I Love You Phillip Morris, Crazy Stupid Love) can't seem to decide if they want the audience in on the joke, or if they rather the audience be the butt of the joke.Will Smith plays Nicky, a third generation con man who is also a very conservative entrepreneur. He runs his cons as a business and prides himself on never taking unnecessary risks, ensuring the odds are in his favor. His professional curiosity lands him in an awkward situation with Jess, played by Margot Robbie (The Wolf of Wall Street), who clumsily mistakes Nicky for an easy mark. Instead, he agrees to mentor her during Super Bowl week in New Orleans. This sequence is the best and most entertaining part of the film.The second half of the film complicates things with the do they or don't they love story between Nicky and Jess, as well as a few other messy personal relationships. The fun here lies with the con, not the love story, and that's where the focus should stay. In fact, the most interesting characters aren't Nicky and Jess, but rather a riotous Adrian Martinez (as Nicky's computer whiz assistant), Rodrigo Santoro (as a racing team owner trying to cheat the competition), Gerald McRaney (a hoot as Santoro's crusty old henchman), Robert Taylor (TV's "Longmire") as one of Santoro's competitors, and BD Wong as Nicky's betting adversary in the film's most ludicrous sequence (and that's saying a lot). Ms. Robbie has true star potential, but the script hangs her out a few times. She will be seen as Jane in next year's Tarzan movie, so add that to your must-see list.A very smart person I know observed that Will Smith has been conning us for years, and at least he is finally admitting it by taking on this role. It is a bit tiresome to see Mr. Smith consistently play the smartest guy in the room, the most charming guy in the room, and the sneakiest guy in the room. It seems maybe he is one of the few that still buys into that. The best actors elevate their co-stars and the script, while it seems he believes his star power is all that's required.
Greetings again from the darkness. Yes, it is cool to see Deniro and Pacino on screen together again and it's inexcusable that it didn't happen a few more times over the years. But cool casting alone does not make a movie. Director Jon Avnet ("88 Minutes", "Fried Green Tomatoes") and writer Russell Gewirtz ("Inside Man") have discovered that.On a bright note, Avnet somehow managed to avoid the whiny, screaming Pacino that we have been subjected to so many times these past few years. Instead we get a guy drifting through the film as if drugged like a hyper-active child. DeNiro on the other hand does all he can do to be the tough, aging cop. We are treated to the facials, hand gestures and top notch line deliveries that we have come to expect.The two legends are joined by rival partners John Leguizano and Donnie Wahlberg, who are convinced that Deniro's Turk is a serial killer. Their captain in this is the rarely seen Brian Dennehy. DeNiro's character somehow is hooked up with the department ME played scorchingly by Carla Gugino, who in real life would undoubtedly be cheating on her multi-millionaire husband and not working for a living. Almost as a story line toss-in, rapper 50 Cent plays a drug dealing club owner who tries to play ball with the cops. Also want to mention that Alan Rosenberg has a small role and offers a reminder of his skills, which have been rarely seen since he became President of SAG.The film has many twists and turns and diversions, but there really is no doubt who the serial killer is. The video of DeNiro apparently confessing to the crime was actually a good idea and some of his best work. As with "88 Minutes", I am just not pleased with Avnet's directorial style. The attempts to shoot cool shots and toss in some quick focus just give it the look of someone trying too hard to be Scorcese. Still, it is worth seeing for DeNiro but you probably won't be surprised.While certainly watchable, this one is just not quite as smart as it tries to be.
Greetings again from the darkness. Philip K Dick was one of the more prolific sci-fi writers and his works include Blade Runner, Minority Report and Total Recall. He also wrote The Adjustment Team, the short story upon which this film is based. The premise is fascinating: the "bureau" is a team who influence/adjust the timing of events so as to lead mankind toward a predetermined future.Matt Damon plays David Norris, the rising young star in New York politics ... that is until a college prank is revealed and scandal ensues. On election night, prior to his concession speech, he meets Elise (Emily Blunt), the girl of his dreams in the men's room. I was struck with just how few times a man meets his dream woman in the men's restroom. Their charming banter and immediate connection lead Norris to make a heartfelt speech that thrusts him right back into the hearts of the voters.When David and Elise meet by chance on a bus, a mysterious force begins to reveal itself. David is exposed to The Adjustment Bureau and told to stay away from Elise, lest he ruin both his dreams and hers. Of course, this isn't really a sci-fi thriller in the traditional sense. It's much more a love story ... a love story for two people who seem pre-destined to be together. And that's the conflict.The story is really a debate between fate and free will. Does destiny lead us down the path or do we make our own way? The Chairman of the Bureau is clearly a reference to a God-like power, but his "angels" have powers limited to shortcut door portals, slight adjustments to thinking patterns, and looking good in hats.While writer/director George Nolfi creates a pretty interesting to look at cityscape and an usually smart romantic film, it actually falls a bit short on overall effectiveness when it devotes so much running time to the explanation of how the bureau works. I would have much preferred more debate and examples of how adjustments affect free will and maintain the path to destiny. Instead we get a crash course on the inner-workings of this odd team. That said, there aren't very many better faces and voices than that of Terence Stamp, who plays The Hammer for the bureau. He is a fixer who uses less than forthright tactics in his moments of influencing David.I am probably being a bit harsh on this one considering that it is quite a bit more clever than the average studio release, but I can't help but believe it was capable of so much more.
Greetings again from the darkness. Movies based on real life are often some of my favorites, but that doesn't let them off the hook in needing to be well made. The real life story of the Monuments Men provides both pride and heartbreak. This Allied group tracked down and rescued so much Nazi-stolen artwork, while at the same time being so short-staffed that they resorted to picking and choosing what parts of history and culture to save.For much of 2013, this movie was mentioned as a possible Oscar contender. When the release date was delayed and Clooney admitted he was struggling with the film's tone - a balance of comedic and dramatic and historic elements - all the warning flags shot up. The final version would certainly have benefited from script improvement, though the cast is so strong and the mission so true, that the film is still enjoyable enough. Director George Clooney and co-writer Grant Heslov have adapted the source material from Robert M Edsel, but Clooney can't resist stamping the movie with his smirk appeal.The actual Monument Men spend very little time together, so it's tough to call this an ensemble piece. Bill Murray and Bob Balaban have their own subtle comedy routine going, while John Goodman and Jean Dujardin enjoy a jeep ride. Matt Damon and Cate Blanchett add a dose of gratuitous love interest where it's not needed, and Hugh Bonneville strikes the heroic pose of redemption. Director Clooney ensures that actor Clooney and his buddy Damon get the most screen time and close-ups, detracting from what the real story should be ... the men who saved art and culture.Michelangelo's Madonna of Bruges and Hubert van Eyck's Ghent Altarpiece are supposedly the centerpieces of this group's mission, but the film really is just an amalgam of individual scenes that leave the viewer working frantically to tie all the pieces together. Shouldn't that be the filmmaker's job? The question gets asked a couple of times, "Is art worth a human life?". That critical theme could have been the core of a far superior movie ... one not in desperate need of suspense rather than more punchlines.Very few war projects have successfully blended comedy and drama. A few that come to mind are Kelly's Heroes, The Dirty Dozen and TV's "Hogan's Heroes". It's a tricky line to walk, even with a great cast. So while this one has sufficient entertainment value for a February release, I would rather recommend two others that deal with this same subject matter: The Rape of Europa (2007, documentary) and The Train (1964, directed by John Frankenheimer, starring Burt Lancaster).
Greetings again from the darkness. After the first 5 minutes, I hated Anne Hathaway's character and I was sea-sick from director Jonathan Demme's hand-held camera work. And then two hours later I felt like I had just attended a family wedding! I got fully sucked in by Jenny Lumet's (daughter of Sidney, the master) riveting story of a family ripped apart and trying desperately to hold on to what is left.While Hathaway's Kym is getting all the pub, I found Rosemarie DeWitt's Rachel every bit as mesmerizing, though a bit less laser-tongue equipped. Their scenes together are mind-warping ... truly like watching footage of a train wreck over and over. They love and hate each other, all while being loved and hated by everyone else in the family. So much self-destructiveness that it makes one wonder why apparent sweet guy Sidney (played oddly by Tunde Adedimpbe of TV on the Radio) wants to have anything to do with this ghastly group.Just to make sure you are absolutely uncomfortable, Lumet tosses in the rarely seen Debra Winger as Kym and Rachel's estranged mother, who has emotionally backed out of their life completely so as not to feel the guilt she deserves for the death of the youngest sibling.There is no way to watch this movie without numerous moments of being squeamish or uncomfortable. That is really the strength of the film ... it draws you into this world that you just don't want to be a part of.
Greetings again from the darkness. We have come to expect our Westerns to be filled with stoic heroes and nasty villains, but this film delivers a pious, yappy leading lady paired with a selfish, no frills drifter. Based on the 1988 novel from Glendon Swarthout, it's also the second directorial outing from Tommy Lee Jones (The Three Burials of Melquiades Estrada, 2005).Hilary Swank play Mary Bee Cuddy, a name repeated so many times that it will surely stick with you ... even if the movie doesn't. Thirty-one years old and unmarried, Ms. Cuddy is not without talent. She works the plough horses, cooks up fried chicken, and plays a mean fake piano. As is pointed out to her a couple of times, she is also "bossy" and "plain" looking ... neither trait especially appealing to men in the wild west.Ms. Cuddy volunteers to take three local women to Iowa. The three women (Grace Gummer, Miranda Otto, Sonja Richter) have each gone insane, and somehow Iowa is the most civilized place within a wagon ride's distance. She teams up with a low-life drifter played by Tommy Lee Jones, after they strike a deal that allows him to escape certain death. The verbal clash of cultures and personality between the two main characters provides most of the action on screen, as the three women being escorted are mostly muted and either locked in the back of the wagon or tied to a wagon wheel during riding breaks.The film is at its best when focusing on the harsh realities of frontier life. Cinematographer Rodrigo Prieto (Brokeback Mountain) does a nice job of capturing the wide expanse and stark vastness of the landscape, while also tossing in some artsy silhouettes and abruptness of this life. Director Jones utilizes some haphazardly timed flashbacks to help us better understand the plight of the three women, but this could have been done much more effectively. Courage, inner-strength, and morality all play a role here and the contrast between frontier and civilization was most distinct.Much of the film plays like an oddball buddy picture - think Nolte and Murphy in 48 Hours, or Bogart and Hepburn in The African Queen. If you find the interaction between Swank and Jones to be realistic, then you will probably buy into the whole film. If not, the lack of flow and choppiness of scenes will jump out. There seems to be a never ending stream of little more than cameos from a tremendous line-up of actors: Barry Corbin, William Fichtner, Jesse Plemons, David Dencik, Evan Jones, John Lithgow, Tim Blake Nelson, James Spader, and Hailee Steinfeld. There are even a couple of scenes near the end featuring Meryl Streep (her daughter Grace Gummer plays one of the 3 insane women). The slew of familiar faces actually detracted from the story for me, because the Swank and Jones characters just couldn't hold my attention.The ending seems quite odd and a bit out of place for what we have just watched, and I'm still confused by the line of dialogue addressing the difficult "winter" they must have had on the wagon trip ... it's clearly stated that the trip began in May and would take a few weeks. Even in Nebraska, May and June can't be considered winter. If you enjoy Hilary Swank on a soapbox or Tommy Lee Jones dancing a jig, then perhaps the pieces will fit better for you than they did for me.
Greetings again from the darkness. In 1997, director Jessica Yu won an Academy Award for her documentary short entitled "Breathing Lessons: The Life and Work of Mark O'Brien". Mr. O'Brien was a poet and journalist who attended Cal Berkeley. His story reaches the level of remarkability once you understand that he suffered the harsh effects of polio, was almost entirely paralyzed, and was confined to an iron lung for all but 3-4 hours per day. Director Ben Lewin (a Polio survivor) has taken a specific part of O'Brien's story and turned it into a very entertaining and intimate film that explores the challenges faced by the disabled in leading a full and sexual life.In 1990, O'Brien had an article published: "On Seeking a Sex Surrogate". It detailed his desire to overcome the obstacles and experience a sexual relationship. He did so by working with Cheryl Cohen Greene, a Berkeley based sex surrogate ... also a wife and mother of two. This is the very touching story of how Cheryl (played here by Helen Hunt) worked with O'Brien (played by John Hawkes) to overcome his fear and anxiety. These sessions occurred after O'Brien "cleared" his plan with his Catholic priest (William H Macy).This story is as frank and honest as you might expect, and it avoids sinking into Hollywood sentimentality for the sake of the story. The truth is plenty powerful. O'Brien's caregivers are played progressively by Rusty Schwimmer, Annika Marla and Moon Bloodgood. Cheryl's husband is played by Alan Arkin and Robin Weigert plays Susan, the woman with whom O'Brien had a loving relationship with until his death in 1999.There are some similarities to the wonderful film The Diving Bell and the Butterfly, but this story and these characters are much more accessible to the viewer. These are people with whom we care about and connect. It's a vivid reminder that living a full life regardless of one's constraints should always be the goal. Incidentally, Cheryl still works as a surrogate these days ... at age 68.
Greetings again from the darkness. The latest entry into the gray cinema genre is also the directorial debut of Dustin Hoffman. Oddly, Mr. Hoffman chose a British play for his first film. Ronald Harwood adapted his own play for the big screen and it certainly benefits from some giants in the acting world.Beechum House is a retirement home for retired musicians and performers. It's a beautiful home with a stunning property ideal for long nature walks, croquet or simply taking tea on the patio. Many details of the movie probably worked better on stage, but Tom Courtenay, Billy Connolly, Maggie Smith and Pauline Collins are wonderful as renowned singers famous for their rendition of Verdi's "Rigoletto".In a convoluted plot mechanism, Beechum House needs a cash infusion to keep its doors open, and the answer comes from a hoped for reunion of the above mentioned quartet in this year's fundraising gala. Convoluted seems like the right word because, of course, the house gets "saved", but there can't be more than 50 people in the audience ... some of which are the students Mr. Courtenay teaches in his music class.Anyway, this isn't meant to be an in-depth character study. It's just a simple, sentimental, and even sweet story of some aging, talented performers who are struggling with the pains and insecurities of old age. Michael Gambon wonderfully captures the ego of a once-great director who still thrives on what little power can be grasped at Beechum.This one is not near the level of last year's "The Best Exotic Marigold Hotel", though it's enjoyable enough for light-hearted and well-meaning entertainment. The gala also features a wonderful aria performed by famed opera singer Gwyneth Jones. Take this one for what it is ... a pleasant movie experience.
Greetings again from the darkness. "For Paul". A touching tribute to the late Paul Walker provides an emotional end to the most high-octane (sorry about that) F&F episode yet  and the perfect victory lap (sorry again) for the franchise. Of course, we know that it won't be the last, if for no other reason than easy box office money.The franchise began in 2001, and the familiar faces are back: Vin Diesel as Dom, Paul Walker as Brian, Jordana Brewster as Brian's wife Mia, Michelle Rodriguez as amnesiac Letty, Tyrese Gibson and Chris "Ludicrous" Bridges as comic relief Roman and Tej, respectively, and Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson as Agent Hobbs. New to the scene are Djimon Honsou as a terrorist, Ronda Rousey and Tony Jaa as elite henchmen (henchpersons?), Nathalie Emmanuel as super-hacker Ramsey, and Kurt Russell as the shadowy government-type cutting shady deals for fuzzy reasons. The biggest add is of course, Jason Statham as Deckard Shaw, the Black Ops big brother to Owen Shaw (Luke Evans)  silenced villain from the previous film (in which Statham made a brief appearance foreshadowing this story line).Achieving remarkable success for what started as a fun little street racing cult film, this series thrives on its familiar characters, simple plot lines, staggering lineup of dream cars, and ever-louder and larger stunts, fights and set pieces. One of the earliest scenes features a fight scene that would be the climax of most action movies: The Rock vs Jason Statham. Rather than end or solve anything, this fight merely serves as a set-up for one of the film's punchlines  involving The Rock and a plaster arm cast (pay no attention to that leg cast). In the middle, we get a too brief clash between Michelle Rodriguez and Ronda Rousey, but the real finale is a rooftop battle between Vin Diesel and Jason Statham that has such an extended cut-away, we almost forget they are going at each other.In between those colossal fights, we get Paul Walker sprinting up the side of a bus that is sliding off a cliff, a wicked and armed drone, car chases galore  including one with a stealth chopper, synchronized10,000 foot car drops from an airplane, and most impressively, car jumps between the Etihad Towers in Abu Dhabi. That last one is not just any car, but a stunning red Lykan Hypersport  one with little resale value after its final trip.Michelle Rodriguez' character is fighting her amnesia, Ludicrous and Tyrese play off each other like Laurel and Hardy, while Dom does his best Yoda impression, and Statham comes off like a revenge-seeking missile from a Terminator movie. Every character gets their fair share of posing, preening, strutting and smirking. It would be an insult to call this over-the-top because that would imply we have previously seen the top. This is high-speed, high-altitude mayhem that plays directly to a large fan base.Personally, I'm not a devout F&F follower, and have seen only the first entry prior to this latest. My attendance for Furious 7 was driven (get it?) by my interest in seeing the tribute to Walker, and my personal code of seeing every Kurt Russell movie (don't ask). However, I do understand the mass appeal, and I believe the followers will appreciate the approach of director James Wan (Saw, The Conjuring), who replaces 3 time series director Justin Lin.
Greetings again from the darkness. Where the heck have you been, Todd Field? Last seen directing 2001's excellent "In The Bedroom", Field delivers another remarkable drama with "Little Children". He proves again his insight into real people and real relationships is a bit eerie and almost tough to watch as we often recognize ourselves in his characters.An incredibly well acted movie led by the usually mediocre Kate Winslet and an on the rise Patrick Wilson ("The Alamo", "Hard Candy" and this year's "Running With Scissors"), the cast creates an atmosphere of real life allowing us to forget the performances and concentrate on the multi-layered story (co-written by Field and novelist Tom Berrotta). The genius in the film is in so many specific moments within the scenes. Jennifer Connelly (as Wilson's wife, and although still beautiful, she is scary skinny) at the dinner table when she realizes, Winslet as she is putting her daughter on the floorboard of the car, Wilson as he sneaks off the train, and the mothers at the swimming pool when they realize a predator has pierced their inner sanctum. That predator is Jackie Earle Haley who is just outstanding in his brutally tough role. Haley was seen earlier this year in "All The King's Men" and hopefully is experiencing a real comeback. Although he will always be remembered as the talented center fielder in "Bad News Bears", he definitely has more to offer.Really good dramatic stories are so rare these days. Movie makers tend to be frightened of the tough decisions we all face every day and they fall back on proved formulas and feel good fluff. This movie is real and tough and will force you to analyze your life and perspective. What a marvelous thing to be able to say about a film.So, yes I highly recommend the film, but more importantly implore Mr. Field to not leave us hanging for another 5 years. Film lovers need you!!
Greetings again from the darkness. The first thing that strikes you about this movie is that it looks and feels like ancient history. In fact, it is based on the real life happenings in 1968 - only about 40 years ago. Sally Hawkins (so wonderful in Happy-Go-Lucky) portrays Rita O'Grady, the Ford sewing machinist who reluctantly takes on the leadership role in the battle for equal pay for women.Director Nigel Cole tells this story minus the heavy-handedness of the times. In fact, it's a very entertaining tale of right vs wrong - because "that's how we have always done it". He uses actual archival footage of Ford plants, cars and workers, as well as general footage of England circa 1968. These cuts give the film a feel for the times and prevent any over-analysis of wardrobe and sets in the movie. Mr. Cole clearly has an understanding of women based on this film and his previous work in "Calendar Girls".The cross-fire between the unions, Ford, the workers and the government really bang home the notion of just how ridiculous this entire argument was (and is). Rita O'Grady was so effective because she cut through the muck and made it what it really is ... a simple case of right vs. wrong. Rights vs. privilege. This was never more apparent than in her meeting with Secretary of State Barbara Castle (Miranda Richardson). Madam Secretary is attempting to negotiate a settlement that will keep Ford happy, but quickly realizes ... with help from O'Grady ... that there is really only one correct course of action.Supporting work is excellent from Bob Hoskins, Ms. Richardson, Daniel Mayes (as O'Grady's husband), Rupert Graves and Rosamund Pike (husband and wife on different teams) and the rest of the cast of women, as well as the Ford executives and Union leaders. The film mostly rests on the shoulders of Sally Hawkins, who breezes through with a natural energy that just makes you want to pull for her. She was terrific in Happy-Go-Lucky, and even better here.The film stops short of detailing the massive battle that escalated the following year between Secretary Castle and the Labor Unions. Most attribute these fights to the downfall of the Labour Party in 1970. However, Ms. Castle's contributions are very clear in these all important topics and led directly to England's Equal Pay laws of 1970, which in turn paved the way for most other countries to follow.This is a very uplifting film and shows the bravery and determination required of those who change the course of history. Whenever you hear talk regarding the lack of strong female movie roles, this film is exhibit number one that fact can be even stronger than fiction!
Greetings again from the darkness. Have long admired director Jim Sheridan's work in such fine films as My Left Foot and the absolute must-see In America. He has a real knack for connecting with the characters and creating a sense of reality. Sadly, this one just doesn't measure up due to the script, the score and the limitations of Tobey Maguire.The basic story is a terrific foundation, but the lousy dialogue and stereotypes just cut this one off at the knees. While the trailer presents this as an extremely intense, emotional story, the finished product is little more than a predictable disappointment with Tobey Maguire sporting bug eyes as he loses his grip.Jake Gyllenhaal's character could have been much better developed and I believe more interaction between he and Maguire would have helped ... and I don't mean another scene of either one of them saying "You're my brother". We get that part already. Sam Shepard delivers another of his rare, fine performances as the dad (former military) who seems to connect with his granddaughters and a flask better than his own blood.In case you are wondering, Natalie Portman is beautiful. There are at least two scenes where the characters tell us that ... again, in case you didn't know. Her limitations are just as obvious as Tobey, and the ridiculous, extended shot of her through the kitchen window would have worked as a head shot, but seems totally out of place in the movie.Other than a brief turn from Carey Mulligan (fascinating in this year's An Education), the best thing about the film is Bailee Madison, who plays the eldest daughter. Her range is exceptional. Whether she is backing away in fright from her dad or defiantly squeaking a balloon at the dinner table, she is a master of the moment and something to behold.Sorry, I don't have much positive to say about this one, but I do believe it could have been much better with some script polishing and a replacement for Maguire.
Greetings again from the darkness. After watching this movie, I thought about researching whether the boobs of a 76 year old actress had ever been as front and center as they are in this dramedy from director Shawn Levy - not counting Calendar Girls which was for a worthy cause. Luckily I came to my senses, and realized that's not a topic anyone should be googling ... except maybe a 76 year old man.Jane Fonda is the actress whose enhanced assets are so prominently featured, and she plays the mother of four adult children come together to mourn the death of the family patriarch. This is based on the novel by Jonathan Tropper and though it's watchable enough, it could have benefited from a better script adaptation and a less mainstream comedy director. Mr. Levy provided the popular and entertaining A Night at the Museum, as well as a long list of simple minded movies that didn't prepare him for the depth of Tropper's story.The four "kids" are played by Corey Stoll, Jason Bateman, Tina Fey and Adam Driver. Also joining them under a single roof are Stoll's desperate-for-a-baby wife Kathryn Hahn, Fey's two kids and self-professed a-hole husband (Aaron Lazar), and Driver's engaged-to-be-engaged much older woman played by Connie Britton. If you think that's an outstanding cast, note that also appearing are Timothy Olyphant (Fey's brain-damaged former lover), Rose Byrne (she always lusted after Bateman), Dax Shepard (sleeps with Bateman's wife played by Abigail Spencer), Ben Schwartz as an oddball Jewish rabbi, and Debra Monk (the helpful neighbor and more).Obviously the issue with so many characters and talented actors is that screen time is limited. Somehow each of these have one key moment in the film, and that may be the biggest issue. Some of these we want to know more about (Olyphant, Byrne, Brittain), while others could have been written out of the script altogether (Lazar, Schwartz, Shepard) and the movie wouldn't have suffered, and might have improved.Most of the story revolves around Bateman and his situation - crumbled marriage, lost job, dead father, plus even more. Going through that and facing his sit-com worthy dysfunctional family provides an unending stream of none-too-subtle moments: a basement sleeper/sofa that won't fold out, roof top talks with his bossypants sister, and even fisticuffs inside the family and out.This is another in the sub-genre Suburban-angst, and the numerous contrived scenes and formulaic sequences are salvaged only by the talented casts ability to squeeze the moment from the next one-liner. There is so much rage and resentment in this family that we viewers do find humor in the toddler toting his portable potty with him everywhere, or even Bateman taking the expected fall in an ice rink. There is little edge to this material, but it's not difficult to glimpse how the right director could have approached the genius of The Royal Tenenbaums or the original Death at a Funeral, rather than a generic blend of Garden State and August:Osage County.Britton, Byrne and Batemen all have their moments, and the movie is certainly watchable ... though it could have been exceptional as either a straight out comedy or an indie-type drama. No need to email me if you come up with additional films featuring 76 year old boobs.
Greetings again from the darkness. The narrator warns us upfront ... this is not a love story. Still, we are so preconditioned by Hollywood, that directive merely floated around in my head until near the end of the film when I realized it was perfectly accurate.Joseph Gordon-Levit and Zooey Deschanel are the leads and each bring a certain quirkiness and sensitivity to their roles. Watching them grow as a couple just never quite clicks for the viewer the way it does for JGL's character. He buys in hook, line and sinker and believes his destiny for love is being fulfilled by Summer (Zooey).Director Marc Webb throws a bit of everything at us - just to prove this is not a traditional love story. We get the fun of memory blender - flashbacks like Day 488, Day 2, Day 159 - well you get the point. That is how most of us remember anyway: non-linear. We also get a funny musical number in the park, a b & w Bergmanesque dramatization, and a leading man whose poetic musings are limited to his writing quips for a greeting card company. Oh, he also takes love advice from his 11 year old soccer-playing sister (Chloe Moretz), but wisely declines most of it from his best friend played by sexist, drunken (and funny) co-worker, Geoffrey Arend.What I really like about the film is that it is different, yet very realistic. So often our "dream" girl is just not quite a fit in this world, yet she and the next guy are just right. Doesn't seem fair, but in reality, it is not only fair, but perfectly just. And remember, there is always another season ... maybe Autumn?
Greetings again from the darkness. Having not read the Young Adult novels of Suzanne Collins, my comments will be limited to the movie only and not a comparison to the books. The screenplay was a joint affair from Ms. Collins, Billy Ray, and director Gary Ross (Seabiscuit). Whether or not you read the books, you surely know that this has been an anticipated film version in the vein of Twilight and Harry Potter. My analysis is that it falls short of Harry and is superior to the vamps.What this film definitely is ... proof that Jennifer Lawrence is for real. She burst onto the scene in her Oscar nominated turn in Winter's Bone and once again, her squirrel recipes come in handy. Lawrence plays Katniss Everdeen, a tough as nails and very resourceful resident of the dirt poor District 12. She provides for her little sis and their emotionally vacant mother, and does so by honing her bow and arrow skills hunting in the vast woodlands.Without going into too much detail, the dystopian world of Panem is divided into 12 districts and a Capitol. As a combination entertainment and price for a previous rebellion, an annual lottery is held to select a boy and girl from each district ... "tributes" to their community. Those drawing the proverbial short straw are entered into brutal fight to the death, where 23 are to be killed and one left standing. In the 74th annual Hunger Games, Katniss volunteers to take the place of her little sister. So she and Peeta Mellark (Josh Hutcherson, The Kids are All Right) are whisked away to the Capitol to meet their mentor, Haymitch Abernathy (Woody Harrelson), a one time winner who celebrates daily by downing as much alcohol as possible.In stark contrast to the hopeless community from which they arrive, the Capitol is a gleaming, bright-colored land of enchantment filled with wildly costumed residents seemingly bored by the atrocity of the annual event. Seneca Crane (Wes Bentley, American Beauty) is the man in charge of staging and manipulating the event for the highest possible ratings and entertainment value. He carries out his duties while sporting a very unique satanic beard, unlike you have seen before.After prepping, the tributes appear in front of a futuristic Ryan Seacrest played by the flamboyant Stanley Tucci. His Caesar Flickerman is charged with interviewing so as to help the audience make a connection. Lenny Kravitz plays Cinna, a futuristic Tom Ford clone whose duties are to make Katniss and Peeta "presentable".It takes a full hour, but the actual Hunger Games finally begins. Quickly the faceless characters disappear and the game of brutality and brains begins. Lawrence is truly a standout here since she has tremendous ability as an actress, and sells her athletic ability quite well. I can't say I was as taken by Mr. Hutcherson, who spends most of the film looking like a wounded puppy.While the PG-13 rating keeps it from becoming a gore fest, I found the action sequences to be quite entertaining. More interesting to me was how the story and characters are posed so that a viewer might interpret meaning in just about any manner one cares to twist. There are political views and human nature traits and commentary on the Reality TV world that are primed for claiming ... regardless of one's opinion. To me, that's a weakness. I would rather the story take a stand and make a statement. But then I remind myself that this is the first in a trilogy of Young Adult stories. It's not designed for deep thought. The movie succeeds in reaching the goal of producing a strong young female character in a world run amok.
Greetings again from the darkness. The trailer told me all I need to know, but my life-long interest in all things related to the Alexandre Dumas novel had me ignoring my movie gut instincts and heading out to catch this latest version of the Muskateer saga. Since then, I have been telling myself "I told you so".Logan Lerman (Percy Jackson & the Olympians) plays the young, brash D'Artagnian, son of a former Muskateer. Lerman may develop into a fine actor someday, but right now he is as bland on screen as Orlando Bloom, who happens to play rival Duke of Buckingham. Athos, Aramis and Porthos are played, respectively, by Matthew Macfadyen (Pride & Prejudice), Luke Evans (Tamara Drewe) and Ray Stevenson (Volstagg in Thor).The boys are a bit out of sorts after being tricked by double-agent Milady, played by Milla Jovovich, who apparently is really working for the conniving Cardinal played by Christoph Waltz. Mads Mikkelsen plays Rochefort the evil army leader and master swordsman, but somehow even with Waltz and Mikkelsen, this film is just lacking in bad guy substance.Director Paul W.S. Anderson is known best for his Resident Evil film series and his love of special effects is on full display here. There were scenes that reminded me of Will Smith's Wild Wild West, and others that looked like Robert Downey, Jr's Sherlock Holmes. If you love the Dumas novel, you just cringed. The key to the Muskateers is swashbuckling and sharp, sarcastic wit surrounding wild and athletic sword play, all performed for an honorable mission.It's not the first movie in which I have disappointed, and it certainly won't be the last. It's just frustrating because ... I told me so.
Greetings again from the darkness. This follow-up to The Amazing Spider-Man (2012) seems to have the mission of throwing as much onto the screen as possible. There are not one, but three key villains, a teenage love story, a deathbed scene, numerous moments of soul-searching, a stream of wise cracks and puns, the most outrageous laboratory setting, a cartoonish evil doctor accent, the furrowed brow of Aunt Mary (Sally Field), flashbacks and video of the mysterious father, teasers for future movies, and of course, enough action and special effects to ward off any thoughts of peace.Personally, I find Andrew Garfield to be a nice fit as Spidey, but I just can't buy him as ultimate science geek Peter Parker. He bumbles about and bats his eyes too much for my tastes, and can't stand toe to toe with Gwen Stacy (real life squeeze Emma Stone) in scientific banter. Still, the original story is interesting enough that any minor issues are easily overlooked.At its core, this entry is a story of revenge. The foundation for Peter Parket's troubles all stem from Oscorp, so we are treated to some behind the facade sets that will keep viewers on their toes. After an initial face-off with bad guy Aleksei Sytsevich (a maniacal Paul Giamatti), we see the transformation of goofy Max Dillon (Jamie Foxx) into the shocking (get it?) Electro. If that's not enough, childhood buddies Peter Parker and Harry Osborn (Dane DeHaan) are reunited to set the stage for more good vs evil.The story would have benefited from more concentration on any of these three stories, while dropping one altogether. The viewer would have benefited from a slower jolt (one more!) in the transformation of Max to Electro. We needed to find the humanity, rather than just desperation. The same goes for Peter and Harry. The dots are a bit too far apart for connection, though DeHaan (so good in Lawless and Chronicle) is a striking contrast to the doe-eyed, beautifully coiffed Garfield.It's nice to see Stone's Gwen portrayed as a smart, ambitious young woman who also understands how demanding a relationship is, and the responsibility that goes with dating a superhero. Speaking of responsibility, the lack of Uncle Ben's influence here is disturbing, though probably necessary given the exploration of backstory on Peter's parents (Campbell Scott, Embeth Davidtz).When Paul Giamatti reappears near the end as Rhino, it's a bit difficult to not think "enough is enough". And oddly, this fight sequence ends abruptly, evidently setting the stage for future Spidey. And speaking of the future, the end credits scene plays as nothing more than a teaser trailer for the next X-Men movie, while robbing us of any details to the Sinister Six.Admittedly, I feel somewhat overdosed on Superhero and Comic book adaptations, yet the action and effects are still quite fun to watch, even if director Marc Webb (Ok, that pun is too easy) seems to jumble up too many story lines.
Greetings again from the darkness. Three things about the film are undeniable. One: A runaway train is fascinating and dangerous. Two: Director Tony Scott really likes working with Denzel Washington (this is their 5th movie together). Three: Inspired by a real life 2001 runaway train in Toledo, the story plays right into Mr. Scott's wheelhouse with action and testosterone.On the plus side, tension is rampant and the film does an adequate job of capturing the emotions from three different perspectives - inside a train (Denzel and Chris Pine), at command center (Rosario Dawson and staff) and at the corporate office (smarmy Kevin Dunn). We also see exactly how a simple poor decision by one major goofball (Ethan Suplee) can imperil thousands of people.Unfortunately, that's where the good news ends. The script is abysmal and the acting is not much better. Denzel sleepwalks through another textbook "Denzel" character. Rosario Dawson is given little to work with as the supervisor, and Kevin Dunn is way over the top as the corporate bad guy who is only worried about the hit to the stock price. There is even a ridiculous shot of the Chairman on a golf course, in case we viewers are too dumb to understand the perspective of the company. Chris Pine (Star Trek, Bottle Shock) is the only one who shows much, yet he still is given horrible dialogue to spout.For proof that an unstoppable train movie can be exhilarating AND well written, check out Andrey Konchalovskiy's 1985 "Runaway Train". Both Jon Voight and Eric Roberts received Oscar nominations. The psychological warfare in that one matched the breakneck pace of the train itself. Instead this film is written by Mark Bomback (Live Free and Die Hard) in such a one dimensional frame that it takes the news reports to remind us that real people are in danger.
Greetings again from the darkness. Seeing this film back-to-back with Mel Gibson's "The Beaver" was a mistake. Following up manic depression with severe alcoholism and mild depression is just a bit too much weight in such a short time. But I guess that's the point of this one. Will Ferrell stars as Nick who loses his job, punctures his boss' tire, and finds out his wife not only left him, but also locked him out of the house with all his belongings in the front yard. That's in the first 8 minutes of the film.Ferrell proceeds to get drunk ... while sitting in his Lazy Boy in the front yard. He clearly has hit bottom and shows no signs of recovering. At least not until he partners with a lonely, young, bike riding boy named Kenny (Christopher Jordan Wallace, son of Notorious B.I.G.). This partnership consists of Kenny doing most of the work for the yard sale while Ferrell sleeps and drinks.Rebecca Hall plays a pregnant woman who is moving in across the street. "What kind of man makes his wife move across country alone?". That's the question Ferrell asks Hall ... and along with the viewer, these two characters understand the answer would be a man just like Ferrell.What I like about the film is that there are numerous signs of real human emotion throughout, yet none of the main characters overplays their part. If you are unaccustomed to seeing Mr. Ferrell in anything but slapstick comedies, I encourage you to see "Stranger Than Fiction". He really does have dramatic acting skills on top of his amazing comedic talent.The film comes from first time director Dan Rush and short story writer-extraordinaire Raymond Carver. The script does capture much of the emotion that goes with feeling rejected and searching for numbness in a bottle ... or in this case, a Pabst beer can. Supporting work from Stephen Root, Laura Dern and Michael Pena are solid, but the best scenes are between Ferrell, Wallace and Hall. Don't show up expecting to laugh much. This is a serio-drama that makes you think ... there but for the grace of God ...
Greetings again from the darkness. It is now official. Diane Keaton has reached the parody of herself stage. She has become a caricature of her character. The loopy, over-the-top 60 yr old female who screams stereotype with each line. It was evident in "Something's Gotta Give" that she had made the turn, but "Because I Said So" time warps her into the level of folly ... similar to Leslie Nielsen (of "Naked Gun" fame) who once was also a respected actor. The difference being, Nielsen is at least funny, Keaton is purely grating and obnoxious. And enough with the turtle necks and ridiculous wardrobe. No one dresses like that ... especially in L.A. Of course, there is more to this movie than Diane Keaton ... wait, no there really isn't. The only semblance of a bright spot is the glimpse of potential flashed by Mandy Moore. She really has screen charisma and no longer just looks like a big kid. She has 3 films over the next 18 months, so we will see just how she is progressing. Other than that, all we get is "Gilmore Girls" Lauren Graham as the wisest of Keaton's three daughters and Piper Perabo as one of the most nondescript characters of all time. I guess she was cast because she looked decent in underwear for the massage scene.As for the poor guys in this one ... no not us schmucks who actually paid to watch, I am talking about the actors. Tom Everett Scott is totally miscast as a workaholic architect. Gabriel Macht ("A Love Song for Bobby Long") has little to do but flash his smile and twinkle his eyes. And Stephen Collins is evidently the new Tom Skerritt. You know, the cute older guy in all the chick flicks??? The director of this horrid mess is Michael Lehmann, who in the past has delivered such gems as "Hudson Hawk", "Airheads" and the torturous "40 Days and 40 Nights". When will Hollywood stop giving this guy money to make this worthless fluff? I am sure this weak, no-content film will make money ... simply because real life mothers and daughters will think they should go see it and laugh that someone's relationship is worse than theirs. I say, SAVE YOUR MONEY and rent "Terms of Endearment", which may be the best movie ever about a mother and daughter's struggles to show their love for each other. Just stay away from this one!
Greetings again from the darkness. Of course, we never expect much from January films - especially Rom-Coms or Action films. Sad to say, the stereotype fits Edge of Darkness like a glove.Held out some hope for a pleasant surprise when Mel Gibson returned to acting with Casino Royale director Martin Campbell at the helm. Unfortunately, so little effort was put into the script, that it gives the appearance of a story being made up as filming occurs.Mel Gibson stepped away from acting for awhile to concentrate on directing (Apocalypto and Passion of the Christ) ... oh yes, and carousing. His face readily displays the stress of both. This is not to say he can't generate some fine dramatic moments, but mostly, the rust shows and he is unable to lift the weak story.In support we have Ray Winstone (very good in The Departed), Bojana Novakovic as Gibson's slain daughter, and Danny Huston, who might as well wear a name badge that says, "Hello my name is BAD GUY". While not the fault of these actors, a film like this desperately needs a few standout secondary characters. Here we have none, so the story is pretty simple with little tension ... not a good thing for a "thriller".
Greetings again from the darkness. Director Jacques Audiard offers up a much different story than his previous film, the powerful A Prophet. Audiard co-wrote the screenplay with Thomas Bidegain based on a short story from Craig Davidson, and the result is a quasi-love story with very little traditional romance.The two lead performances are simply outstanding. Marion Cotillard plays Steph, a free-spirited Orca trainer at a Sea World type facility, who becomes a double amputee after a freak work site accident. Matthias Schoenaerts (Bullhead) is Ali, an emotionally stunted single dad who has all the qualifications of a big time loser ... though with a glimmer of goodness. Their two lives intersect when Ali is working as a bouncer at a nightclub, and then again after Steph's accident.It's very interesting to see how this story is treated by a French writer/director as opposed to how it might have been handled by a US filmmaker. Audiard allows much quiet simmering by the two lead actors as they both work through their own disabilities - hers physical, his emotional. They both straddle the fine line between human frailty and internal strength, often with the help of the other. It's not difficult to imagine an American take on this story focusing on the Steph's painful rehab and struggle to adjust, while also zeroing in on Ali's physicality as a street brawler and sex machine.Cotillard is a true movie star and Schoenaerts soon will be. It's so rare these days to see two strong talents in such a "little" movie, especially one in which neither character comes close to approaching glamorous - and Ali is not even likable most of the time. This is a well written, well acted character study that points out how a good soul can often save another who might not even care to be saved.Alexandre Desplat provides yet another strong score - this one complimented by many familiar songs. For those who tend to spend there movie time with only American films, this is one that will provide proof of just how different the view can be through the same camera lens.
Greetings again from the darkness. Gangster and family crime dramas are always a favorite film genre, especially when "based on a true story", as this one claims. The story comes straight from the novel "The Wettest County in the World" by Matt Bondurant, the grandson of Jack Bondurant, portrayed in the film by Shia LaBeouf. The screenplay and direction come courtesy of the latest collaboration from Nick Cave (alt-Rocker) and John Hillcoat (The Road).The cast is deep and talented. The three Bondurant brothers are played by Tom Hardy (Forrest), Jason Clarke (Howard) and LaBeouf (Jack). The brothers are moonshiners who also run their own bootlegging business in Franklin County, Virginia during prohibition and the great depression. They are assisted by a moonshine savant named Cricket (Dane DeHaan as a dead ringer for Leonardo DiCaprio in What's Eating Gilbert Grape). A beautiful former Chicago dancer played by Jessica Chastain stumbles into their café while inexplicably searching for a quieter life. Mia Wasikowska is the preacher's daughter with a rebellious streak who gets courted by Jack. Gary Oldman is terrific, though sadly limited in screen time, as the notorious gangster Floyd Banner, and Guy Pearce plays Special Detective Charlie Rakes. Rakes is a corrupt, outlandishly colorful character out of Chicago who is on assignment to either get a cut of the business or kill everyone in the process ... all while smelling like a "nancy" and keeping blood off his tailored suits. He does this with the worst movie haircut since Anton Chigurh. Pearce plays him like a mix of a Christoph Waltz villain and Willem Dafoe's detective in The Boondock Saints. Quite a visual.With this cast and a very stylistic look provided by wonderful camera work, color scheme, and costumes, it's a bit confounding that the movie isn't a little better than it is. The war between outlaws and crooked lawmen, splashed with minor love stories and interesting characters seems to have a gap. Apparently there are too many vying for too little screen time. Gary Oldman's character has a stunning and violent screen entrance, but then is wasted and ignored for the balance of the film. Chastain's Maggie is carrying a back-story that is clearly very intriguing, but all we get is a few pouty looks.Since the novel's author is the grandson of Jack, we can assume that's why LaBeouf gets so much attention and screen time. He is the family runt, and can't wait to prove his worth to his brothers. Even if this is true, this story line is nowhere near as interesting as that of Forrest, Floyd Banner, Detective Rakes, or Maggie. Whenever LaBeouf came on screen, I felt like I was watching an actor. When Hardy or Clarke were featured, it felt like real hillbillies were trying to protect their moonshine business. Speaking of Hardy, he dominates the screen again ... just like in Inception and The Dark Knight Rises (as Bane). So anxious to watch his career continue to develop.Nick Cave and Warren Ellis combine on the excellent score, as well as some of the fine songs performed by The Bootleggers. The music adds even more to the film's feel. With all of the characters here, this might have taken a step up as a mini-series. As it stands, it falls short of The Untouchables or HBO's Boardwalk Empire. While entertaining enough, it leaves us with an empty feeling and a hokey shootout finale.
Greetings again from the darkness. Seeing this film on opening day means you are sitting in a theatre with other aficionado's of Ayn Rand's novel published more than 50 years ago. I just finished my third reading (spread over 20+ years). The argument could be made that the readers of the novel make up the only real audience for the movie ... and that's purely from curiosity after so many "almost" projects over the years.I won't sugar-coat this. The movie has the production value, look and feel of a TV movie. Obviously much money was saved by going with a third-tier cast. Sure, many of the faces are recognizable, but what is lacking is screen presence. This is a story of corporate mavericks vs. big time government sleaze-bags. Neither side is powerful enough to generate sufficient heat, friction or conflict worthy of the fabulous source material. The special effects of the initial run on Rearden Metal had some nice moments, but with so much back story lacking, I can't imagine anyone really understanding the movie if they had not already absorbed the book.There aren't many page-turners that are 1200 pages strong. Ms. Rand's novel is one of them. It deserved better than this after so many years. The decision to place the film 5 years in the future and then shoot it like it's still the 1950's makes for an odd look. Additionally, the shadowy John Galt figure seems stilted and amateurish.Tayor Schilling (from TV's "Mercy") as Dagny Taggart and Grant Bowler as Hank Reardon are in most scenes. I didn't find much chemistry between them ... heck, I didn't see much EFFORT from either of them. These are supposed to be two very strong and intelligent people. As they say their lines, they give the impression of not understanding the words being said. Matthew Marsden as Dagny's brother James does not posses the acting chops to pull off this difficult and crucial role. On the other hand, Jsu Garcia might just have the presence to nail the crucial Francisco D'Anconia character.The independent producers have already stated that parts 2 and 3 are contingent upon a strong showing from this opening act. Unfortunately, I doubt the Rand followers will see the film multiple times and the weak production value make me doubt whether anyone "new" will discover it. Ayn Rand's words always makes me think. I shudder to think what her reaction to this would have been after fighting so many times to have the film made "her way". Even though I am a movie addict, I will state unequivocally that if you are to choose between seeing this movie and reading the book ... choose the book.
Greetings again from the darkness. Everyone involved with this one should be embarrassed. A butchering of Will Eisner's comic book series and just a total waste of time and talent and source material. It is impossible not to compare this to Frank Miller's Sin City, but the nicest thing I can say is there is absolutely NO COMPARISON! Sin City was beautiful and complex and exceedingly well done. This one is little more than a science project.Gabriel Macht as the Spirit just does not have the charisma or screen presence to make this work. On top of that, much of the dialogue is weak and not that funny. Yes, there were a hand full of clever lines, but mostly the obvious attempts just fall flat. Mr. Overexposure, Samuel L Jackson is actually in his wheelhouse as Octopus, but Scarlett Johansson and Eva Mendes are just not given much to work with.This is Frank Miller's first solo run as a director and we now know that Robert Rodriguez and Quentin Tarantino were the masterminds behind the successful rendition of Sin City. Not even sure this one is worth a video rental. Very disappointing.
Greetings again from the darkness. Director DJ Caruso lapses into the same thing here that prevented his "Two For the Money" from being better. The interaction between characters, including the exchange of dialogue, just doesn't flow naturally. We never escape the feeling that these are actors reading their lines.That said, this was a better film than expected. Sure, it is a blatant rip-off of Hitchcock's classic "Rear Window". The only things missing are a wheelchair (an electronic ankle monitor instead) and the fabulous wardrobe of Grace Kelly (replaced here by the tight jeans of Sarah Roemer). Of course, Jimmy Stewart's telephoto lens from the original has been given a high-tech face lift utilizing computers and digital movie cameras. Regardless of the changes, the story remains the same. Shia LaBeouf is a teenager under house arrest for slugging a teacher who asked for it. To prevent boredom, LaBeouf "observes" his neighbors and stumbles on what appears to be a very bad guy next door played by the eternally (and wrongfully) stereotyped David Morse. LaBeouf manages to draw a couple of others into his web, most notably his beautiful new neighbor (Roemer), who reads on the roof, dips in the pool and yogas in front of her open windows. In other words, a peepers best friend!Nothing to give away here because there are no real surprises. That is what's missing! How about a twist? Instead, every one in the movie is exactly as first presented to us. Where is the filmmaker sleight-of-hand? Where is the blind side? Those are the things that make a successful thriller. Still, LaBeouf shows some acting potential and could develop into a star if the vehicle is ever just right. Playing his mom here is the terrific Carrie-Anne Moss ("The Matrix"), but she is really given little to do. What I really wish is that someone would cast Mr. Morse in a role where he can really stretch a bit. The guy is a good actor but these days is relegated to playing the strong, silent bad guys. Whatever happened to "St. Elsewhere"?
Greetings again from the darkness. Director Antoine Fuqua is best known for "Training Day". He obviously has a love and an eye for machismo moments and settings. Here Mark Wahlberg dodges bullets, bombs, helicopters and politicians ... while also providing himself with emergency medical service, going on a mission to take out the bad guys and even getting the girl. Busy day at the office.Yes, we have seen all of this many times before, and often done better in "Bourne Identity", "The Fugitive", "Mission Impossible" and even "MaGuyver". Still there is always something fun about a good guy is wrongly accused and goes on a "him against the world" quest to clear his name and right a wrong.This one has enough explosions to make Jerry Bruckheimer and Tony Scott jealous, but Wahlberg brings just enough soul to his role to maintain our interest. Good support work from the underrated Michael Pena, a lispy Danny Glover, two beauties - Rhona Mitra and Kate Mara, Elias Koteas and a sleazy Senator played by Ned Beatty. There is also a nifty little appearance from the great Levon Helm, who just doesn't grace us with his presence nearly often enough.Even though some of the photography is beautiful, if you are looking for thought-provoking film-making, this one isn't for you. If you are looking for adrenaline rushes and testosterone-pumping action, give it a shot.
Greetings again from the darkness. Kathryn Bigelow entered the realm of elite directors when her war thriller The Hurt Locker exploded onto the Oscar scene a few years ago. Once again she proves why the critics adore her, and the movie going masses stay away. She is an expert filmmaker, a brilliant technician, though not much into the whole entertainment scene.We always try to label films and this one doesn't quite fit as thriller or action, or even war, genre. It's really a tense, procedural drama focusing on the behind-the-scenes CIA hunt for Osama bin Laden. In fact, it's mostly the story of one obsessed CIA agent's research and un-wavering pursuit of the one most responsible for the tragic events of 9-11-01 (as well as many others).The film started out as a story of the nearly decade long pursuit and the failure to find him. Everything, including the movie, changed on May 2, 2011 when Navy SEAL Team Six pulled off the daring and historic mission to kill bin Laden. The book "No Easy Day" by Mark Owen (pseudonym for real life SEAL Matt Bissonnette) was released and many of the details became public. Bigelow and her writer Mark Boal (former journalist) went even deeper into research mode and now the film has instigated Congressional hearings in regards to some of the scenes.Bigelow presents this as old school, hard core males vs the intellectual, instinctive and brazen Maya, played by Jessica Chastain. In the book, she is referred to as "Jen", but her name matters not. What's important is her laser-like focus for almost 10 years, despite the numerous attempts by her superiors to ignore her theories.Much of the film deals with the group meetings and presentations to CIA mid-managers, who either don't trust her or refuse to put their own careers on the line. Maya remains relentless. She finally gets a audience with CIA Director Leon Panetta (played by James Gandolfini) and introduces herself as "the M*****F****R who found this place, sir". This comes across as confident, not disrespectful.Bigelow and Boal refuse the temptation of providing any real backstory or personal life on these characters. We do learn that Maya was recruited right out of high school, so we can assume she wasn't a typical 18 year old. The only thought of a romantic interlude is quickly shot down by Maya proclaiming (in so many words), she's not that kind of girl.Most of the men in the film are presented as near Neanderthals. Jason Clarke is the old school field agent who has mastered the use of torture, water-boarding and humiliation to gain information from detainees. The "60 Minutes" clip of Obama saying that America will no longer utilize torture is one of the few tips to national politics that the film offers up. The only politics are those played by station chief Kyle Chandler, who is protective of his job, and Mark Strong, who seems relatively helpless without the support of his superiors. All this while Maya keeps pushing and pounding for action.The Langley vs Field work provides a distinctive line in the sand between the two worlds, and emphasizes just how easy it is to make a mistake in judgment. What if we had been wrong on the location of bin Laden? What if the "fortress" had belonged to a drug dealer instead and the SEAL team had invaded a private home within the boundaries of supposed ally Pakistan? Jessica Chastain is believable and tough in her role, and Jason Clarke dominates the screen in his early scenes. Other fine support work comes courtesy of Edgar Ramirez, Mark Duplass, Harold Perrineau, and Jennifer Ehle. When we finally get to the strategy session for the mission, we meet SEAL's played by Chris Pratt and Joel Edgerton. The 25 minutes or so dedicated to the helicopter mission are filmed as if we are wearing the same night-vision goggles worn by the brave souls storming the castle. It's a very impressive sequence.If you enjoy the details of a procedural drama, then you will find much to like here ... knowing the ultimate outcome doesn't affect the suspense one bit. However, if you seek an entertaining respite from your daily grind, this one will offer no assistance ... despite another excellent and minimalistic mood score from Alexadre Desplat.
Greetings again from the darkness. What a beautiful piece of filmmaking that up-and-coming writer/director Jeff Nichols (Shotgun Stories) delivers. Not only will the story grab you and hold tightly, but Michael Shannon's performance will stun your senses. All of that from a film with very few special effects and a story based in a quiet, rural Ohio town? Yes.Shannon (Boardwalk Empire, Revolutionary Road) plays Curtis, a quiet, hard-working husband and father. His friend and co-worker Dewart is played by Shea Whigham (also Boardwalk Empire). Early on, Dewart tells Curtis (with a touch of envy) that he has a good life, and that's about the best thing you can say about a man. It's about this time that all heck breaks loose for Curtis. He has apocalyptic dreams and visions that a world-changing storm is coming.Being the strong man and protective head of the family that he is, Curtis tries to keep this quiet. However, his behavior grows more strange as he builds out a storm shelter in the backyard, gets rid of the family dog, and messes things up at work. Most of this wouldn't stand out for most people, but Curtis is the "normal" guy - the one who is consistent and predictable. At least he once was.Curtis' wife Samantha (Jessica Chastain) and hearing impaired daughter Hannah (Tova Stewart) are supportive and try to give him space, but the family demands are such that a husband and wife confrontation is not long in the making. Turns out Curtis has a family history that drives him to dig a little deeper and even seek help.After much emotional wrangling, there is a scene at a fundraising dinner where Curtis and Dewart have it out. Shannon's rant is one of the more powerful scenes you will ever see on film, and may have just clinched him an Oscar nomination.This is a thought-provoking and emotional film that doesn't beat you over the head. Things unfold at a natural pace, in fact, it may be too slow for some viewers. The score is haunting and never once over-bearing as we battle through these stages with Curtis.The ending may prove controversial, but I just smiled a very satisfied smile in appreciation of one beautiful film. There could be comparisons to Peter Weir's The Last Wave, or even The Coen Brothers' A Serious Man (sans humor), but to me, this one stands on its own as a story of love, support and strength.
Greetings again from the darkness. Can a film be a beautifully crafted work of art AND also a movie that very few will enjoy, or even have an interest in seeing? Clearly, I am in the minority here as critics are raving about the insight and genius of writer/director Steve McQueen ("Hunger"). McQueen is an art school graduate and has a terrific eye for color, tone, texture and visual acumen. Those talents (and much more) are all on display in "Shame".For me, there are two separate aspects to discuss: the look of the film, and the effectiveness of the story. The first deserves recognition and kudos, while the second has resulted in a total lack of interest and ambivalence. Evidently the goal was to detail and humanize the diagnosis of sex addiction, specifically the lack of emotional connection that follows this most personal of activities.I will not itemize the number of ways in which Brandon (Michael Fassbender) tends to his addiction. On the surface, he is a normal looking guy with a normal job in a generic Manhattan office building. We quickly learn that he is always alone ... regardless if he is in a group at hour hour, hooking up with one of his endless stream of partners, or handling his own business. This guy is unable to find joy in anything that his life offers.His isolated world is one day invaded by his sister Sissy (Carey Mulligan). We learn that their up-bringing has something to do with his always dour moods, and her desperate need for attention and care. They are both a mess ... just in different ways. She has a line via voice mail that says "We aren't bad people. We're just from a bad place.". That is meant to explain the rotting foundation without exposing us to another story of poor parenting skills.The clearest indication that Brandon's emotional issues are well beyond frayed, occurs when he actually starts to see a glimmer of relationship hope with a co-worker, only to have that end in performance failure. He quickly fixes the problem by resorting to what he does best ... with no meaning attached.Carey Mulligan is building a strong film career and her performance here is wonderful. Michael Fassbender has had a remarkable year with the latest X-Men, Jane Eyre, A Dangerous Method, and Haywire. That is a dream year for this fine actor. The film is beautiful to look at and has stunning performances. All that for a movie that is not really very interesting and certainly lacks substantive entertainment value for the normal movie-goer.
Greetings again from the darkness. Drab adaptation based on John Bingham's book. Views a bit like a play but provides absolutely no drama and little insight. The funniest bit was trying to count the number of cigarettes! Chris Cooper stars as a discontented rich married guy who thinks he has found true love in the young hot widow played by Rachel McAdams. Cooper's longtime wife is played by the always terrific Patricia Clarkson in a underwritten role where she still manages to bring a spark. The narrator and grand marshall is Pierce Brosnan who is best friends with Cooper and strangely drawn to McAdams himself.Isolation, desperation and selfishness are all themes and none are especially interesting. The suspense is gone the first time we see Cooper introduce McAdams and the whole poisoning thing is straight out of a cheesy 1940's film. Lack of depth to this story, no real suspense and a goofy ending all lead to a mediocre film with nothing new to offer ... except the cool opening credit sequence.
Greetings again from the darkness. What a terrific first feature film from writer/director Ritesh Batra. Don't mistake this for the typical Bollywood release in the U.S. There are no song and dance numbers here. Instead it's a very intimate portrait of how two people awaken to their own situations by connecting with each other through notes in a lunchbox.Lunchbox takes on a life of it's own when referring to the dabbawallahs - the infamous lunch delivery men in Mumbai. The opening credits provide us a ride-along with the key lunchbox as it takes multiple forms of transportation prior to arriving at its destination. Only this time, a rare mistake occurs. The lunchbox from Ila lands on the busy desk of Saajan, rather than her husband. See, Ila is trying to re-capture the attention of her distracted husband. Instead, she finds a soul mate via note exchange and tasty dishes.While Ila is a desperate and frustrated housewife, Raajan is a melancholy widower who is headed to retirement in hopes that it helps him forget all that he now tries to cover up through his cigarette habit and retreat from society. The real magic here stems from the slow process of self-realization that occurs for the two characters. There is humor and emotion aplenty, yet both performances of Irrfan Khan (Saajan) and Nimrat Kaur (Ila) are remarkably understated and believable and touching. We immediately care for both.Nawazuddin Siddiqui offers support as the very interesting and entertaining Shaikh ... a character that could easily support his own film. We also see Lillete Dubey as Ila's mother. Ms. Dubey was terrific in Monsoon Wedding (2001). Equally impressive is the viewpoint of Mumbai. The overcrowded streets, trains and buses leave us understanding how difficult daily life is for these folks.Not since Lost in Translation has a platonic relationship been so effectively told on screen. This story and these characters remind us just how important human connection is ... letting someone share your dreams is a rewarding step.
Greetings again from the darkness. With only a few exceptions, comparing any sequel to its original is a bit unfair and usually somewhat disappointing. This is especially true with the Die Hard franchise. That initial entry in 1988 is often referred to as the top of the class in the action film genre. It combined stunning action sequences, breath-taking suspense, a world class villain, and a few characters to whom we could relate. Most notably, it introduced us to John McClane, a NYC cop making a trip to California in a last ditch effort to re-connect with his estranged wife and have Christmas with his kids. McClane, as played by Bruce Willis, was a likable guy with a touch of desperation and a terrific stream of wise-cracks. Oh yeah, he also managed to run barefoot through broken glass while outsmarting a team of high-powered terrorists looking to steal millions.Twenty-five years later, McClane (and Willis) is back for the fifth entry in the Die Hard franchise. Unfortunately, he is the only piece that bears any resemblance to the original brilliance. The action is only stunning in its level of absurdity and exaggeration. The first car chase seemingly destroys at least a third of the existing vehicles in Moscow. It does so with film editing that is likely to create nausea and migraines among viewers. Subsequent action scenes include numerous explosions and enough gunfire and violent falls to kill off McClane and his son (Jai Courtney) at least a dozen times. Chernobyl makes for an interesting connection to the past, but falls flat in the end. Speaking of falling, McClane and Junior somehow manage to avoid paralysis or even broken ribs despite numerous falls and jumps that are just plain laughable.The only "breathtaking" suspense offered was an obvious twist among characters we can't name with baggage we aren't privy to. The only other significant breath was my exaggerated sighs of frustration. As for the villain, I couldn't remember his name during the movie and we are never let in on the big secret file  only that it contains some bad stuff on important Russian big guys. This particular bad guy chomps on a carrot while performing a goofy little dance  all while threatening to kill McClane and his son. Guess what happens? You're right  McClane doesn't die.Relating to these characters is impossible. McClane has some lame parent-regrets that don't come across as sincere. His son is such a highly trained CIA operative that we aren't sure what to make of him. We know he botched his mission and apparently it was because he stopped to yell at his dad for the ill-timed visit. The Russian that Junior is supposedly rescuing is bland, though he has a lovely daughter  but even she is saddled with truly awful dialogue. The only fun character in the movie is the Russian cabbie played by Pasha Lychnikoff. He sings Sinatra with a smile, even if he actually never drives the cab thanks to the traffic.It's been a rough year for Stallone, Schwarzenegger, Statham and now Bruce Willis. Maybe the action genre has been muted due to the terrific action sequences of the recent Batman and James Bond movies  each of which offer interesting stories to go with endorphins rush action . The first Die Hard had a great story and fun dialogue. Now McClane spends much of the time telling people "I'm on vacation". When it's not funny the first time, each successive time is just exasperating. That's not acceptable writing and this isn't acceptable movie directing. Director John Moore is also responsible for The Omen (remake) and Max Payne, while writer Skip Woods gave us Swordfish and The A-Team. There have to be more talented filmmakers who deserve a shot.
Greetings again from the darkness. One of my movie review rules is about to be broken. Typically I don't judge movies based on the filmmaker's gender, but there is a good reason to do so this time. Writer/director Gillian Robespierre delivers an extraordinary film that avoids the extremes we have come to expect: the "shock for shock's sake" of HBO's "Girls" and the fantasy world of glamour and shoes of Sex and the City. Instead we get an authentic look at a lead character that seems like a woman we could actually know.Based on Ms. Robespierre's popular 2009 short film of the same name, this one features a brilliant collaboration with Jenny Slate whom many will recognize from "Saturday Night Live". Ms. Slate brings a grounded, believable quality to both the stand-up sequences and the struggling Brooklyn 30-ish woman's clunky transition into adulthood. This story works because we like Donna (Slate's character), we empathize with Donna, and we root for Donna.You may have heard this referred to as "the abortion comedy". While it's common to apply simple labels to movies, this seems to be a case of mistaken identity. Absolutely there is humor present - Donna's hobby is stand-up comedy. And yes, the decision to have an abortion is a key element in the script ... but there is also a strong Rom-Com element, a study in friendship, a look at relationships, a peek at the bond between adult kids and their parents, and the ever-present struggle between independence and the hope for true love. There is a lot going on here, and most of it is handled exceptionally well.The film kicks off with an uncomfortable foul-mouthed stand-up segment from Donna. While I have never been a fan of fart-poop-pee humor, it's our introduction to her thought process and how she uses her own life as subject matter, creating a kind of self-therapy. Soon thereafter, we witness a most unorthodox break-up between Donna and her boyfriend. This is followed by lots of wine consumption, blind support from her friend Nellie (played by Gaby Hoffmann - all grown up since her time as the young daughter in Field of Dreams), and a drunken fling with ultra nice guy Max (Jake Lacy from TV's "The Office"). Their "date" includes pretty much everything except a condom, which leads to the abortion story line.Handled with dignity and frankness, Donna's decision is one faced by many women. It's a part of life and receives straightforward treatment (save one questionable joke). The real joy here is not just how the story focuses on a female character, but that it's told from the female perspective ... two rarely seen approaches from Hollywood. The dialogue rings true and the clichés are minimal. There is even a nice guy to offset the big jerk! The closest comparison I can come up with is Knocked Up, which was much more concerned with laughs, and treated abortion as a taboo topic. Donna's parents are played by Richard Kind and Polly Draper, and both add an element of realism and love that rings true. David Cross and Gabe Liedman have interesting and funny support roles as well. But understand that this movie belongs to Jenny Slate and especially director Gillian Robespierre, two very strong and talented women who just upped the standard for filmmaking ... not just female filmmaking. http://moviereviewsfromthedark.com/
Greetings again from the darkness. World famous fashion designer Tom Ford dives head first into the movie world as writer (screenplay) and director of this one. As expected, the visual details are impeccable - from the "glass house" to the color scheme to the set design to the wardrobe and make-up. All that is missing is a character we care about.Colin Firth has been nominated for many awards for his performance as George, the grieving professor, who in 1962 lost his partner of 16 years. Not even sure grieving is the correct word. Mostly, George has just given up on life. He gets up every morning and puts on his facade and begins the false-front that is his day.We see, in flashback/daydream form, Mathew Goode as George's partner. They seemed to have been very happy together. We also see Julianne Moore as George's neighbor and long ago shot at a "real" relationship (her words). Ford has a nice touch showing Ms. Moore applying make-up as she puts on her best front for an evening with her grieving friend, George. It's all a bit pathetic actually.Anyway, here it is 8 months after his lover's death and George has apparently decided to end his misery. We are locked in to his preparations, which are every bit as fastidious as his morning routine. My favorite parts were when George gets shocked out of his little world and has to interface, even briefly, with a colleague or neighbor's kid. The way he maintains is front is the key to what's ticking.Overall, it is impossible to argue with the praise being heaped upon Mr. Firth for his fine performance, but this film is really pretty shallow and gives us nothing to really ponder. Maybe the Christopher Isherwood novel (source material) is better. Evidently the subject matter clicked with Mr. Ford ... too bad he wasn't successful in sharing his connection.
Greetings again from the darkness. David Cronenberg is a brilliant filmmaker. Brilliance doesn't necessarily translate into popular or even accessible. He tends to make movies that force a level of discomfort while viewing, while also stretching our intellect as we attempt to follow. Even his films that come closest to mainstream (A History of Violence, The Fly) refuse to allow us to just sit and be entertained. His more esoteric films (Naked Lunch, Crash) will cause your thoughts to swim and your gut to churn.This latest is based on the Don DeLillo novel and there is no known group of film lovers for whom this can be recommended, save Cronenberg fans. Even that doesn't reduce its brilliance. Robert Pattinson plays Eric Packer, the ultimate example of the 1% that is receiving such notice these days. Packer is a young, billionaire, who rides around in his mobile ivory tower (you might call it a white stretch limo), taking meetings while on his mission to get a haircut. The meetings are vignettes designed to grow increasingly abstract and dialogue heavy as the film progresses.The meetings feature Jay Baruchel as his Chief of Technology, Philip Nozuka as an Analyst, Emily Hampshire as his Chief of Finance, Samantha Morton as his Chief of Theory ... oh, and a special meeting with his mistress Juliette Binoche. He also manages to continually run into his new wife played by Sarah Gadon, and work in his daily doctor's exam which is extremely thorough. All of these occur while he is being protected by his security chief played by Kevin Durand.This film is not plot driven, but rather ideal and theory driven. From the discussions we can tell that the financial systems are collapsing and Packer is losing millions by the minute. His fortune is vanishing and there are threats on his life. The most interesting threat comes from his true polar opposite in life - Benno Levin played by Paul Giamatti. This sequence is the film's longest and most dialogue heavy. Understanding every sentence is not necessary to realize it's a comment on the faceless many vs the evil privileged. The paranoia has boiled over to the point where anarchy and violence somehow make sense.Twilight fans will not be pleased with Pattinson's performance, but he is absolutely perfect as Packer. His cold, arrogant nature and monotone voice are anything but emotionless. He apparently realizes his path is leading to the Village of the Damned, and he seems to have designed his own purgatory. One of the funniest, yet still odd, moments arrives in the form of Mathieu Amalric, who will generate recollections of a Rupert Murdoch incident.Howard Shore provides an extremely subtle score that fits with the mood changes a the film progresses. Again, this is a bit like watching a philosophical laboratory experiment and certainly won't appeal to a wide audience. If you are a Cronenberg fan, have at it. If not ... the risk is yours.
Greetings again from the darkness. Although it is a deserving character and franchise for a proper burial, melancholy was what I most experienced while watching this send off. It is almost sad watching this metaphor for Mr. Stallone's career unfold on the screen.I was so hoping to like this more than I did. The dialogue is laughable and the thought of this do-nothing restaurant oaf getting in good enough shape to go 10 rounds with the heavyweight champ of the world is simply preposterous. Of course, "Rocky" was only barely believable in 1976 and what made it so lovable then was the sweetness and purity of the character. Although Stallone tries hard to recapture those traits, sadly history cannot be repeated.The last thing I want to do is go on and on bashing the film. The good points were real life fighter Antonio Tarver as Mason Dixon, Rocky's ring opponent in this one. Also nice is Geraldine Hughes as Rocky's latest save-the-puppy project. The great theme song is given the Muzak treatment with soft piano throughout ... that is a mistake. The flashbacks, while overdone, were at times pretty cool. The in-training segment was too short, while the actual fight scenes were mercifully brief ... although the way Rocky leads with his head, we have to believe if they were really fighting, it would have been much more brief! So, although it is better than most in the series, it doesn't come close to the charm of the 1976 film. R.I.P. Rocky.
Greetings again from the darkness. A rollicking good time with a bunch of music loving rebels, this film is mostly fiction, yet provides a nice glimpse into the mid-1960's British Rock music scene. Don't expect Citizen Kane and you won't be disappointed.Philip Seymour Hoffman (as The Count) leads the band of merry rock DJ's as they skirt the law and broadcast from sea onboard and trashed out ship owned by by the fabulous Bill Nighy. This troupe includes the likes of (proud and chubby) Nick Frost and Rhys Darby (from Flight of the Conchords). However, when DJ legend Gavin (in a flamboyant role by Rhys Ifans) steps on the ship, it goes to an entirely new level of wackiness.Being a true devotee of this period of music, I do wish a bit more attention had been paid to struggles to achieve acceptance ... rather than the odd personalities and sexual hijinks of the group, but with more than 60 songs touched, it is difficult to complain.Lest I forget, January Jones and Emma Thompson have brief, yet significant roles in the human side of the story. Still, the real star here is the music. Writer/Director Richard Curtis does a wonderful thing with some of the clips of British youths stealing a few moments with their radio. The faces often just show a look of total bliss. And that perfectly captures the magic of music - how it just captures our spirit and allows us to escape.Fast approaching 50 years now, in the words of the great Neil Young, Rock and Roll will never die.
Greetings again from the darkness. We are accustomed to movies with men posing as women for comedic effect ... Mrs. Doubtfire and Tootsie come to mind. Watching an extremely serious, even bleak, film with a woman (Glenn Close) posing as a man is a bit unusual, and I will say, downright uncomfortable. When Albert Nobbs is described by his co-workers as an odd little man, they have no idea! The film is based on a novella by George Moore, and has been a pet project of Glenn Close since she starred in an off-Broadway play in the 1980's. Her dream has been realized in this film directed by Rodrigo Garcia. The film has an extremely talented cast including Brendan Gleeson as a doctor, Bronagh Gallagher as Mrs Page, Mia Wasikowska, Aaron Johnson and Brenda Fricker as hotel staff, Pauline Collins as the hotel proprietor, and Jonathan Rhys Meyers as a frequent hotel guest.Beyond that fabulous cast, the only thing that really makes the film worth watching is the curious performance of Ms. Close as Albert Nobbs and the colorful turn by Janet McTeer as Mr. Page ... the only one (we know of) who can understand what Albert is going through. Both are nominated for Oscars. During the film, we get the personal story from each of these characters on why they made their choice, but Albert's story is a bit muddled. He/she seems to have just fallen into the life and been unable to stop for the past 30 years. Now, Albert has a dream that can only be achieved through the wages earned as the non-descript, efficient waiter.There are many painful scenes to watch, but none moreso than Albert courting Helen so that he can have a partner for his new business. He has no idea of how a real relationship works or why people are attracted to each other. Albert just sees Helen as a means to an end. Some will enjoy this much more than I, as the thought of pretending to be someone you aren't for 3 decades is just more than I can even comprehend. When Gleeson's doctor spouts that he has no reason why people choose to lead such miserable lives, I concur whole-heartedly.
Greetings again from the darkness. We are all fine with the endless stream of animation featuring talking animals. The rules change a bit when the movie is live action ... and the animals still talk! Not only do they talk, but they are giving lessons in love to zookeeper extraordinare Griffin (Kevin James) ala Dr. Phil.Personally I think Kevin James is more suited to television, but it's hard to argue with the huge box office success of Paul Blart Mall Cop. This movie isn't quite as creative as that one, but for mindless summertime fun in an air-conditioned environment and a kid-friendly theme, it works OK.The kid-friendly theme is somewhat misleading. To me, it's the greatest flaw of the movie. It can't seem to decide if it wants to be a kids movie or a "clever" film for kids that adults will enjoy. I don't think most adults will enjoy it and I think most kids will be confused and bored by the adult plot of helping Kevin James land the girl.If you are going to have talking animals these days, you must have high priced voices ... even though you can't recognize them. Some of the vocal talent on display includes Sylvestor Stallone and Cher as lions, Nick Nolte as the gorilla, Jupp Apatow as an elephant, producer Adam Sandler as the monkey ("throw poop"), Faizon Love and Jon Favreau as arguing bears, Maya Rudolph as an off-key giraffe, and Don Rickles as a frog.The story is this: Kevin James is a nice guy zookeeper who is loved by the animals, but spurned in marriage by his girlfriend Leslie Bibb. He works with nice gal Rosario Dawson who likes him so much that she agrees to help him get the shallow Bibb back. Other zoo co-workers include Donnie Wahlberg and Ken Jeong, who must be in every third movie released this year. Yada, Yada, Yada ... animals give advice, Kevin James learns about real love, gorilla learns some people can be trusted, they all live happily ever after. I don't consider that a spoiler.The movie is produced by Adam Sandler and directed by his buddy Frank Coraci. Coraci also directed a comedy I kind of like (The Wedding Singer) and a couple I absolutely couldn't stand (Click, The Waterboy). Anyway, if you are looking for mindless fun with the family, this one is safe though not inspired.
Greetings again from the darkness. Director Doug Liman is best known for his fine work at the beginning of the "Bourne" franchise. His latest has so many obstacles to overcome, a tip of the cap is in order for a thriller that isn't altogether without merit.These obstacles include such things the all too familiar sub-genre of alien-invasion, an overload of special effects, a familiar actress in an unfamiliar action-hero role, and above all others, the casting of the divisive Tom Cruise ... whose detractors will certainly get a kick out of the nearly endless stream of on screen deaths his character experiences. After all, what's more fun than bashing Cruise over and over and over again? On the plus side, the special effects are very well done; Emily Blunt (despite being the best tanned Brit ever) more than holds her own; and the role allows Tom Cruise to do the two things he does best: incredible stunts and action sequences, and transform from cocky d-bag to dependable, highly competent icon. Without much thought, it's pretty easy to see the similarities to his characters in Top Gun, Jerry Maguire, A Few Good Men, and The Color of Money ... and of course, his recent outing in Oblivion. There is also a convenient excuse for Cruise to lose his battle helmet, an unnecessary segment of him riding his motorcycle, and of course, the patented Cruise sprint is on display.The movie itself begs for the obvious comparison to Groundhog Day and Source Code, with elements of Aliens, District 9, and The Matrix. Despite all the familiarity, this one kind of works thanks to the screenplay of Christopher McQuarrie (3 other Cruise movies) based on the 2004 novel from Hiroshi Sakurazaka entitled "All You Need is Kill". Why the Producers chose this generic, daytime soap opera type title over the source material title is beyond me.Cruise especially takes to the first half comedic moments, and that explains why the first half of the movie is much stronger than the second half. The phrase "On your feet, Maggot" takes on the the Sonny and Cher role from Groundhog Day, and to great effect. Supporting work from Noah Taylor, Brendan Gleeson, and (a scene chewing) Bill Paxton add sufficient distraction from the heavy action moments.So whether you enjoy special effects, intense action scenes, or just watching Tom Cruise get killed time and time again, you will probably find this one entertaining enough ... even though not much will stick with you a day later.
Greetings again from the darkness. Very fluffy, but actually quite fun and entertaining for a film that can appeal to all ages. Kids especially will get a kick out Steve Carell and the endless stream of animals. One must suspend all logical thoughts prior to entering the theatre ... such as 3 boys agreeing to help dad build a giant ark, when the entire universe is laughing at him/them.Morgan Freeman reprises his role as God and certainly few actors have had an easier time earning a paycheck. Freeman mostly smirks and smiles his way through the movie, always wearing all white ... and sometimes even a name tag! The comparisons to George Burns' God films are actually quite fun. While Burns and John Denver seem a bit dated now, the message really hasn't changed. One must face the scoffing masses if a stand is made for a belief ... doesn't matter if you are a Congressman (Carell) or a supermarket manager (Denver).Joel Cohen assisted director Steve Oederkirk on the story and certainly that explains some of the humorous bits, but mostly this is a film with a good heart, plenty of laughs and a nice message spelled ARK.
Greetings again from the darkness. I just can't believe it. Last year I was raving about Toy Story 3 being my favorite film of the year and now here I am again extolling the excellence of an animated feature. However, Rango is a different experience ... these are all new characters and a whole new look for animation. I would even say this is more a film for grown-ups than for kids, though kids will certainly get a kick out of Rango, a colorful chameleon energetically voiced by Johnny Depp.This story and film pays homage to many classic movies and especially to spaghetti westerns. You will easily spot the tributes to Star Wars, Apocalypse Now, Hunter S Thompson, Sergio Leone, Lee Van Cleef, Clint Eastwood, High Noon, and of course Chinatown. The main story line is nearly identical to Chinatown ... the control of a town's water. Here we get the Mayor, voiced by Ned Beatty, in the John Huston role. For film fans, this is just so much fun! Rango the chameleon is a very likable character who just wants to be liked. He dreams of being a hero so that people will look up to him. Of course, he learns the hard way what being a hero really means. The town of Dirt, the desert, and multitude of characters are all fantastically drawn. There are times the film has a look of live action with terrific lighting and detail.The voice acting in the film is truly outstanding and it starts with Depp's fine work. Also contributing are Ned Beatty (Mayor), Bill Nighy (Rattlesnake Jake), Isla Fisher, Abigail Breslin, Stephen Root, Alfred Molina (Armadillo), Ray Winstone, Charles Fleisher (from 1988 Roger Rabbit) and Timothy Olyphant as the Clint Eastwood character no-named Spirit of the West. There is also a useful and very funny Mariachi band that pops up periodically to push the story along.Director Gore Verbinski is known best for his Pirates of the Caribbean movies (with Depp) and he really gets to go all out on his visual style here. He is helped along by George Lucas' Industrial Light & Magic (ILM) and their first foray into animation. Heads up Pixar ... you have definitely have some tough competition!
Greetings again from the darkness. Much of Will Ferrell's box office success has occurred thanks to his collaborations with Adam McKay. This includes Step Brothers, Talladega Nights, and Anchorman. McKay's long history at Saturday Night Live is often on display in his movies, but never more than during The Other Guys. While there is some semblance of story, the film often has the feel of individual skits.The first skit involves two supercops played by Samuel L Jackson and Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson. Of course, the kicker is that they really aren't great cops, but masters of Public Relations. Will Ferrell and Mark Wahlberg are partners and the titular 'other guys'. We get minimal background on each but quickly understand that Ferrell's cop comes from accounting and is obsessed with regulations and safety. Wahlberg was a former rising star until an unfortunate accident involving Derek Jeter snuffed out his promotions.Obviously, there needs to be a super case that these two solve and it involves a corporate financing scheme with Steve Coogan. The story itself is really unimportant (luckily) and the humor is derived from individual moments between Ferrell and Wahlberg, that same duo and Eva Mendes, or scenes with Michael Keaton.There are a couple of running gags that work (hot girls are always hitting on Ferrell, Wahlberg's dancing, Keaton and TLC), and the best visual gag is an extended freeze frame montage set in a pub. It is pure comic genius. On the downside, I was really baffled as to the over-the-top approach taken by Mark Wahlberg. His anger and bitterness were so big that it has to be considered a spoof. However, if you try to view the film as a spoof, it just doesn't work (outside of Samuel L Jackson).Overall, this one has the laughs you would expect but is certainly not at the class of Anchorman. Comedy remains one of the most difficult film genres, and McKay remains one of our best hopes.
Greetings again from the darkness. This is no typical movie, so these will not be typical comments. In 2004, Shane Carruth became something of a cult hero with the Sundance Festival crowd when his debut film PRIMER won a Grand Jury Award. Nine years later, we get his follow-up ... the ultimate artsy, indie film for those who thrive on analysis and prefer to avoid a story ending wrapped up with a neat bow.These comments will not give you much, but I can tell you the screening had many viewers who left frustrated and confused. The fragmented narrative can be a bit disorienting and it avoids the usual staple of a resolution at the end. The audience knows more than the characters, yet the audience is baffled while the characters just continue on.The first segment of the film is when it's at its most traditional. We see Thief (Thiago Martins) perform some type of worm/parasite procedure that slowly brainwashes Kris (Amy Seimetz) or leads to mind control or loss of personality ... just depends how you prefer to describe it. We then see The Sampler (Andrew Sensenig) help her overcome thanks to a blood transfusion on his pig farm. Yes, really. Finally, Kris bonds with Jeff (Shane Carruth) as they seek to reassemble their lives and re-discover themselves. Watching them bicker over who belongs to what memory is frightening and fascinating. It makes you question the definition of personal identity, and what if we lost that (or it was stolen).Nature plays a huge role here, along with the connection to Thoreau's Walden. Many will use the term pretentious. Some will call it boring. Still others will be drawn in by the imagery and sound (or sometimes lack thereof). Shane Carruth does not fit Hollywood and neither do his films. He is a writer, producer, director, co-editor, cinematographer, and actor. He clearly has a love of the material and his choice of Amy Seimetz really makes the film work. She is outstanding (and also a filmmaker). The tired phrase "it's not for everyone" certainly applies here, but if you are a Terrence Malick fan or just enjoy being challenged by somewhat abstract themes, this one is worth a look.
Greetings again from the darkness. The downside to being an eternal movie optimist is that the falls can be very hard. I had hopes going in that this could be a sci-fi, alien-invasion, doomsday special effects flick that would deliver a few thrills and chills. Not. So. Much.The two best things I can say about the film are: 1. Aaron Eckhart has a great face for a grizzled Marine. 2. The film is loud. Loud and Noisy. If those don't sound like resounding endorsements, it's because I really, really, really disliked this movie.Aaron Eckhart gives it all he has as the 20 year Marine who has put in for retirement. He also has a somewhat gray mark on his record from his last assignment, where (rumor has it) he was responsible for the death of men in his command. That really ends the depth of the film. Eckhart gets dragged back into active duty when a meteor shower turns out to be an alien invasion.This ludicrous alien invasion is evidently for the earth's water. Somehow these aliens have run out of water on their planet, wherever that may be. They are smart enough for intergalactic travel and drone activity to minimize their own damage during the attack, but they can't figure out how to successfully take over Santa Monica from a hand full of Marines.I found myself laughing on more than one occasion and I am quite sure that director Jonathan Liebsesman and writer Christopher Bertolini had no visions of this being comical. It is supposed to be a blend of Independence Day, Cloverfield and War of the Worlds. It isn't in their league ... and I really didn't care much at all for two of those.Bridget Moynahan, Michael Pena and a couple of kids are tossed in to soften the military slant and try to bring some human touches, but none of it works. Neither does Michelle Rodriguez as ... SURPRISE ... a tough as nails soldier who displays heroic instincts. Seen that before? The aliens look like skinny Transformers. The camera work is god-awful. The special effects range from acceptable to laughable. The dialogue is limited to cool things like "look out", "heads-up", "in here", "that's an order" ...But mostly what this one is successful at is NOISE. Lots of noise. Lots of loud noise. So believe me when I scream ... STAY AWAY!
Greetings again from the darkness. The Sundance favorite is finally making the rounds and I found this to be a very entertaining and charming film, despite its relative simplicity.A semi-autobiographical piece from writer/director Garth Jennings ("The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy"), the film focuses on the escapades of two young boys making a movie. Along the way, many topics are addressed ... family, religion, friendship, loyalty, idol-worship, etc.Bill Milner (as Will Proudfoot) and Will Poulter (as Lee Carter) are the newcomers who play the boys. Poulter is a near reincarnation of River Phoenix as Chris Chambers ("Stand By Me") as he carries so much bottled up emotion stemming from his longing for attention. Milner's character is the more sensitive, creative type being suffocated by his family's religion. Quite a pair.As a commentary on film and celebrity, the two boy's world is rocked when their film-making is discovered. Now everyone wants a piece including the French exchange student, Didier, played hysterically well by Jules Sitruk. Character issues to follow! The boys are so endearing that most kids would enjoy the film and certainly most adults who were still growing up in the 80's will get a kick out of it.
Greetings again from the darkness. Coming-of-age teen dramas with a comedic flair that speak to that tumultuous period of life are rarely worthy of discussion. The exceptions hover film greatness: Rebel Without a Cause, Fast Times at Ridgemont High, Dazed and Confused, The Breakfast Club, and Say Anything ... Along comes young director James Ponsoldt and his adaptation of Tim Tharp's novel. While not perfect and falling just short of the level of those classics, it is nonetheless a welcome addition and quite interesting.It's tempting to call Sutter (played by up-and-comer Miles Teller) a happy-go-lucky kid. He's the frat boy type - quick with a quip, smooth with the parents and girls, and the envy of the masses. That term would be misapplied to a kid who not only is never without his flask, but also gives them as gifts. He uses his wit and booze to dull the pain of his aimless existence. We see his lackadaisical efforts at completing a college admission form, and it's used as a plot device to track Sutter's progression through the film.Brie Larson is terrific as Sutter's perfect match ... right up until she decides that his philosophy of living in the now (even spectacularly) doesn't leave hope for much of a future. After an extreme night of drinking and partying, Sutter gets awakened while laying in a neighbor's front yard. Shailene Woodley (The Descendants) is Aimee Finicky who recognizes the popular Sutter, even though he has no idea who she is. Slowly, the two connect on a level previously unknown to either ... some good, some not so wise (just like real teenagers).This couple of opposites learn much from each other, and soon enough, Sutter is confronting his long last father (Kyle Chandler). No real surprises what he discovers, but it's a life lesson that must be learned. Sutter seeks more from his remaining family - a big sister (Mary Elizabeth Winstead) who escaped the grind, and a workaholic mom (Jennifer Jason Leigh) doing her best to provide hope for Sutter.The script is co-written by Scott Neustadter and Michael Weber who also wrote (500) Days of Summer. John Hughes and Cameron Crowe proved they could present teen dilemmas in an entertaining way, and this one follows the same structure. This is a dialogue-heavy story as Sutter and Aimee struggle alone and together to figure out life's next steps.I will say that for the first few minutes of the movie, I found Sutter to be the kind of guy that I would typically have no interest in. Tip of the cap to the filmmakers and Miles Teller for turning that around. It should also be noted that Shailene Woodley is so naturally affecting, that her character never comes across as anything but sincere. Given the state of today's mainstream coming of age stories, this one definitely deserves a look and could gather some attention come awards time.
Greetings again from the darkness. Ben Affleck proved himself to be a talented director with "Gone Baby Gone". Here, he once again shows he is best suited behind the camera. He has a real feel for setting, scenery, actors and camera angles. Unfortunately, this story based on the Chuck Hogan novel "Prince of Thieves" is just a bit too formulaic to stand out from the crowd.We are told upfront that the Boston neighborhood of Charlestown has more bank robbers than any other ... in fact, in some families it is a proud tradition, passed on to the next generation. Ben Affleck got the guide book from his dad - an incarcerated Chris Cooper who has only one scene, though it's very dramatic. Affleck's lifelong pal and crime partner is played by Jeremy Renner. Renner's character, Jem, is downright psychotic to Affleck's Mr. Sensitive. If after "Hurt Locker" you have a difficult time imagining Renner as a bad guy, you should check out "North Country". That's a very bad man.As seen in the preview, Affleck's merry band of bank robbers take a hostage played by Rebecca Hall ("Vicky Cristina Barcelona"). Affleck, in the course of duty, falls for Hall. She is the light that shows him the way to a better life. Unfortunately, that story line leads us right back to more crime ... with FBI mad man Jon Hamm hot on the heals of the local bad boys.The neighborhood crime lord, played superbly by Pete Postlethwaite, controls the every move of the gang and takes his "fair" share while leading through intimidation - all while trimming roses! Renner's sister and Affleck's previous squeeze is played alarmingly (and surprisingly) well by Blake Lively. She appears to have a nice little career ahead of her.The frustrating thing with this film is that we have seen it all before, just without the heavy bean-town accents. Tons of automatic weaponry lead to very few actual injuries or deaths - always the sign of a cheesy shootout. The finale for Renner, Hall and Affleck are all advertised well in advance of the actual occurrence, which pretty much ends the suspense. On the bright side, the film is well made and entertaining enough. For a much better film on the culture of local/family crime check out "Animal Kingdom".
Greetings again from the darkness. A brilliant piece of marketing for what actually is no more than a film school project, "Catfish" can be analyzed from many perspectives. What I can't do is put any of those perspectives in written form without taking away from the marketing gimmick of not letting someone tell you what happens.Make no mistake, this is not a thriller by any stretch. It's not even particularly well made as a film. It is, all skepticism aside, a documentary made by some 30-ish guys from a Manhattan loft office. Their film is based on interactions with a Michigan family after they receive a painting of one of their web-posted photos. The artist is an 8 year old girl named Abby. The photographer is Nev Schulman.Nev and Abby begin corresponding through Facebook. The correspondence spins off to include Abby's 19 year old sister Megan, and their mother Angela. What is unclear is whether Nev and his filming co-horts (Ariel and Henry) are as naive as they appear or whether they smell a real story. Either way, they continue on with the back-and-forth until a real cyber-romance blossoms between Nev and Megan.Next, we find our boys in Vail and they decide to "stop by" Michigan on their way back to New York. And don't we all just love surprise home visits from strangers? What follows is the core of the film and some insight into human nature. The reactions of all parties may surprise you, but there are no major plot twists involved if you have been paying attention.There were only two ways this mystery could go and neither is all that interesting. What we really see is that there are lonely people out there. There are naive people out there. Neither of these type of people are necessarily bad. I believe this film is every bit as insightful into the real Facebook as "The Social Network" is. The only difference is that movie tells the story of those who built it, while this one tells the story of those who use it.
Greetings again from the darkness. Michael Caine (at age 77) is like a favorite blanket ... it just feels good to have him around. He always delivers a fine performance, and sometimes he puts it all together to provide proof of just what an outstanding actor he really is. Harry Brown is one of those films.Some will take this as a revenge story in line with Bronson's Death Wish, but I see it more in the vein of Gran Torino. Caine's Brown is not just after revenge for his buddy Leonard's murder, but more importantly, he is trying to make a stand - to take back his neighborhood stolen by drug dealers and vicious punks.Unfortunately for the film, a first time director (Daniel Barber) and a miscast Emily Mortimer don't have the strength to keep up with Mr. Caine. Mortimer plays her detective role as if she is more of a social worker. It is actually painful to watch her. On the other hand, Ben Drew has a key role as Noel, a sinister punk lacking a conscience. His scenes with Caine are pretty intense.The best scene of the film is when Harry Brown ventures inside a drug dealer's lair to purchase a gun for his crusade. Caine must pull off the necessary subtlety and play it close to the vest in this quite volatile situation. Of course, not everything goes to plan and Caine's character really takes off from there.We are treated to the expected police department politics and the back-stabbing/not-who-I-thought-you-were character, but mostly this is one man's mission to make things right and better. Who better than Michael Caine for that job?
Greetings again from the darkness. Despite this being a massive hunk of Hollywood cheese and mostly fictitious re-telling of the Motown backroom, this one is a bit of fun with a couple of outstanding vocal performances along the way.The basic story revolves around the beginning of group similar to the Supremes and the slick production of Berry Gordy's Motown and the packaging of this mainstream black girl band so that white audiences would buy in. Part of this packaging involved the promotion to front and center of the more beautiful, charismatic (and whiter) Beyonce (Deean) over the more talented Jennifer Hudson (Effe). Not too subtle in the similarities to the real Supremes, but it is fun to watch Beyonce evolve into the diva (even though the excess of Diana Ross is downplayed). Jamie Foxx doesn't really capture the charm and sleaze necessary for his role ... we never really see why these artists trust him in the first place.Eddie Murphy steals his scenes as James "Thunder" Early (a slightly toned down James Brown) and he brings some much needed levity to the film when it gets a little too self-indulgent. Other nice supporting work by Danny Glover, Keith Robinson and the "Boston Public" duo of Sharon Leal and Loretta Devine.Make no mistake, this is Jennifer Hudson's film. She has two blow-the-doors-off songs, especially "And I'M Telling You I'm Not Going". Should be nominated for best song. Ms. Hudson is an amazing singer, but has a ways to go in the acting dept. Luckily the quasi-musical approach makes it easier on her.The film probably has a couple too many musical numbers and some run a bit long. Because of this, the story suffers a bit. It is, however, definitely worth seeing for the Jennifer Hudson and Beyonce vocals.
Greetings again from the darkness. This won the Best Foreign Film Oscar and deservedly so. A very gripping story with interesting characters and powerful, yet subtle performances.The three lead characters are each fascinating in such differing ways. Georg is a playwright/poet who does and says all the right things but ends up having his every move "watched" because a powerful politician lusts after his girlfriend. Georg is played wonderfully by Sebastian Koch, who was also excellent in this years' "Black Book" ... a must see for those who enjoyed this film.Georg's girlfriend, Christa, is played by Martina Gedeck (terrific in 2001 "Mostly Martha"). The subtleties of this performance can probably only be truly appreciated upon numerous viewings.The most interesting of all the characters is HGW, played convincingly and chillingly by Ulrich Muhe. A no-nonsense, black and white loyalist who slowly and ironically comes to appreciate life by spying on those who are a threat to liberty.This story is so complex, yet so easy to follow ... it is an example of brilliant writing and direction. These days when so many films strive for intelligence and fall short at the end, here is a film that actually gets better for 2 hours until an almost excruciating final 10 minutes and stunning final scene. Top notch film making.
Greetings again from the darkness. "An indie gem" is meant to be a term of respect for a little movie that manages to make an emotional connection, usually while being screened at a film festival or in a very limited and brief theatrical run. The best ones drive us to encourage everyone we know to take the time to see it. Such is writer/director Destin Cretton's latest.Some movies offer a promising premise and then let us down with faulty execution. Short Term 12 is actually better than its premise would lead you to expect. Credit goes to Mr. Cretton's quasi-documentary directorial style, tremendous acting from support characters played by John Gallagher Jr (Mason), Kaitlyn Dever (Jayden), and Keith Stanfield (Marcus), and a stunning lead performance from rising star Brie Larson (Grace).Grace and Mason help run a foster care facility. We witness first hand their daily work with the kids, some of it quite mundane ... though other moments incredibly powerful. Grace and Marcus have their own personal connections to this way of life, and also happen to be in a relationship that seems built on avoiding the communication and connection that goes into their daily jobs.The use of art as a communication device plays a role throughout. Marcus uses his rap lyrics, newcomer Jayden draws and writes children's stories. These two kids are particularly important because they also mirror the inner sanctum of Mason and Grace, and we see these people all battle demons in hope of living a "normal" life. This is not a story of saints and sinners ... these are just people coming to grip with the deck they've been dealt.You will recognize Gallagher from his work on HBO's "Newsroom", and Dever made quite an impression in her time on "Justified". Larson's star is on the rise thanks to her presence in The Spectacular Now and Don Jon, as well as some upcoming projects. She IS what critics have been trying make Greta Gerwig ... an actress who breathes life into character we feel we know.
Greetings again from the darkness. My comments about last week's "Devil" dwelled on the aspect of claustrophobia in being stranded in a stuck elevator with strangers. Forget all that! In this compelling film, Ryan Reynolds wakes up in an enclosed coffin. With a head injury. Buried. In Iraq. With a cell phone. And a lighter. This takes claustrophobia and anxiety attacks to a whole new level.Somehow writer Chris Sparling, director Rodrigo Cortes and Ryan Reynolds all bought off on the idea that the ENTIRE FILM should be shot from within the coffin. That's correct. There are no flashbacks to Paul's (Ryan Reynolds) home life or the convoy ambush. There are no scenes of the FBI working the phones. There are no scenes of the kidnappers in some darkened basement. None of that. Just Reynolds in his wooden coffin.Paul Conroy, an American contractor working in Iraq, wakes up in a coffin. His kidnappers have provided a cell phone and inform him that he will be released only if they are paid "5 million money". Paul spends the rest of the film frantically trying to arrange for the ransom by contacting his family, his employer, the FBI and the State Department. I will say no more other than I found my breathing getting quick and shallow and my palms sweaty just watching the plight of this unfortunate man.There are no outside scenes, not counting a very short, disturbing video the kidnappers send him through the cell phone. The phone conversations are fascinating. You will voice-recognize the great Stephen Tobolowsky as the personnel director performing some quick legal ass-covering. You might also recognize the voice of Tess Harper as Maryann - presumable the mother of Paul's wife as he tries to make contact. Neither of these are warm fuzzies, but both add to the heightened stress level and desperation.This is not really a film we would want to watch a second time, but interesting enough, I could see it becoming a cult fixture similar to Rocky Horror. The audience could show up with their cell phone, a lighter, a flask and a couple of other props that I won't disclose here. Sometimes the best way to handle fear is to laugh in its face. Oh, and answer your cell when loved one's call. Lastly ... I don't want to be buried alive.
Greetings again from the darkness. Andy Warhol and The Factory poses quite the challenge to any filmmaker attempting to capture the look, feel and pain of that world unto itself. Director George Hickenlooper's best work has been "Mayor of Sunset Strip" and "Dogtown", neither of which drew much of an audience. "Factory Girl" probably has little hope of attracting much attention from movie-goers as well.While we do spend a good portion of the film in The Factory, this is more the tragic story of Edie, rather than an insightful look at Warhol's art. Edie was really the first to make being famous a job ... think Paris Hilton today. No real talent herself, her name, family money and looks got her inside the art world and exceptionally close to Warhol. Of course, those things were not enough to carve out any real territory and the ending, while tragic, is not at all surprising.The film is overly choppy in attempting to find the right look and feel and yet with Jagger, Velvet Underground and the Dylanesque Hayden Christensen, the importance and power of music for this era is clearly established. Aussie Guy Pearce does a nice impersonation of Warhol and Jimmy Fallon has his first serious role. Other support comes from Mena Suvari as Edie's friend, Beth Grant as Warhol's mom, Don Novello (Father Guido from early SNL), and Illeana Douglas as Diana Vreeland.By far the best part of this project is the performance of Sienna Miller as Edie Sedgwick. Even her vocal cadence is remarkable. The physical and emotional turmoil seems very real as Edie goes from top of world to desperation for life. Ms. Miller will at some point break out and become the film star she is destined to become. That role has just not quite happened yet. It could be later this year when she re-teams with her "Layer Cake" director. Let's hope so. Her talent is undeniable and although it is a pleasure to see her performance as Edie, she deserves a much wider audience.The weakness of the film is best shown by the interviews over the closing credits. Attempting to explain what we had just watched is a pure indication that the job had not been done well.
Greetings again from the darkness. Absolutely stunning performance from the beautiful Michelle Williams, who somehow doesn't look beautiful here and is very believable as the on-the-road loner in search of salvation at a cannery in Alaska. What doesn't work is everything else.I understand the minimalist approach, but this story doesn't differ much from if you asked a junior high student to write a story about running away from home with her dog. Sure the serpentine belt wouldn't get mentioned, but losing the dog, even if only momentarily, would probably be a sub-plot.Don't misunderstand. It is a very well shot film and realistic to the point of dread, but we are never really provided any reason to care about Wendy or Lucy ... other than basic human caring.Will Patton adds a nice, but brief, touch as the auto mechanic and Wally Dalton somehow captured my interest more than Wendy. For the full impact, you have to know that Wally Dalton plays a Walgreens security guard who stares at the parking lot for 12 hours a day.Michelle Williams deserves the kudos for her performance, but I believe the film itself is much overrated.
Greetings again from the darkness. Based on the best-selling 1974 John LeCarre' spy novel, opinions on this movie will cover the full spectrum. Many will find it painfully slow and impossible to follow. Others will be thrilled with the subtle clues and reality-based exchanges between British spies in the early 70's. This is no James Bond thriller with exploding yachts, world class fist fights and bikini-clad women. Rather, it's a peek at what real life spies do ... huddle in soundproof rooms and exchange information through stunted conversation where just shy of enough is said.John LeCarre' actually worked for the British Secret Service prior to becoming an author (also wrote "The Constant Gardener" and "The Russia House"). He based the story around when a traitor was uncovered during the biggest scandal in the history of British intelligence. This story covers some of that and even more. We see how trust and loyalty are so crucial, yet none of these men ever fully trusts the fellow agent sitting next to him. Very little is spoken, but much is communicated through a nod, raised eye brow, a slight cock of the head, or even the adjustment of one's spectacles. Cigarettes and scotch are the common ground from which discussions spring.Director Tomas Alfredson is from Sweden and delivered the exceptional vampire drama "Let the Right One In" a couple of years ago. Mr. Alfredson has a distinctive feel for the look of a film, and atmospheric is a word that fits this movie, as well as his earlier one. The tone, color and texture is key to this world and we are immersed in blues and grays. His camera work is unique and wondrous as he massages the small, confined spaces and allow us to pick up the gestures of all involved.The cast is a group of wonderfully talented (mostly) men: Mark Strong, John Hurt (Control), Toby Jones (Tinker), Colin Firth (Tailor), Ciaran Hinds (Soldier), David Dencik (Poor Man)and Stephen Graham. Especially enjoyable are Tom Hardy as a rogue agent who breaks the "mole" theory wide open, Benedict Cumberbatch as the youngest agent, and of course, Gary Oldman as George Smiley. Oldman's performance will awe many and bore a few. This is a man trained to say only what must be said. You can see the resolve in his eyes. These still waters run VERY deep. Some will compare him to the performance of Sir Alec Guiness in the BBC production, and both terrific and strong.While a rousing recommendation would be nice, it's just not in the cards. This movie will have a very specific audience ... those who thrive on mental jigsaw puzzles and are inspired by juggling an endless stream of characters and possible plots. If that describes you, then get in line on opening day.
Greetings again from the darkness. From the opening scene it is clear we aren't in for a typically lame rom-com with caricatures instead of characters and punchlines instead of feelings. Instead, this one is all about the characters and their feelings ... realistic feelings of pain, anger, hope and frustration. Now don't misunderstand. It doesn't go too deep and there is still plenty of humor in the moments.Cal (Steve Carell) and Emily (Julianne Moore) are sharing one of their many restaurant moments over the course of their long, steady marriage. Only this time, something spoils the comfort zone. Emily says she wants a divorce and later tells Cal that she had an affair with a co-worker (Kevin Bacon). What follows is as close to real life reactions as we could ever hope for in a rom-com. Cal is hurt. The kids are angry. Emily is confused. Their friends take sides.The intertwining story lines and characters are both sad and funny. We see how people react when they are attracted to others ... or not. We see how people react when they wonder if their decision was rash. We see how basically nice people try to do the right thing for themselves and others, but still mess it up sometimes.After moving out, Cal heads to a local upscale lounge that seems to be stocked with gorgeous women and only a handful of men ... every night. In real life, the line of men waiting to enter would be wrapped around the block. Still, one of the regulars is Jacob, played by Ryan Gosling. He is a thing of beauty to look at it and always quick with just the right line. His science is making women believe he cares about nothing but them. Cal is discouraged by Jacob's incredible success rate. Jacob notices Cal's negative vibe and agrees to train him. But first, the makeover ... wardrobe, haircut and conversation skills.The polar opposite effect of what you might expect from Hollywood - these nice people begin to question their direction. Cal longs for Emily. Emily still thinks about Cal, but dates her co-worker. The son (Jonah Bobo) has a crush on the older baby-sitter, who has a crush of her own. Even Jacob falls hard for new attorney Hannah (Emma Stone) who has just walked out on her wet rag boyfriend (Josh Groban) who offered her a job, rather than a ring. Oh what a tangled web we weave. And that's just the stuff I can tell you! Cal's first conquest utilizing his newly learned skills is a teacher played with full energy by the terrific Marisa Tomei. She only has a couple of scenes, but as usual, Ms. Tomei makes the most of her screen time. The baby sitter is played well by Analeigh Tipton, but it's interesting to note (in real life) she is 3 days younger than law school grad Hannah (Stone).All of the actors are top notch here. Steve Carell continues to get better ... this is a superior movie to Date Night (with Tina Fey). Julianne Moore is solid, though her character is mostly mopey. Ryan Gosling and Emma Stone are both outstanding. Gosling is none for mostly offbeat, dark independent films but shows again how easily he slides back into sex symbol. Ms. Stone is headed for super-stardom. She was really good in Easy A and has a star-making turn in the upcoming film The Help. After that, it's on to the new Spider-Man for her.Glenn Ficarra and John Requa are the co-directors and were responsible for the much less mainstream I Love You Phillip Morris, with Jim Carrey and Ewan McGregor. Surprisingly the film was written by Dan Fogelman, who is known for his script writing on the animated Cars movies.No question women will enjoy the film, but the surprise is, many men will relate to what's going on with the Steve Carell and Ryan Gosling characters. There is enough humor to keep everyone happy and enough strong writing to say this is a very good movie.
Greetings again from the darkness. I make no apologies for my tendency to have higher expectations and be more demanding of documentaries than other films. When dealing with a real subject, event or person, there is no place for fabrication or embellishment. The truth must stand (and entertain) on its own. Filmmaker Malik Bendjelloul has no such issue given his fascinating, almost jaw-dropping story of musician Sixto Rodriguez.Described as Dylan-esque, Rodriguez was a folk singer and songwriter who put out two albums: Cold Fact (1970) and Comng from Reality (1971). Despite critical raves, the album sales were minimal and Sussex/A&R dropped him. After that, the story got a bit hazy. Urban Legend had Rodriguez dousing himself with gasoline while onstage, and committing suicide by lighting himself up. Mostly he just seemed to disappear, not simply fade away.Nearly incomprehensible in today's age of internet communication, the Rodriguez songs became anthems for the anti-apartheid whites in South Africa. The music reached the country through bootleg copies and the popularity grew. We meet a Cape Town record store owner and indie music supporter names Stephen Segerman who describes Rodriguez as "bigger than Elvis" in South Africa. In the late 1990's a world wide web manhunt began.What happens after that ... I will leave it to the film. Just know that this documentary is a blend of Mystery, Intrigue, Urban Legend, Who-done-it, and Where are they now? There is a brief interview with Clarence Avant, the owner of now-defunct Sussex Records, during which he provides the only real insight into the music industry underbelly. Additionally, so much of the story goes unexplained. So many questions unanswered ... even unasked! However, the story itself, and Rodriguez the man, are so amazing, that the entertainment and intellectual value of the film remains intact.Since the vast majority (99% plus) of us have never previously heard of Rodriguez, the film does a nice job of integrating his songs in a manner that allows us to get a real understanding for the musical genius and why the critics (and South Africa) fell hard for it. This is a fascinating story and captivating film, despite lacking in "the rest of the story" department.
Greetings again from the darkness. The movie begins with a tip of the cap to the Brothers Grimm fairy tale and then spins off into what would be just another episode of TV's "Once Upon a Time", were it a cable rather than a network show.The original fairy tale is a nightmare for most kids (probably explains why it's one of my favorites). Hansel and Gretel are deserted in the forest by their parents, and end up at a scrumptious house of candy owned by a witch who eats children. The movie puts an interesting spin on why the parents got rid of the kids, but mostly this story begins after Hansel and Gretel outsmart the candy house witch. This leads them into a joint career of bounty-hunting for witches.Jeremy Renner (The Hurt Locker, The Avengers) plays Hansel and Gemma Arterton (Tamara Drewe, Bond Girl in Casino Royale) plays Gretel. They have some pretty nifty weapons given that it's the middle ages. Mostly they take turns getting the stuffing kicked out of them by witches and jealous sheriffs.There is a good witch and bad witch element as well as a discovery of their childhood roots. That said, the plot and story are secondary thanks to writer/director Tommy Wickola who seems to find the most joy in exploding witch heads and bodies. The 3D seems pretty sloppy and forced with no added benefit. A couple of humorous additions involve Hansel's struggle with diabetes (thanks to the candy house), the missing kid notices on milk bottles, and the multi-dimensional troll Edward ... he's no Shrek, but it doesn't take much personality to stand out here.Will Ferrell and Adam McKay are listed as producers and that explains the attempts at humor throughout. It's too bad the overkill on gore and profanity prevent this from being an intelligent spin off from one of the best ever fairy tales.
Greetings again from the darkness. The closest I can come to saying anything negative about the film is that it is a bit predictable. That said, it is quite an entertaining ride to take with some of Britain's best actors. Filled with both comedy and insight, the Ol Parker script of the Deborah Moggach novel ("These Foolish Things") may be the jump start to a new film genre ... gray cinema.In the pre-opening credit sequence, we get introductions to seven Brits who are at a crossroads in life ... each past the career stage (either voluntarily or otherwise) but not ready to disappear into a meaningless existence waiting to die. They each respond to an advertisement for a hotel in Jaipur, India which caters to the "elderly and beautiful". Its biggest selling point may be the low cost of retirement. Still, it's an adventure of the scale most of our heroes have never taken.We meet Evelyn (Judi Dench) as the recent widow who discovers her beloved husband left her a mountain of debt; Douglas and Jean (Bill Nighy and Penelope Wilton) a hapless married couple who have invested their savings into their daughter's internet company; Muriel (Maggie Smith) is a racist career nanny and housekeeper for the rich who has been put out to pasture in need of a new hip; Graham (Tom Wilkinson) is a high court judge who is fed up with responsibility and seeking to reconnect with a long ago lover; Madge (Celia Imrie) and Norman (Ronald Pickup) are the lonely hearts looking for love, or in his case, loving.They arrive at the Indian resort to be met by its proprietor Sonny, a wildly exuberant and overly optimistic Dev Patel (Slumdog Millionaire). Sonny has inherited the rundown property from his father and has huge dreams of turning it into a showplace for retirees from abroad ... he literally wants to outsource old age for all the countries who have no use for the elderly. A sad truth for both the English and Americans.The joy of the story comes from the transformation of each of the characters as they slowly discover more about the country and, in turn, more about themselves. Graham's discovery is especially touching, while Jean's takes a proverbial slap in the face from her long-suffering, quasi-henpecked husband Douglas. Even young Sonny learns about life decisions thanks to his guests and the actions of his mother and girlfriend.With the general population aging, expect to see more films in this vein ... aimed at the age group who is approaching the crossroads, but not yet ready to give up living. Director John Madden (Shakespeare in Love) has delivered a charming seriocomedy, but I expect others will take a more in-depth and analytical view at some point.
Greetings again from the darkness. A Rom-Com for the 50-ish crowd is pretty darn rare. But then, writer/director Nicole Holofcener doesn't deliver the typical rom-com filled with lame punchlines and perfectly chiseled actors. Instead, James Gandolfini and Julia Louis-Dreyfuss come across as real people with the expected defense mode and vulnerabilities as they try to find intimacy and a personal connection.Albert (Gandolfini) and Eva (Louis-Dreyfuss) meet at a party and subtle sparks fly as both claim they aren't attracted to anyone at the party. While at the party, Eva, a massage therapist, also meets Marianne (Catherine Keener), a charming poet who wants to hire Eva to help ease her shoulder pain. Albert and Eva begin dating, and Eva slowly comes around on Albert's grounded and funny personality. Sure he's a bit overweight and somewhat slobby, but he treats her well and adores her. Meanwhile, Eva's massage work on Marianne expose her to Marianne's incessant complaining about her overweight and somewhat slobby ex-husband. Yep. This causes quite the dilemma for Eva because she likes Albert and she envies Marianne's cool lifestyle. Oh and both Eva and Albert have teenage daughters getting ready to go off to college, so the couple also share parent-child separation anxiety.The story clearly centers around Eva, and it's nice to see Louis-Dreyfuss back down a little and avoid some of her sitcom standard moves. We are able to relate to Eva and though we see the corner she is backing herself in to, we also understand how a little bit of poor judgment can spin out of control. Although this is Eva's story, the real heart of the film is delivered by Gandolfini's performance. This is no Tony Soprano ... this is a real guy ... a nice guy ... yes, even a sweet guy.Ms. Holofcener has set her precedent with snippy banter from intelligent characters with her previous films Please Give (2010) and Friends With Money (2006), the former I liked very much and the latter I cared little for. This time, all of her characters and their dialogue ring true and are relatable. Eva's married friends are played by Toni Collette and Ben Falcone (married in real life to Melissa McCarthy) and they have the only hollow sub-plot with their should we or should we not fire the maid dilemma. The two teenage daughters are played by Tracey Fairaway and Eve Hewson (Bono's daughter) and both have scenes that really strike a chord and ring true.Mr. Gandolfini passed away earlier this year and there was the thought that this would be his final released film. However, it's been decided that Animal Rescue will be finalized and released in 2014. It's difficult to watch him and not think what could have been over the next few years, though his legacy is quite secure. His range was much greater than many give him credit for, and I would recommend watching him in both True Romance (1993) and Welcome to the Rileys (2010).
Greetings again from the darkness. Most movies that take place in a confined space are outright thrillers that usually take full advantage of helpless feelings and desperate actions. Think back to Duel, Phone Booth and Buried. A ticking clock and lack of a safe escape route had us sweating bullets with Dennis Weaver, Colin Farrell and Ryan Reynolds. This entry from the Dallas International Film Festival takes a much different approach.Noted British writer Steven Knight also directs this one, and rather than nail-biting tension, we get a pretty interesting character study. Mr. Knight has written some impressive screenplays: Dirty Pretty Things, Amazing Grace, and Eastern Promises. Utilizing every ounce of his writing expertise, he keeps us connected to Ivan Locke (Tom Hardy) as he drives on the freeway with intermittent rain being his biggest physical obstacle. There are no high speed chases. No stunts. No weapons. Ivan is not being followed by a spy or anyone else. He is merely driving and talking on the phone via Bluetooth.In what could be considered the ultimate film gimmick, Tom Hardy is the only actor to appear on screen. His Ivan Locke is not just the only major character. He is the ONLY one. All supporting work and conflict is provided by a multitude of voices on the other end of a phone call. There is no need for me to delve into the story or the plot, but you should know that the situation Ivan finds himself in is not some creative web of criminal deceit ... instead it's his penance for one poor decision. That poor decision has him in a tough spot with very poor timing.For those that wonder if Bane from The Dark Knight Rises has the acting chops to hold our attention, a reminder of Tom Hardy's fine work should alleviate concerns: Warrior, Inception, Lawless, Bronson, Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy. He can act and he can make a character his own, just as he does with Ivan Locke.
Greetings again from the darkness. Director Steve James is well known for his heralded documentary Hoop Dreams, released 20 years ago. Film Critic Roger Ebert was one of that film's earliest and loudest champions. Now, Mr. James returns the favor with a tribute to the life of Roger Ebert, based on the memoir of the same name.James struggles a bit with the film's structure because there is so much story to Ebert's life, but the director's access to the challenges faced by Ebert during his last months of life make for a story unto itself. No punches are pulled, and this is one of the most head-on presentations of illness and dying that we have ever witnessed on screen. Ebert's cancer took his jaw and his recognizable voice, but this man would not be silenced. He took to social media and blogging to become even more relevant than ever before.It's fun to see the love-hate relationship between Ebert and his TV co-host Gene Siskel. I was fortunate enough to be exposed to them via PBS in 1975, their first year broadcasting together. I've said it before, but these two guys taught me how to watch a movie ... how to appreciate what story was being told, and how it was being told. Their brief verbal jousts showed me that opinions can vary widely on movies and that it's not just OK, but actually fun to debate the merits.As much fun as their show was, what I really enjoyed was reading their full reviews in the Chicago papers. My trips to the library were often for the sole purpose of digging out the latest reviews. Whle I more often agreed with Siskel, it was Ebert stunning writing skills that really hit home with me. It wasn't until many years later that I learned he won a Pulitzer at age 26, and had grown up as a journalist. His words could translate what his senses took in.Because of all that, this documentary is very personal to me ... as I'm sure it is to the entire community of film lovers that Siskel and/or Ebert inspired. The interviews with Werner Herzog, Martin Scorsese and Errol Morris clearly display the impact of Ebert. But as personal as it is to these men as filmmakers and to me as a movie blogger, that's nothing like the personal level we witness between Roger and Chaz, his wife. Roger's health issues and numerous operations and rehabilitation stints show the courage and love of these two. This was hear-warming and gut-wrenching all at the same time ... the kind of movie that Roger would have given a big thumbs up.
Greetings again from the darkness. The bar has been set with buddy flicks that mix comedy and action ... Lethal Weapon and 48 Hours. The vast majority, including this one, fall short even while blatantly copying many elements from those classics. Guns blazing, rapid-fire repartee and huge explosions are requirements in this genre, as is an on screen bond between the two leads.The good news is that instead of the original (tired) pairing of Vince Vaughn and Owen Wilson, we get Denzel Washington and Mark Wahlberg. Denzel plays the straight man role just fine, but Wahlberg is way over the top. He is in his typical strained-too loud-frenzied talking mode that just comes across as trying too hard. Instead of a truckin' t-shirt, he should have worn one that said 'kiss me I'm cute and funny'.For some reason, most of these movies make the mistake of not providing a fully developed and menacing villain. Somehow the script manages to waste the great Edward James Olmos as a drug lord. He does what he can with what he's given, but it's frustrating to see him become the punchline of lame joke. Bill Paxton seems to be the only one who was given much to work with in the script and he chews the scenery every chance he gets. We also get a quick scene with Fred Ward and I think we would all rather have more from him here and less from the generic James Marsden. Of course, all of these movies require the presence of a female and in this case we get Paula Patton, who not only suffers through horrific dialogue, but also some absurd gratuitous nudity.As you might guess from the trailer, corruption and double-crosses abound, and the Denzel/Wahlberg duo produces a few sparks, but this script based on the Boom! graphic novel just doesn't hold up for a feature length movie. Icelandic director Baltasar Kurmakur, whose previous outing was the ultra-serious action drama Contraband (also with Wahlberg) falls victim to the weak dialogue and inconsistent villainy.
Greetings again from the darkness. The pursuit of greatness is not always pretty. No matter if your dream is athletics, dancing, music or some other; you can be sure hard work and sacrifice will be part of your routine. You will likely have a mentor, teacher or coach whose job is to cultivate your skills while pushing you to new limits. This film questions whether the best approach is intimidation or society's current preferred method of nurturing.Miles Teller plays Andrew, a first year student at an elite Manhattan music conservatory. Andrew dreams of being a great jazz drummer in the vein of Buddy Rich. When offered a rare shot at the top ensemble, Andrew quickly discovers the conductor is a breed unlike anything he has ever encountered. The best movie comparison I can offer for JK Simmons' portrayal of Terence Fletcher is R Lee Ermey's Drill Instructor in Full Metal Jacket. This is no Mr Holland's Opus. Fletcher bullies, intimidates, humiliates and uses every imaginable form of verbal abuse to push his musicians, and especially young Andrew, to reach for greater heights.Andrew and Fletcher go head to head through the entire movie, with Fletcher's mental torment turning this into a psychological thriller ... albeit with tremendous music. We witness Andrew shut out all pieces of a personal life, and even take on some of Fletcher's less desirable traits. Andrew's diner break-up with his girlfriend (Melissa Benoist) is much shorter, but just as cold as the infamous opening scene in The Social Network. At a small dinner party, Andrew loses some of the sweetness he inherited from his dad (Paul Reiser), and unloads some Fletcherisms on some unsuspecting family friends.Writer/Director Damien Chazelle has turned his Sundance award-winning short film into a fascinatingly brutal message movie that begs for discussion and debate. The open-ended approach is brilliant, though I found myself initially upset at the missing clean wrap that Hollywood so often provides. What price greatness? Is comeuppance a reward? Are mentors cruel to be kind? For the past few years, I have been proclaiming that Miles Teller (The Spectacular Now) is the next John Cusack. Perhaps that bar is too low. Teller just gets better with each film. His relentless energy draws us in, and we find ourselves in his corner ... even though this time, he's not the greatest guy himself. Still, as strong as Teller is, the film is owned by JK Simmons. Most think of him as the dad in Juno, or the ever-present insurance spokesman on TV, but he previously flashed his bad side as the white supremacist in "Oz". Even that, doesn't prepare us for Simmons' powerhouse performance ... just enough humanity to heighten his psychological torturing of musicians.You should see this one for Simmons' performance. Or see it for the up and coming Teller. Enjoy the terrific music, especially Duke Ellington's "Caravan". See it for the talking points about teachers, society and personal greatness. See it for any or all these reasons - just don't tell director Damien Chazelle "good job".
Greetings again from the darkness. Director Cameron Crowe has finally emerged from his cocoon - 7 years after the abysmal Elizabethtown. Yes, he has had a couple of projects in that time, notably the Pearl Jam documentary, but he has avoided anything related to his dramatic film roots of which produced "Say Anything", "Jerry Maguire" and "Almost Famous". This time he delivers a feel good, family appropriate, sentimental crowd-pleaser that should play very well to the holiday crowd.Please know I do not use "sentimental" as a derogatory term. Sure there are moments where the actions and dialogue seem contrived and manipulative, but some of the best crowd-pleasers throughout Hollywood history have these same traits. This film is based on a true story and uses Benjamin Mee's autobiographical book as the basic source material. The real Mee family and their zoo, are stationed in England, not southern California as Crowe presents them. What I can tell you is that this version of the Mee family and the zoo staff is interesting and entertaining, even if you just have to let go and allow yourself to be guided through.Matt Damon plays Benjamin Mee and the story picks up after his wife dies. He soon quits his job and moves his two kids to the country so they can work through their grief and start fresh. His teenage son Dylan is played with blazing anger by the talented Colin Ford. The precocious 7 year old daughter is played by scene-stealer Maggie Elizabeth Jones. This family experiences the realities of struggling with their pain and difficulties in communicating.As for the zoo, it is in major disrepair and in danger of closing if it doesn't pass its pending inspection. Benjamin works with the rag-tag staff, including head zookeeper Kelly (Scarlett Johansson), to bring the facility up to code and nurse the sick animals back to health. As the zoo is rehabbed, so are the individuals. No surprise there.The main conflict in the story comes from the hard-headedness of Benjamin and Dylan, as they ignore their inability to communicate and connect as father and son. A couple of their scenes together are the best in the film for acting and realistic dialogue. At the same time, Kelly acts as a quasi-love interest for Benjamin, while Lily (Elle Fanning) uses puppy love to help Dylan through his misery. That sub-plot is where Crowe missed a real chance. Ms. Fanning is one of the top young actresses working today and her contributions here are limited to that luminescent smile.The wild cast of supporting actors includes wise-cracking Thomas Haden Church as Benjamin's brother, JB Smoove as the Realtor, Peter Riegert as Mee's editor, Patrick Fugit (from Almost Famous) as the guy with a monkey on his shoulder, Angus Macfadyen as the colorful zoo maintenance man, and John Michael Higgins as the snooty zoo inspector who knowingly holds their future in his smarmy hand.As always, Crowe uses music better than most any other director. This includes his use of score and soundtrack to compliment a scene or drive the setting and mood. What really makes this film work is Matt Damon. His character is the heart of the film and the soul of the family. His performance is strong enough to prevent the film from lapsing into pure sap and makes us care for him, his family and this zoo. Don't expect some cutting edge, independent sulk fest. Just accept the movie for what it is ... a feel good story delivered for the holidays.
Greetings again from the darkness. Most of us don't tread in the world of corporate greed, deceit and fraud that defines the now four years ago financial crisis. Twenty five years ago Gordon Gekko in Wall Street put a face to corporate greed. Writer/Director Nicholas Jarecki now gives us Robert Miller, as portrayed by Richard Gere, for the face of Wall Street fraud ... the step beyond greed that Bernie Madoff made famous. Toss in a Chappaquiddick-type tragedy and it's abundantly clear that Robert Miller is no modern day saint.No matter how much we would prefer it to be otherwise, there is something to the charisma and emotional power of the few who seize control as politicians, CEO's and cult leaders ... all subjects of recent films. During this film, we never once doubt that Gere's Miller is a scam artist with power. He is not a good guy, despite his warm smile as he says all the right things to his family and close circle of advisors. We are sickened that he is able to fool so many. Yet, the reason this story is so familiar is that it rings so true.Watching Miller's house of cards slowly crumble is both fascinating and nerve-racking. We aren't rooting for him, but we still get caught up in his web of deceit. His demented sense of "responsibilities" guide him down the path of betrayal ... a path that stomps on his all-knowing wife, his ultra-trusting daughter, his sensitive mistress, and a young guy just trying to get his life in order.The supporting cast is strong led by Susan Sarandon as the wife, Brit Marling (Another Earth) as the daughter, and Tim Roth as the crusty NY Detective trying to catch the big fish. However, this is Gere's film and he delivers his best in years. It's also great to see Stuart Margolin, who was so entertaining as Angel in The Rockford Files back in the 70's. Another interesting casting choice has long time "Vanity Fair" editor Graydon Carter as the head of the financial institution looking to purchase Miller's company.Again, the individual pieces of the story are all quite familiar, but filmmaker Jarecki does a nice job of assembling the pieces in a manner that keep us engaged. It's a nice example of how the rules are different for the rich, and show how the worst of them even think they can get away with murder! (www.MovieReviewsFromTheDark.wordpress.com)
Greetings again from the darkness. Director Ridley Scott jumps back into the sci-fi genre 30 plus years after his two classics: Alien (1979) and Blade Runner (1982). Since then, he has avoided sci-fi and had some ups (Gladiator, American Gangster) and some downs (too many to list). Of course, in the film world, one need only create a single masterpiece to be forever worshiped ... and the Alien lovers have always held out hope their master would return. With a sly approach, Mr. Scott has delivered a prequel that should keep the geeks happy, while also having the "wow" factor to generate multiple viewings.In the year 2089 we witness an archaeologist played by Noomi Rapace (The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo) discover an ancient cave map. With remarkable efficiency, four years later, the Prometheus space ship is landing on the moon depicted in the drawings. It's mission is to discover the origin of life. The crew make-up is almost identical to the crew in Alien, only this time we get an ice queen corporate director, played by Charlize Theron, to emphasize corporate greed and the lack of love for science.Once the ship lands, we pretty much know what the search crew will find. That doesn't ruin the impact of the images. The strength of the movie comes from the visuals and effects. We never doubt that we are in a far away galaxy or that the aliens are real. This is one of the RARE times that the 3D version is recommended. Despite the dulled images caused by the glasses, this one was actually filmed in 3D and the effects really pop a few times.There will be much debate over this film because it looks effectively creepy and fascinating ... downright phenomenal. However, it has many of what I call "stupid movie character moments". You know, those times when a character does or says something that just makes no sense - other than to create an opportunity for the filmmaker? There are plenty of those present here. The script is co-written by Jon Spaihts and "Lost" guru Damon Lindelof. The overall idea is brilliant and worth pursuing, however, the details and gaps are quite disappointing. We know there will be minor characters sacrificed in the name of creating fear in the survivors, but couldn't we have more than one strong character? The Noomi Rapace character has much in common with Sigourney Weaver's Ripley, but the others here are pretty generic.Idris Elba plays the ship's captain, Guy Pearce plays Peter Weyland, the old man funding the mission and seeking immortality, and Logan Marshall-Green plays Rapace's partner and lover. The only other character of interest is Michael Fassbender's android David. He models himself after Peter O'Toole in Lawrence of Arabia, right down to the golden locks. Android technology has come a long way since Alien and David can be quite a wry smart-ass.In the end, the sci-fi geeks will decide if this one deserves to live on, but for me, despite the breath-taking technological effects, it's not at the level of Alien. It was kind of humorous to hear a score that bears an uncanny resemblance at times to the iconic score of Inception. It seems that film's impact is nothing short of never-ending.
Greetings again from the darkness. Extremely interesting first feature from writer/director Duncan Jones (son of David Bowie). The issue I often have with sci-fi is its lack of humanity. Funny to me that this one is loaded with humanity and emotions and psyche, yet it is centered around human cloning! Sam Rockwell is outstanding as the poor guy "sentenced" to 3 years of isolation on the other side of the moon in order to deliver energy back to earth. Of course, we (and he) find out that Sam is actually programmed to last 3 years before being disposed of and replaced by a new Sam.Prefer not to discuss any more about the film than that, but will say it does a very good job of examining isolation and a full spectrum of other human emotions ... not to mention the scientific possibilities that may be on the horizon. Lastly, the voice of GERTY is provided by Kevin Spacey. There aren't too many other voices that would give me LESS confidence that things are going to be alright!
Greetings again from the darkness. With Juno and Thank You for Not Smoking, writer/director Jason Reitman had proved himself to be not just a terrific filmmaker, but also one with real insight into people and society. His commentary is based on putting people in real situations and having us recognize these moments for what they truly mean.Full disclosure - I am not a George Clooney fan. While I recognize his appeal to the masses, I usually only appreciate him when he steps out of the Clooney role and into something messy (Syriana). In this film, he does a pretty good job of removing his tongue from his cheek and playing the role with the necessary head-on approach it requires. His scenes with Vera Farmiga are extremely well written and acted; but it's his scenes with Anna Kendrick that make this film something special.Clooney seems to be getting all the pub for this, but Ms. Kendrick delivers a turn that provides the emotional depth and link to the audience. My favorite scene is with the three leads discussing their ever-changing life dreams. As they say, youth is wasted on the young.So many insightful moments about everything from loneliness to independence to loyalty to belonging ... all mixed with the harsh realities of the business world at a time when everyone lives in fear of losing their job. Watching these people talk about the pain and humiliation of losing a job that is so intertwined with their person is just excruciating. This really plays out in the scene with J.K. Simmons.Gotta mention the great Sam Elliott in his brief moment as he chats it up with his airline's most loyal customer. Mr. Elliott never disappoints, even if on screen for just a couple of minutes. Thanks to Mr. Reitman for delivering yet another film with bite ... something to chew on and appreciate.
Greetings again from the darkness. How DARE he? Mike Leigh is such a non-compliant filmmaker. He just refuses to follow the rules ... and film goers are the benefactors of his daring. Mind you, his daring is not in the regards of special effects, stunt work or trick photography. No sir. His daring is with the subject, theme, tone and characters. He is ... GASP ... unafraid of real people! If you have seen Mr. Leigh's work in "Happy-Go-Lucky" or "Vera Drake", you understand that his films can be simplistic on the surface, while carrying multiple layers of commentary and observations. He also has the classic British sense of humor in that very few "punchlines" exist. Instead the humor comes in allowing the viewer to recognize the characters as someone they know, or God forbid, even their own self! Mr. Leigh has a history of making films without a script ... only broad based outlines for the characters. The actors then work to fill in the details of the individuals, which in turn, forms a story. This explains why the story does not follow the traditional arc. In fact, the story has no real beginning or ending. What we see are the interactions of people who are friends, relatives, co-workers, acquaintances and strangers. The foundation of the film, as well as the foundation for most of the other characters in the film, is the happily married couple of Tom and Gerri, played by the terrific Jim Broadbent and Ruth Sheen. This is a couple who not only love and respect each other, but also enjoy being together. Their friends and family come in and out of their lives, but their bond is strong.Key amongst this group is their friend, and Gerri's co-worker, Mary (Lesley Manville). Mary is someone we all recognize. She is single, not getting any younger, desperately trying to avoid loneliness (too often with a bottle), masking her fear through fake excitement, and latched onto the security blanket offered by Tom and Gerri's friendship.When family friend Ken (Peter Wight) makes a move on Mary, she shuns him because of his lack of perfection. She always thinks she can do better. When she begins fixating on Tom and Gerri's son Joe (Oliver Maltman), we really feel her pain but just want to slap some sense into her. The relationships all take a hit when Mary shows up for dinner and is introduced to Joe's new girlfriend ... a wonderfully charming and talented Katie (Karina Fernandez). Mary acts the selfish fool and it drives a wedge between she and Gerri. There is even a line of dialogue earlier on ... never come between a mother and her son! Another character we are witness to includes the great Imelda Staunton as a depressed middle-aged woman who comes to Gerri for professional guidance. We also meet David Bradley as Tom's older brother, Ronnie, whose wife has recently passed.All of these situations and personalities are balanced by Tom and Gerri as they provide a stable environment ... it's as if they are a fountain of sanity from which everyone wishes to drink. As an added touch, none of the characters are Hollywood beauties. Broadbent and Ms. Sheen would never be mistaken for Brad and Angelina. Rather they are more likely to look like someone you know ... and better yet, their characters live like people you WANT to know. So again I ask ... How dare he?
Greetings again from the darkness. Should this be labeled a historical drama? Is it one man's extraordinary tale of strength and survival? Does this fall into the "art film" category that so divides the movie-going public? The answer to all is YES, and I would add that it's a masterfully crafted film with exquisite story telling, stunning photography and top notch acting throughout.The movie is based on the real life and writings of Solomon Northrup, a free man who was kidnapped and sold into slavery from 1841-53. Northrup's story provides us a look inside the despicable institution of slavery. Needless to say, it's a painful and sad process made even more emotional by the work of director Steve McQueen (Hunger, Shame). McQueen takes a very direct approach. Not much is left to the imagination. Torture, abuse, cruelty and misery take up the full screen. The only subtlety comes from the terrific work of Chiwetel Ejiofor as Northrup. His facial expressions and eyes are more powerful and telling than any lines of dialogue could be.You will not find many details from the movie here. This is one to experience for yourself. It lacks the typical Hollywood agenda when it comes to American history. Instead this era is presented through the eyes of a single wronged man and his quest to return to his wife and kids, no matter the inhumane obstacles. We see Paul Giamatti as an emotionless, all-business slave trader. Benedict Cumberbatch is a plantation owner who has a heart, but lacks business savvy. And finally we enter the world of cotton farmer Michael Fassbender, who twists Bible scripture into threats directed at the slaves - his "property".Fassbender dives deep into evil to find his character, and along with Ejiofor, Sarah Paulsen (who plays Fassbender's icy wife), and Lupita Nyong'o (who plays slave Patsey, the center of the two most incredible scenes in the film), provide more Oscar worthy performances than any one movie can expect. You will also note Quvenzhane Wallis (as Northrup's daughter) and Dwight Henry (as a slave) in their first appearances since Beasts of the Southern Wild. Other strong support comes from Scoot McNairy, Taran Killam (SNL), Michael K Williams, Alfre Woodward, a nasty Paul Dano, Garret Dillahunt and Adepero Oduye.Steven Spielberg gave us a taste of the holocaust with Schindler's List, but not since the TV mini-series "Roots" has any project come so close to examining the realities of slavery. Northrup's story seems to be from a different universe than the charming slaves of Gone with the Wind. I would argue that what makes this watchable (though very difficult) is the focus on Northrup's story. While tragic, his ending actually deflects from the ongoing plight of those not so fortunate. It's a story of a man who states he doesn't wish to merely survive, he wants to live a life worth living.McQueen's direction will certainly be front and center come awards season, as will many of the actors, John Ridley (the screenwriter), Sean Bobbitt (cinematographer) and Hans Zimmer (score). The only question is whether the subject matter is too tough for Oscar voters, who traditionally lean towards projects a bit more mainstream.
Greetings again from the darkness. The broken down country singer finding redemption could be one of the biggest cliché's in life and the movies. Somehow first time writer/director Scott Cooper and the great Jeff Bridges make it seem authentic, raw and touching.Much of their success is in the amazingly subtle performance of Jeff Bridges. Heck, I believe I have the early stages of emphysema just from watching the film! Bridges' skill has always been that he melts into his role. You don't even believe he is acting - he is just that good. Here, he descends into the role of Bad Blake. Alcoholic, chain-smoking, nearly dead to the world.Supporting work from Maggie Gyllenhaal is fine, though a bit unbelievable and Robert DuVall (also listed as a producer) plays Blake's only real friend who offers him a bit of support when needed. This recalls DuVall's excellent turn many years ago in Tender Mercies.What sets this one apart is the realistic and raw performance of Bridges. The man is not afraid to put it on the screen. He does a good job with the singing and is certainly believable onstage. His protégé is played by Colin Farrell and their interacting is a bit awkward, as one would expect .. Farrell's character has gone on to superstardom, while trying not to forget his mentor.This one is being compared to The Wrestler, but I don't feel the need to do so. It stands on it's own and certainly Mr. Bridges should be a contender for the Oscar he has earned on more than one occasion. T Bone Burnett and the late Stephen Bruton wrote the music, including the excellent "The Weary Kind", which should gather some Oscar love.
Greetings again from the darkness. We have watched Sarah Polley grow up on screen. She began as a 6 year old child actress and evolved into an indie film favorite. Now, she is finding her true voice as a film director ... and what a unique voice it is. In Away from Her (2009), she told the heartbreaking story of a husband's struggle with losing his beloved wife to Alzheimer's Disease. Now we get the story of Margot, who just can't seem to find happiness or fulfillment within the stability of marriage.Margot is played exceedingly well by Michelle Williams. I would say that without the casting of Ms. Williams, this film would probably not have worked. There is something about her that prevents us from turning on her character when she veers from her loyal, if a bit lacking in passion, husband Lou (played by Seth Rogen). Williams and Rogen have the little things that a marriage needs ... a language until itself and the comfort of consistency. What Margot misses is the magic. She thinks she finds that in her neighbor Daniel, a rickshaw driver played by Luke Kirby. Daniel is the kind of guy that every guy inherently knows not to trust, yet women somehow fall for. He is a subtle and slow seducer. The kind that make it seem like everything is innocent ... right up until it isn't.Margot has that most annoying of spousal traits: she expects everyday to be Disneyland. The best scene in the movie occurs when Lou's sister (a terrific Sarah Silverman) confronts Margot and tells her that life has a gap and that you will go crazy trying to fill it. It's a wonderfully insightful line from writer/director Polley. Of course, we understand that this is Margot's nature and she learns that sometimes broken things can't be fixed.Another great scene occurs in the women's locker room after water aerobics. There is a juxtaposition between generations of older women and younger ones. We see the differences not only in physical bodies, but in the wisdom that comes with age. More brilliance from the script. The one scene that I thought crossed the line was the "martini" scene. I found it tasteless, vulgar and far more extreme than what was called for at the time. But that's a small complaint for an otherwise stellar script.As terrific as Ms. Williams and Ms. Silverman are, I found Seth Rogen to be miscast and quite unbelievable as a focused cookbook writing guy who has pretty simple, yet quietly deep thoughts about how a marriage should work. Again, this didn't ruin the film for me, but I did find him distracting and quite an odd choice.It's filmmakers like Sarah Polley that keep the movie business evolving. Her viewpoint and thoughts are unique and inspirational, and should lead to a long career as a meaningful writer/director. Oh, and the use of Leonard Cohen's "Take this Waltz" song fit right in over the credits.
Greetings again from the darkness. Writer/Director Luc Besson has a track record of mixing stylistic visuals with more traditional action: La Femme Nikita, Leon: The Professional, The Fifth Element. This time he tries to mix those components with fantasy, sci-fi and neuroscience. His hope was that Scarlett Johannson in a snug t-shirt and Morgan Freeman as an on screen narrator would sufficiently distract viewers from the intercontinental drug-muling mess.We have all fantasized about expanded brain power, and many films have touched on this: Transcendence (Johnny Depp), The Matrix franchise, and Limitless (Bradley Cooper) to name a few. Omnipotence may not be everyone's goal, but it sure doesn't seem to go well in movies. This time around, there is a Korean drug syndicate led by Choi Min-sik (Oldboy) who have synthesized a drug that takes the human brain to a new level.There are some nice moments in the film, but the pieces just don't fit smoothly together. Circumstances are such that Scarlett finds herself experiencing the effects of the drug - first by dancing on the ceiling ala Lionel Ritchie, and then with the most awkward phone call to mom in film history. Soon enough her telekinetic powers are so advanced, she mows down the heavily armed bad guys with a flick of the finger. If that makes no sense to you, you'll have to follow along with Professor Morgan Freeman's charts and graphs. His lecture spells out the steps that Scarlett will go through and the interconnected scene cuts makes sure all movie goers can keep up ... even those who don't use 10% of their brain.My biggest complaint is that if a movie about extraordinary intelligence is to be made, then the movie itself should at least be smart ... or witty. What the movie tells us is that expanded brain access allows us to medically diagnose our friends through a hug, instantly change hair color while strolling through the airport, and create invisible force fields to trap our enemies. We also learn that really smart people drive the wrong way on one-way streets. In Dallas, we typically refer to those people as idiots ... or at least horrible drivers. Evidently the joke is on us - those are the enlightened ones!This movie should have been a lot more fun than it was. A tip of the cap to Mr. Besson for casting Choi Min-sik and Amr Waked (Salmon Fishing in the Yemen), and for the global trek from Taipei to Berlin to Paris to NYC ... and finally a dinosaur and memory stick. While Scarlett's character remembers the taste of her mother's milk, I expect the memory of this film will fade quickly.
Greetings again from the darkness. Richard LaGravenese is a very talented writer and director. His credits include "Freedom Writers" (also with Hilary Swank), "Paris, je t'aime", and the documentary "A Decade Under the Influence" (about the impact of 70's films). He also wrote the terrific story for "The Fisher King" (wrongly forgotten). Here he takes on Cecilia Ahern's novel and his first real chick flick.The premise for this one is very intriguing and with Gerard Butler (so great in "300") in a leading role, my expectations were pretty high. The good news is that Butler delivers the goods. He is remarkably charming and likable and proves to have a flair for quick wit and a boyish smile. Two other male actors deserve mention. Harry Connick, jr delivers his best performance since "Little Man Tate". Connick is usually so pompous on screen that he has become somewhat of a caricature. In the film, he is mildly afflicted with say-what-you're-thinking-aloud syndrome and has some of the best scenes in the film. Also, Jeffrey Dean Morgan (slow dying Denny from "Grey's Anatomy") is pretty believable as Butler's oh-so-charming best friend and replacement.The bad news: for this film to work, we need to understand Butler's adoration of Hilary Swank. Maybe the best way for me to describe this is to say that Lisa Kudrow is not the most annoying woman in this film ... Hilary Swank is. Why did this great guy stick for 9 years with this ungrateful, narcissistic, loud, hateful, demeaning woman? Swank's character needed to be somewhat likable, not just aware that she loved him AFTER he's dead. The "true love bond" was just not on display, so it just doesn't work.I score the film so high (6) only in deference to director LaGravenese, Mr. Butler, music from the Pogues and a chick flick premise that could and should have delivered. At least it offered my mind the opportunity to re-write scenes and recast the lead with someone who I wouldn't hope would get tossed off the roof.
Greetings again from the darkness. I am actually a fan of Zack Snyder's two most recent films: 300 and Watchmen. Because of those films, I was really looking forward to what he would do with his first original piece. Two things are now very clear. First, Mr. Snyder is a visual virtuoso with film. Secondly, he is not much of a writer.I'll start with the bad news. I was stunned at how lousy the story and script were. Some of the dialogue is so bad it comes across as purposefully dumbed down. If that is the intention, then I must ask WHY? It's clearly not a movie for little kids, so most over aged 13 are quite capable of following a story. Therein lies the biggest problem. This isn't even a story! The ending makes absolutely no sense and the road to that ending just makes you happy it's over ... no matter the dumb ending.The good news is that Mr. Snyder's visual effects do not disappoint. There are some terrific battle scenes and one of the coolest on screen dragons you'll ever see. The film is very dark and muted in colors (think Sin City) but that works for the dream sequences and the asylum interiors. Very little color is present other than just before the dance sequences. Speaking of, what's with the dance sequences? If Baby Doll's dancing is the key to the film, shouldn't we get more than just a head-bob? The premise is that Baby Doll (Emily Browning) is cast away to an asylum by her step-father. She has five days to escape or she faces a lobotomy. Yes, really. She quickly discovers that her dancing has a mesmerizing effect on all those watching and she can escape into her fantasy world. While there, she meets a Wise Man played by Scott Glenn in a role that would have been perfect for the late David Carradine. The Wise Man tells her what to do to gain her freedom and she quickly enlists the help of some other inmates: Sweat Pea (Abbie Cornish), Rocket (Jena Malone), Blondie (Vanessa Hudgens)and Amber (Jamie Chung).The asylum has an even darker side as run by Blue (Oscar Isaac). He forces Dr Vera Gorski (Carla Gugin) to teach the girls to dance so as to entertain "high rollers" who pay big bucks to Blue to spend time with the girls. Gugino plays her character like a rip-off of Natasha Fatale from the old Bullwinkle cartoons. Blue is just a weaselly bad guy who brings nothing to the film ... and this film needed a top notch bad guy.The actresses all seem like they got into their roles and enjoy the physicality required for the fighting and action scenes. Cornish especially comes off well. Browning in the lead as Baby Doll brings no real baggage to the role as most won't recognize her. Jena Malone has been an indie film favorite for years and Ms. Hudgens is trying to find a new audience after the High School musical films.This movie was pitched as "Alice in Wonderland with machine guns". I believe that is a slap to the face of Lewis Carroll. Watching this movie is like watching someone else play a video game that you aren't familiar with ... or a two hour music video of a terrible song. So if you must see it, enjoy the visual effects and don't think too much about what the characters say or why they do what they do. And let's all hope that Mr. Snyder's visuals payoff for next year's Superman movie ... and be glad that Christopher Nolan is working on that script!
Greetings again from the darkness. Director Stanley Kubrick only made 11 feature films, and there have been arguments made for all 11 to be considered cinematic classics. This one must surely be included with Spartacus, Dr Strangelove, 2001: A Space Odyssey, and The Shining as films that are safe and secure in movie history. Based on the novella from Anthony Burgess, the focus on Alex makes this an extremely uncomfortable film to watch, even 41 years after original release.Malcolm McDowell is just terrific as Alex, the sadistic, remorseless, psychotic leader of a pack of hoodlums who terrorize innocents just for the sake of doing so. To emphasize Alex's distorted view of society, Kubrick utilizes a wide-angle lens to show us his Point of View. There is much commentary in the film and most of it is quite obvious. One of the least discussed is the interaction of Alex and his "droogs". When they tire of his relentless power-mongering and the lack of big scores from all of their criminal activity, we see how young thugs would handle such a situation.There is also much criticism directed at the British government and the world of psychiatry, especially mind-control. Kubrick obviously had extreme views on these topics as he went off-track from the source material to make his points. The idea of moral choice being the distinguishing factor of a man could be debated, but seems logical when contrasted with the anti-violence rehabilitation system favored by the minister.There are some fascinating visuals with the milk-plus bar, the artwork and wide-angle lens ... especially when focused on Patrick Magee's face during the rape scene. Also, the use of Ludwig van Beethoven to put Alex in the mood for "ultra-violence", and then his subsequent song and dance to "Singin in the Rain", show what the other side of music can mean to those not quite right in the head.The film received four Oscar nominations including Best Picture and Best Director, though sadly, McDowell was not recognized. While there is much in the film that is difficult to watch, the brilliance of the material, script, acting and directing are a treat for movie lovers. One bit of trivia: that is David Prowse who plays the writer's bodyguard. Mr. Prowse would go on to play Darth Vader in the Star Wars films.
Greetings again from the darkness. Writer/Director Nancy Meyers has always written her stories from purely a female perspective and because of this, she has had a very successful box office career in film ("Something's Gotta Give", "Father of the Bride", "Baby Boom" "Private Benjamin"). What is always lacking in her stories is any type of balance between the genders. "The Holiday" lags behind even the other films listed because here we are not even shown women with "gumption" (an ongoing gag in the film).The formula here is two women, Cameron Diaz and Kate Winslet, who are both successful professionals, but a mess in their personal lives. Perfect strangers, they agree to a two week house switch (L.A. and England) to escape their own lives. Yada, Yada, Yada, they find themselves and the love of their lives. Who would have guessed? Meyers basically castrates the Jude Law character (Diaz' love interest). He is as close to a woman as any non-trans-gendered man can get. Then for some unknown reason she casts physical comedian Jack Black as Winslet's dream boat. Then she evidently directed him to "act like Jack Black on valium". He tries to be funny, but mostly he just looks like a lame Jack Black impersonator. Not much to say about Cameron Diaz other than she is just plain awful here. There has to be more to acting than flashing your blue eyes and flipping your silky blonde hair. Her scenes with Jude Law are excruciating to watch for any self-respecting MAN ... and should be the same way for any woman.Kate Winslet was just phenomenal in this years' "Little Children". It showed she is as good as any actress working today. That makes her part in this even more painful; however, I will say her scenes with Eli Wallach are what keep the film from being a total flop. Winslet has this aura of goodness and she comes across very sincere. The great Eli Wallach has a sparkle in his eye and steals every scene he is in. What a pleasure to watch a true pro at his best.Having just seen Almodovar's "Volver", it provided a terrific contrast between filmmakers who write about women. Almodovar has true insight into strong women and insecure women, while Meyers just writes about women as if they are characters in romance novels. Evidently that is the difference between art and box office power.
Greetings again from the darkness. Billy Wilder's classic was the latest in the comedy series sponsored by Dallas Film Society and Dallas Morning News. It is almost always ranked as one of the top comedy films of all-time, and often the best ever. While that's a bit higher than I would rank it, there is little doubt that it has earned its enduring place in cinematic history. To fully understand the impact of the film, it helps to remind yourself of the times ... it was filmed more than 50 years ago. What we might call tame today, was incredibly risqué and daring for the times.What really stands out while watching the film is just what an incredible screen presence Marilyn Monroe possessed. It is quite challenging to take your eyes off her during any of her scenes. I am at a loss to come up with any other actor or actress who even comes close to this level of camera-cornering. Greta Garbo and Marlon Brando were great, but Marilyn is transcendent while on screen. Of course, the reports of her personal issues are legendary. Supposedly on this film, she was constantly 2-3 hours late, couldn't remember her lines and had to be coddled by all involved. Still, the final product is stunning and director Billy Wilder understood that no other actress could be substituted. Sadly, Marilyn only made two more films and was dead 3 years after this film was released.As wonderful as Marilyn is, this is really the story of Joe and Jerry, or Josephine and Daphne, or even Junior. Those five characters are all played with crackling comedy timing by Tony Curtis and Jack Lemmon. Lemmon, as Daphne, is especially terrific as he tango's the night away with Osgood Fielding III (played by Joe E Brown). Curtis is at his best when courting Marilyn's Sugar Kane while sporting his Cary Grant impersonation and driving the boat backwards.There are so many classic comedy moments in this film, and though it is based on a 1935 French farce titled Fanfare d'Amour, Wilder and his co-writer and frequent collaborator I.A.L. Diamond made it their own by adding the gangster story line. Seeing notorious movie bad guy George Raft tied to the 1929 Chicago St Valentine's Day Massacre adds a dimension that many writers/directors would be unable to handle. Instead, Wilder adds his frenetic dialogue and mixes in some wild double-entendre's, a touch of Marx Brothers, and the sensuous singing of Marilyn to deliver a world class comedy.The Florida scenes were filmed at the historical Hotel del Coronado in San Diego, which remains a very popular resort location even today. Marilyn sings "I Wanna Be Loved By You" and "I'm Through With Love" in such a way that her character's naivety adds a dimension that breaks the heart of Joe (Curtis) and mesmerizes the viewer. Billy Wilder is certainly one of the Hollywood giants and delivered such classics as Sunset Blvd, The Apartment, Irma laDouce, and Witness for the Prosecution. His excellence spans numerous film genres, and we admire his patience and proficiency in juggling the issues required to pull off Some Like it Hot ... and avoid the fuzzy end of the lollipop.
Greetings again from the darkness. The character of Lisbeth Salander absolutely fascinates me. That's true whether we are discussing Stieg Larsson's Millennium trilogy novels, the Swedish film versions, or this latest film version from director David Fincher and a screenplay from Steve Zaillian. It's also true whether Lisbeth is played on screen by Noomi Rapace (Swedish films) or Rooney Mara. She is a brilliant character hiding in plain sight from a world that has fiercely mistreated her, and now misjudges and underestimates her. She is the oddest heroine I can recall ... and I can't get enough of her.Let's start with the source material. Stieg Larsson's books are far from perfect, but addictive just the same. The first book (on which this film is based) is, at its core, a simple who-dunnit presented in a manner that is claustrophobic, paranoid and eerie. Moving on to this particular film, we find the director and screenplay holding the basic tone while making a few changes ... some minor, others more substantial. These changes may irk those fans who are a bit more loyal to the books, but Fincher surely wanted to offer more than a simple re-telling of the story.Daniel Craig plays Mikael Blomkvist, the journalist hired to solve the 40 year old mystery of the disappearance/murder of Harriet Vanger, niece to Swedish millionaire Henrik Vanger (Christopher Plummer). To research, Blomkvist must dig into the Vanger's rotten family tree of Nazis, anti-Semites, sexual predators, anti-social fanatics, and a few just plain loony birds. You can imagine how excited this rich and once powerful family is to have someone uncovering long buried secrets. Circumstances allow for Lisbeth to assist Blomkvist in researching this.Unlike many mysteries where assembling the clues is the most fun, the real heart of this story is the odd, somewhat uncomfortable developing relationship between Blomkvist and Lisbeth. This latest version allows this to develop relatively smoothly, but it nonetheless rattles our senses. We see the subtle changes in Lisbeth as she slowly opens up to the idea of a real friendship based on trust. Fear not mystery fans, the Vanger clan still provides more than enough juice to keep any film sleuth happy.It's truly impossible to avoid comparisons between the two movie versions and the respective casts. It's quite obvious Mr. Fincher was working with a substantially greater budget than Niels Arden Opler had for the first Swedish film. While they are both enthralling, I actually lean a bit towards the rawer original. That takes nothing away from this latest version. Same with Noomi Rapace vs. Rooney Mara. Ms. Mara is excellent in her performance and I was fully satisfied, but Ms. Rapace brought a rougher edge to the role ... one that made it even tougher to crack that shell. The biggest difference in the casts is Daniel Craig against Michael Nyqvist. Mr. Craig is just a bit too cool for the role, while Nyqvist captured the insecurity and vulnerability that Larsson wrote about.All of that is nit-picking. Both film versions are sterling entertainment and hopefully the Fincher version will bring the story to a much wider audience. I would encourage those that are interested to check out the Swedish version, as well as the Larsson books. Maybe that will explain my fascination with this creature known as Lisbeth Salander.
Greetings again from the darkness. The quest for quality horror films is a never-ending project. Since low budget fright fests are the easiest way to make money in Hollywood, most take shortcuts that leave us feeling cheated. This remake of a 1989 British TV horror film actually has wonderful production design ... the Gothic mansion is a sight to behold. Unfortunately, the shortcut here was a story that offers little substance.Daniel Radcliffe (yes, Harry Potter himself) plays a young, widowed solicitor named Arthur Kipps, who is still grief stricken, and now on the verge of losing his job. He is given one last chance to prove his mettle by going to a remote village to settle the affairs of recently deceased client. His young son (Misha Handley) and his nanny are to meet him in the village a few days later.The local townspeople clearly don't want him there and are constantly trying to shoo him back to London. Of course, no one ever bothers to tell him why they are frightened and why they are so angry with him for going to the old house. This mansion is a work of art. It has the necessary creep factor to star in a real horror film. The furnishings and fixtures and decor are really the star of the movie. It's not giving away anything to say that every time Radcliffe sees this mysterious woman in black, something bad happens in the village.The annoying thing about the film is that whenever we get a chill-inducing moment like a shadow in the background or a figure passing by a mirror, it is immediately followed up by a cheap parlor trick involving a sonic blast of music and an ear-piercing scream. It's as if the director (James Watkins) is convinced movie goers are too ignorant to know when to be scared, so he provides clues to say "Scream now!" Ciaran Hinds and Janet McTeer add a touch of class to the film as Mr.and Mrs. Daily, who recently lost their son. Mr. Daily has found solace in the bottle, while Mrs. Daily teeters on the brink of insanity. My theory that no film featuring Mr. Hinds can be all bad is tested here, and Ms. McTeer was seen recently as the best thing about the Albert Nobbs film.On a positive note, this is a nice transition movie for Daniel Radcliffe. He has quite a career challenge as he tries to break loose of the Harry Potter clamp. He succeeds here with quite a different physical appearance, though he really has little to do but alternate between a distantly forlorn look and peering cautiously around dark corners. A couple of interesting notes: the boy playing his son is Radcliffe's real life godson, and the actor who played Radcliffe's role in the 1989 original is Adrian Rawlins, who played Harry Potter's father in those movies.
Greetings again from the darkness. Getting dragged back to the mid-70's can be quite fun, especially when the topic is rock 'n roll. Based on lead singer Cherie Currie's autobiography, this film provides an overview of the formation, sudden fame, and equally sudden dismantling of the first all-girl's rock band, The Runaways.Joan Jett was the heart of the band, but it took oddball music producer Kim Fowley to put the band together and get the recording deal. Fowley may be the most interesting character in this story. Here he is played with force by the very talented Michael Shannon (Revolutionary Road).Instead, the story focuses on Cherie Currie and Joan Jett, mostly Currie, since it is her book! Dakota Fanning plays Cherie Currie as a confused 15 year old with a messed up family life. The family includes a mom, played by Tatum O'Neal, who announces she is getting married and moving to Indonesia. Currie's dad is a very sick alcoholic, so she is an easy recruit for Fowley and Jett. Jett is played balls-out by Kristen Stewart. Yes, Kristen Stewart from Twilight. Here she shows much more of the talent we saw prior to the Twilight series. She captures the fire and spirit of Joan Jett and leaves little doubt she will pursue her dreams despite all obstacles.Overall, the script comes up short and provides us little more than headlines and a quick glimpse. Would have expected much more on talented guitarist Lita Ford, who continues to work today. For a quick intro to the story of The Runaways, this one is fine. Just don't expect much depth.
Greetings again from the darkness. When a writer/director sets a standard with a film like In Bruges, the anticipation for the follow-up is palpable. Martin McDonagh is a writer first, and a self-taught filmmaker second. He again shows his talent for interesting characters in unusual situations, and an extraordinary blend of black comedy, violence and personal struggles with morality.This film is a smart (but dark) comedy about characters who aren't nearly as smart as they see themselves. It's quite self-referential and at its best is a self-parody. Colin Farrell plays a writer who is blocked with the perfect title ... Seven Psychopaths. Sam Rockwell plays his best friend who runs a crafty little dog-napping business and feeds Farrell possible story lines. He even goes as far as to run an ad asking real life psychopaths to come tell their story. Yep, this plan is just running smoothly until Rockwell kidnaps the dog of a local gangster played by Woody Harrelson.What we quickly figure out is that we are watching Farrell's writing process unfold on screen. The bigger challenge is trying to figure out what is really happening and what is fantasy or part of the creative process. The writing and acting are very skillful. Christopher Walken plays Rockwell's partner and delivers what may be his best performance in years. It's very offbeat and irregular ... in other words, typical Walken.The script pokes fun at the weak female characters - Abbie Cornish as Farrell's girlfriend, and former Bond girl Olga Kurylenko as Harrelson's less-than-loyal girlfriend. The film also features some of my favorite character actors. In addition to Walken, we get the great Tom Waits as a bunny loving psychopath, Harry Dean Stanton as a Quaker, Zeljko Ivanek as a henchman, and an opening scene with Boardwalk Empire alums Michael Pitt and Michael Stuhlbarg.As wonderful a writer as McDonagh is, we can't help notice the influences of Quentin Tarantino and the spaghetti westerns - especially The Good, The Bad and The Ugly. His comedic tendencies wrapped in violent sequences really challenge us as viewers. Trying to find the good in those who aren't necessarily so good adds an element and complexity as the film throws violence in our face as the characters are confronting their deeper feelings on morality. McDonagh continues to be one of the most intriguing and talented filmmakers working, and even though this one is a tick below his last one, I anxiously await his next.
Greetings again from the darkness. On average, I see two new releases per week. Selections are based on subject matter, cast, director, and most often, the trailer. My most recent two viewings were BLUE VALENTINE and SOMEWHERE, both somber to say the least. So a light-hearted buddy flick with Vince Vaughn and Kevin James, and directed by Ron Howard, seemed like just the right change of pace.Unfortunately, the actual film has little resemblance to the film advertised in the trailer. Sure the comedy scenes are present: Vince gives an acidic toast, Kevin James does his fat-man dance, and Channing Tatum plays an off-center tattooed boy toy with a loaded gun and dead fish. Where the fraud comes in is with the rest of the film. This is a pretty dark, weighty relationship movie that poses quite the moral dilemma (hence the title) for Vince. Should he tell his best friend and business partner that his wife is cheating on him? Rather than a few rounds of funny scenes with Vaughn trying to get it right, we get "deep" emotional wrangling of a poor guy who just doesn't know the best solution. Along the way he hurts many people he likes, and a few he doesn't. Please don't take this wrong, I am fully onboard with dramas being mixed with comedy. In fact, Ron Howard has provided us with one of the best examples of this ... PARENTHOOD. However, this is nowhere near that level, and in fact, misses the mark in both comedy and drama.I spent much of the movie trying to decide who was most frightening, Winona Ryder or Karen Carpenter. What?? Oh wait, I meant Winona Ryder or Jennifer Connelly. Too soon? Come on, she died in 1983. The point is Ms. Ryder carries forth with her BLACK SWAN look and Ms. Connelly evidently hasn't had solid food for a dozen years. Queen Latifah does her best to bring some energy to the film, but her character only has about 3-4 scenes. It's always nice to see how Ron Howard works in his brother Clint and his father Rance ... thereby keeping their actor's guild cards current.There really was a good idea here, but the comedy and drama just weren't meshed well. And Kevin James as a genius engineer? Seems a stretch from Mall Cop! Ron Howard has some classic movies to his name. Some funny ones like NIGHT SHIFT, and some dramatic ones like A BEAUTIFUL MIND and APOLLO 13. Unfortunately, this one falls flat and really provides little entertainment.
Greetings again from the darkness. Effectively odd comedy based on Toby Young's book and directed by "Curb Your Enthusiasm" regular Robert Weide. With so few quality comedies these days, it is refreshing to see a unique approach ... a bit of a satire on the whole celebrity thing while also commenting on the outsiders or "looky-loo's".Simon Pegg ("Hot Fuzz") stays under control most of the time and is well cast as the Toby Young-type lead who gets his shot inside the red rope. While there, he quickly falls head over for the hot new thing played by Megan Fox (who in real life is for some reason, the hot new thing). Of course, we do get the sidebar of true love building with another in the form of Kristen Dunst, Pegg's co-worker, who also has a thing going with their married scumbag boss, played devilishly well by Danny Huston. Pegg, Dunst and Huston all work for the burned out, once rebellious celebrity magazine editor, Jeff Bridges (who flashes immensely more hair here than in "Iron Man").Megan Fox's agent is played by Gillian Anderson, who also represents the hot new director, played by an unrecognizable Max Minghella ("Art School Confidential"). The brilliance of the film is that Pegg is really not all that likable, but we somehow pull for him to figure it all out ... probably because everyone else has a bit of the sleaze that we have come to hate in our co-workers and bosses.Pegg, Huston and Dunst are all fine in their roles and Bridges is his always reliable self. The bizarre part is watching Megan Fox, who plays the role seemingly drugged out and oblivious to all that's going on. She just doesn't look, act or seem right through the entire film.Some of the best stuff is when Pegg's father (a famous writer and British Lord) shows up unannounced and is treated to a nervous Pegg and intoxicated Dunst. Also the fake movie trailer with Fox playing a young and lustful Mother Teresa is creative, and I loved the use of 50's actress Janette Scott (complete with real movie scenes) as Pegg's deceased actress mother. Multiple laughs, and some very enjoyable vignettes throughout ... works on a few levels.
Greetings again from the darkness. In the opening sequence of "Saving Private Ryan", director Steven Spielberg provided us with one of the most horrific and terrifyingly realistic and violent examples of war ever shown on screen. Here, he takes a much different approach. Though the bulk of the movie takes place during World War I, Spielberg manages to withhold the brutal atrocities, while never once losing the impact and fear experienced by the soldiers. And while it's uncertain whether this approach makes for a better film, it is obviously a more accessible and uplifting story because of it.Based on the children's book by Michael Morpurgo, and of course on the hugely successful stage runs in both London and New York, this movie is really the story of an unbreakable bond between a sincere farm boy named Albert (newcomer Jeremy Irvine) and a majestic horse named Joey. We witness the early bonding and training sessions between the two, which allows us to swallow some of the more improbable coincidences later in the story. When the war breaks out, Albert's dad (Peter Mullan) sells the horse to the cavalry so that he can save the farm by paying the landlord (David Thewlis). Fortunately, Captain Nicholls (Tom Hiddleston) agrees to keep Joey as his personal horse and return him to Albert after the war.War is unpredictable, and Joey gets passed from the British to the Germans to a French farmer's daughter, back to the Germans and back to the British. Along the way, we witness what a remarkable creature the horse is. Were he a man, he would be a most decorated officer. Instead, we witness how little value the military places on animals ... even the beautiful ones. There are numerous scenes that make will make you uncomfortable with the cruelty shown, but just as many that will make you smile with joy. The already famous scene that features Joey's unfortunate conflict with barbed wire and fence posts will have you squirming in your seat, while also scratching your head in wonderment.Though many of the events and sequences are a bit of a stretch to believe (the time-out in No Man's Land), the one thing you will never doubt is the beauty of the film. It's epic nature recalls "Doctor Zhivago" or "Lawrence of Arabia" (though not at the overall level of either of those films), and the photography reminds me of John Ford's best work. Off the top of my head, I would say it is the most beautifully photographed movie since Terrence Malick's "Days of Heaven" in 1978. Spielberg's long time DP Janusz Kaminski is at his best here and will surely be recognized for his cinematography by the Academy.Many of the British actors are recognizable (Emily Watson, Benedict Cumberbatch, Toby Kebbell, Eddie Marsan, David Kross), but it's key that Spielberg cast no "movie stars", only quality actors. The stars of the film and the story are the horse and the visuals. It should also be noted that the great John Williams delivers another perfect score ... one that would run away with the Oscar in many years.No need to be frightened off because the story is based during World War I. It's not for the youngest of kids, but this is an uplifting, sentimental and emotional movie for most everyone. It is peak Spielberg working with sentiments and subject matter with which he so excels.
Greetings again from the darkness. Every once in awhile a movie comes around that seems to have all the markings of a cult film that could become a midnight movie favorite. Since I can best describe this one as a darkly comedic supernatural horror film, its only real hope for staying power is that teens and young adults embrace the outlandish look at good and evil, and make it a regular on the midnight movie circuit.Director Alexandre Aja (The Hills Have Eyes) has long been part of the "splat pack" and this time his source material has good genes. The popular book was written by Joe Hill, son of the great Stephen King. It's an oddly atmospheric and sometimes funny film with theological undertones, and Aja stays mostly under control until the ultra-violent ending sequence. Daniel Radcliffe stars as Ig, a young man widely suspected by his fellow small town residents of murdering his true love (Juno Temple). After a visually creative opening that turns Ig's world upside down and moves us from heaven to hell, we follow Ig's attempt to solve the murder with the help of his attorney and long time friend (Max Minghella). And then one morning, things get really weird. Ig sprouts devil horns from his forehead. Things also get fun. This devilish look has the effect of causing people to confess their darkest inner thoughts  those thoughts we don't even admit to ourselves!Much of the movie plays as a basic whodunit, and the entire thing has a "Twin Peaks" feel to it  right down to the diner (Eve's Diner with an apple logo). There are flashes of satire aimed at the news media, the drug culture, religion, and parenthood; and its core is a theme of "every devil used to be an angel". With the satanic element, you can be sure Rock 'n Roll comes into play (David Bowie, Marilyn Manson, The Pixies), and it's actually kind of fun to watch Ig take advantage of his supernatural powers with a combination of evil and charm.Radcliffe takes the role seriously and his approach adds some bite to the humorous elements. Juno Temple has limited screen time as his love interest, while Heather Graham goes full out nutso as the publicity seeking waitress, and Kelli Garner has the most frustrating role (her talents are wasted, except for a bizarre donut scene). Minghella doesn't bring much to a role that had some potential, but Joe Anderson delivers as Ig's drug addicted trumpet playing brother. James Remar and Kathleen Quinlan each have an extended scene as Ig's parents, and David Morse delivers as the angry dad who has lost a daughter.Mr. Aja throws a mixture of style and elements as he takes full advantage of the gloomy and colorful Pacific Northwest setting. Numerous flashbacks are utilized, including some childhood events that impact the current situation. The pitchfork, horns and serpents are there to distinguish good versus evil, but mostly you better be prepared for a twisted hoot that reminds a bit of Bubba Ho-Tep in the outrageous blend of comedy and horror  yep, the makings of a midnight cult favorite.
Greetings again from the darkness. What a unique film-going experience. Having the opportunity to see two takes on the same subject matter within a year or so is pretty rare in Hollywood. It happened most recently with "Tombstone" and the vastly inferior "Wyatt Earp". Rarely does it happen when both films are exceptionally well made and acted ... as is the case with last year's "Capote" and now, "Infamous".First of all, you must understand that the films are actually based on different books. "Infamous" is based on George Plimpton's book in which he really tries to capture Truman Capote, the man and the genius. Because of this, director Douglas McGrath ("Nicholas Nickleby" and "Emma") utilizes some faux-interview segments, much like a "Biography" segment on television. Of course, both films center around the process of Capote researching and writing his masterpiece "In Cold Blood" based on the brutal slaying of a Kansas family in their farmhouse. They both also explore Capote's bizarre relationship with Perry Smith (played brilliantly here by the next James Bond, Daniel Craig). The sexual tension between the two is palpable, but we continue to question if Capote is merely manipulating Smith for the story or if, in fact, there is real substance to the attraction. We will never know if his reaction on death row is heartbreak or guilt. The mystery adds to the power of the story.The cast in this film is nothing short of spectacular. From the opening moments with Gwyneth Paltrow portraying the great Peggy Lee in a melancholy stage moment to Sigourney Weaver, Hope Davis, Isabella Rossellini and Juliet Stevenson doing the twist, the actresses are terrific - as are their amazing costumes! In addition to Daniel Craig as Perry Smith, Lee Pace (as Dick Hickcock), Jeff Daniels as the sheriff and ("Last Picture Show" director) Peter Bogdanovich as Bennett Cerf, the actors are also top notch.Toby Jones as Truman Capote is much more flamboyant and colorful than the amazing performance by Phillip Seymour Hoffman last year. Many will try to compare, but what I say is, enjoy them both for their high level of artistry! Now for something I never thought I would put in writing. Sandra Bullock is extremely effective as Nelle Harper Lee (Capote's muse and of course, the author of "To Kill a Mockingbird"). Bullock usually flips her hair and bumbles all cutesy-like through her performances, but not here. She plays Ms. Lee straightforward and tough, just like the real thing. How wonderful.Yes, the story is still heart-wrenching, but "Infamous" provides much more levity, humor and color than the more somber "Capote". Both are wonderful films with excellent casts. Enjoy them both as fine film-making seems to be a rare commodity these days.
Greetings again from the darkness. The much anticipated sequel to the 1987 original has Oliver Stone back in the director's seat and one of the most iconic characters in movie history, Gordon Gekko, being released from prison. Michael Douglas is back as GG and the film opens with his release from prison ... with no one there to pick him up. He is truly on his own.Skip ahead a few years and we see Shia LeBeouf as Jake, a Wall Street hotshot working for Frank Langella, a Wall Street legend. It is very obvious that this legend, and Jake's mentor, is in deep trouble and the entire market is pretty wobbly. Sound familiar? Yep, it's 2008. Ahh yes, the juicy part ... Jake is getting engaged to the lovely Winnie (Carey Mulligan) who just happens to be Gordon Gekko's estranged daughter. Now we're rolling! Turns out, the dirty tricks and back room deals didn't stop while Gekko was incarcerated. Josh Brolin plays a high roller for a thinly disguised firm that most will recognize as Goldman Sachs. Brolin thinks he was wronged a few years back by Langella and can't wait to get even when the opportunity presents itself in a meeting with the Treasury Secretary. Sound deliciously nasty? Well not so fast.The movie steers away from much of the back-stabbing and dirty deal making that was so prevalent in the original. It even avoids much commentary on the scuzzy financial services industry leaders who managed to profit while all of our retirement plans and home values were plummeting. Instead, we get much melodramatic, sappy conversation about feelings and family and time. Apparently Gekko found a semblance of a soul while in prison. He's certainly not perfect, but this is not the wheeler-dealer that was so much fun to hiss in part one.Oliver Stone tosses in some touches that help: Charlie Sheen reprises his Bud Fox role for a brief encounter with Gekko, there are some terrific shots of NYC and we get Sylvia Miles back as the Realtor - this time helping Jake dump his loft in a soft market. We even get 95 year old Eli Wallach whistling his way through a power role, complete with Jake's ringer playing the theme song to "The Good, The Bad and the Ugly". All fun aspects, but they don't offset the inordinate number of times we get people choking up and crying. Had to check the credits to see if Nora Ephron was co-director.Bottom line, if you enjoyed the original, you probably owe it to yourself to see how Gekko has come full circle. The ride is fine, just not at the same level as we were treated 23 years ago.
Greetings again from the darkness. The best movies expertly provide a visual representation of quality writing. However, the film medium is somewhat limited, and especially struggles, in displaying the complexities of human introspection  something the best writers are able to capture with words on a page. Director Jean-Marc Vallee (Dallas Buyer's Club) and writer Nick Hornby (An Education, High Fidelity) are simply unable to capture the guts of Cheryl Strayed's memoir "Wild: Lost to Found on the Pacific Crest Trail"  despite the likely Oscar nominated performance of Reese Witherspoon.It's quite likely, given the steady stream of rave reviews, that my lack of connection with the film is firmly planted in a small minority of movie goers and film critics. On the bright side, it's a real pleasure to see Reese Witherspoon follow-up her no frills supporting role in Mud with a strong portrayal of uber-flawed Cheryl.The story picks up with Cheryl getting ready for her 1100 mile hike of the Pacific Crest Trail in the summer of 1995. Her lack of trail experience is obvious from the unwrapped, shiny new contents of her "monster" backpack. While walking alone with her thoughts, memories are triggered by such things as a song, a horse, and even a phrase. It's through these flashbacks that we learn the reasons for Cheryl's trek towards self-discovery. The illness and death of her beloved mother, a childhood marred by an abusive father, her own crumbled marriage brought on by her promiscuity ("I cheated on him a lot"), and her attempts to dull the pain through heroin abuse, have led Cheryl to the trail head of re-discovering her true self.Cheryl's mother is played by Laura Dern (a terrific performance) and while her inspiration is obvious, there is one especially poignant scene that takes place in the kitchen  Bobbi tells Cheryl that she fully understands their plight, and refuses to let that define her life. That powerful scene is negated by the awkward and unexplained relationship Cheryl has with her ex-husband (Thomas Sadoski), the underdeveloped best friend support shown from an intriguing Gaby Hoffmann, and the voice mail connection with her brother (Keene McRae). More of these key people and fewer flashbacks might have allowed us to better relate to Cheryl as a person, rather than someone who hasn't dealt well with a few life obstacles.The familiar guitar strumming of Simon and Garfunkel's "El Condor Pasa" is heard throughout, as are numerous literary quotes that Cheryl used to leave her mark in the trail journals. There are, of course, similarities here to other films such as Into The Wild, 127 Hours, and Eat Pray Love. Also present is the element of a solitary woman in the wilderness  every male presence is greeted with anxiety from Cheryl, especially in contrast to the warm greeting she offers another female hiker.The biggest missing link for me was Cheryl's apparent epiphany. We witness a couple of emotional breakdowns along the trail, plus big time blisters, damaged toenails, rain and snow, and nature's beauty. What's not explained is her personal growth and self-discovery  the moment when Cheryl put the past behind and went "above her nerve". While her desire and efforts are commendable, the real story would be her inner thoughts  those conversations going on inside her brain (and in the book) that led to a conclusion of which we aren't privy.
Greetings again from the darkness. Mel Gibson as a technical filmmaker is talented, intriguing and at times ingenious. As a story teller he is mostly mediocre and at times lackluster. That in a nutshell is "Apocalypto" ... an amazing film to watch, but in the end, just a shell of a story with no real character development or emotional attachment from the viewer.What Gibson definitely displays is an addiction to gore, violence and scenes of torture. These three are full tilt here with some moments that are too harsh for these comments. Suffice to say, at times it is little more than an artsy slasher film. On the positive side, Gibson's camera work for the never-ending chase scene through the forest/jungle is simply breathtaking and spectacular. When I say never-ending, it is barely an exaggeration. If you thought "French Connection" chase scene was long, the last hour plus of this one will have you re-evaluating.The outline of the story is the violent attempts of the Mayans to please the gods with temples and human sacrifices. To meet this end, they pillage innocent villagers in dramatic productions that will make most a bit queasy. Our protagonist is Jaguar Paw (played well by Rudy Youngblood) who spends the entire film either trying to save his family from the pillagers or outrun the bad guys in order to save his family or beat mother nature to the punch trying to save his family.Yes, that is the entire story and many are making a big deal about the allegory and secret message in regards to the Iraqi war, but I find that to be another shallow attempt to give this film the meaning and substance it so desperately lacks. Again, filmed beautifully with remarkable jungle scenes, but just not enough story for the scale it pretends to reach.
Greetings again from the darkness. Although I thought the previews to this were terribly done, how could any film lover skip one with Redford, Cruise and Streep? I will have no difficulty skipping the next one.Redford as a director has not made a really good film since 1980's "Ordinary People". Somehow he has been christened lord of film by many because of his much to be admired Sundance Festival efforts. Separating the two finds that he just doesn't have much of a flair as a director. The number of talking head close-ups have to push 50 in this blabbering film.I will not go on a rant here with all I despised about the film. I certainly expected the liberal perspective, but the lack of soul caught me off guard. Read a few articles for better information. See any number of movies for better story telling and film-making. Watching Redford's condescending, ego-maniacal professor act nearly motivated me to ask for a refund. Cruise actually combs his hair and then enunciates his lines as if reading a script. Streep, on the other hand, is outstanding and multi-faceted as a once hot shot political writer, who has lost her zing. Interestingly, the second best performance in the film is by Kevin Dunn as Streep editor. Their scene together is the film's best.Derek Luke and Michael Pena are little more than pawns in making the obvious point that the war is wrong. Andrew Garfield certainly does not have the acting chops to offset Redford's ridiculous turn. Just a waste of time and talent and not effective as a message, a story or a film.
Greetings again from the darkness. I was a bit miffed when this film beat out both A Prophet and The White Ribbon for the Best Foreign Language Film at this year's Academy Awards. Since then, I have been anxious to see this "upset" winner. It is with great pleasure that I state my faith in the Academy voters is restored. This is a staggeringly wonderful film! Based on the novel by Eduardo Sachesi, it is written and directed by Juan Jose Campanella, who also directed Argentina's 2001 Oscar entry "Son of the Bride". Mr. Campanella also has quite a resume of U.S. television in addition to his film work. What really stands out here is the multitude of story lines and character development, none of which are cheated ... yet each which could have stood on their own as a film. This is terrific film-making with rare balance between comedic dialogue, a full fledged crime drama, unrequited love and nasty politics.The excellent script is helped along with fine acting by the key players: Ricardo Darin as Esposito, Soledad Villamil as Irene, Guillermo Francella as Sandoval, Pablo Rago as Morales, and Javier Godino as Gomez. Each actor has physical features that play well with the film's title.I certainly don't wish to give away much of the substance of the film, but it mostly revolves around the investigation by Esposito and Sandoval into the brutal rape and murder of Morales' young, beautiful wife. Esposito works for Irene and they have "eyes" for each other, and Gomez is the key suspect despite all the political maneuvering designed to throw the investigators off track.There are a few outstanding scenes and my two favorite were an incredibly intense elevator ride, and a fascinating crowd scene at a soccer/futbol game. As you might guess, there are innumerable close-ups for a clear eye-level shot and the film bounces back and forth between 1974 and 2000, so we must adjust to the weak make-up.For anyone who enjoys fine film-making and isn't afraid of 2 plus hours of subtitles, you will surely be satisfied and impressed at the quality of this film.
Greetings again from the darkness. Based on Bryan Burrough's book, "Heat" director surprisingly takes a straight-on approach to the story of Public Enemy Number One, John Dillinger. There is none of Mann's usual MTV approach, though some of the texture and look of the film seemed inconsistent and even distracting.Personally I appreciate the mostly no-frills method here as Johnny Depp brings Dillinger to life as a serious, dangerous man when he's working, and a bit of a charmer when dealing with the press or the ladies. The sets, costumes, accents and cast are all spot on. I especially enjoyed the look and feel of the train station and the Biograph Theatre.If anything, too many characters are thrown at us, but the cast is so strong, that even that is no real negative. Channing Tatum as Pretty Boy Floyd, Marion Cotillard as Billie Frechette and Stephen Lang as Agent Winsted all add a nice touch. And don't miss Diana Krall (Mrs. Elvis Costello) as a lounge singer. Christian Bale actually plays Melvin Purvis close to the vest and some of the best stuff is thrown down by Billy Crudup in a wonderful spin on the ambitious J Edgar Hoover. He is excellent and creepy.Depp and Cotillard have some strong scenes together, but I actually thought the gun fights were a bit over done and unrealistic - though efforts were taken to make it seem very real. Just a slight disconnect there for me.Overall a pretty decent and straightforward bio-pic with minimal Hollywood fluff. Dillinger's story is plenty strong enough without the dramatic license we usually get. Also loved the soundtrack.
Greetings again from the darkness. First time director Lorene Scafaria is best known for her wonderful script for Nick and Nora's Infinite Playlist. Directing her own script here, we are left wondering if the gaps are in the writing or directing. It matters little as Matilda, a giant asteroid, is headed towards Earth and life will cease to exist in 3 weeks. Upon hearing this news, Dodge's wife Linda (played by Steve Carell's real-life wife) takes off running away from him and supposedly into the arms of her secret love affair partner.Dodge (Carell) has little reaction to the bailing of his wife or even to the impending Armageddon. In fact, he strikes us as the guy who has had little reaction to much in life and has no idea who he really is. While he does have some acquaintances and a predictably boring job at an insurance company, Dodge shows no inclination to join in the festivities of excess enjoyed by others, and instead offers up a lame, sure to fail suicide attempt.It takes little time for Dodge to be saddled with an abandoned dog named Sorry and a crying neighbor named Penny (Keira Knightley). This part of the film is actually its best feature. We get the forced partnership of this odd couple and a road trip that allows for some interaction with others. The others include standout scenes with William Peterson, Bob Stephenson and TJ Miller (the host as Friendsy's, a TGIF themed diner that devolves into a scene neither Dodge nor Penny care to take in.The road trip does have the outline of a purpose. Dodge wants to re-connect with his high school sweetheart and Penny wants to get home to England in time to say goodbye to her parents. However, it's pretty clear that the main reason for the road trip is to allow Dodge and Penny to fall in love. Just another apocalyptic rom-com.I totally get the "opposites attract" approach, but I found Knightley to be far beyond quirky (John Cale and Leonard Cohen vinyl) and closer to her mentally unstable character in the first hour of A Dangerous Method. As for Dodge, he may be the nice guy that Penny sees, but mostly his life force hovers just above zero, while wearing sweaters that would fit right into Mr. Rodgers' neighborhood. It's not until he sees his dad that he shows signs of a pulse.While I never really bought into the heightened attraction of these two, their relationship does provide fodder for thought. What would you do if you knew things were ending in 3 weeks? Would your true self finally make an appearance? If so, what are you waiting for? The message really is ... our time is limited so don't waste it.
Greetings again from the darkness. Whether you saw the first two in this series will directly correlate to whether you head to the theatre for this third entry. The filmmakers' attempt to attract a younger audience by adding a "new" crew and dropping to a PG-13 rating backfires, and will not provide the legs this franchise needed for more installments.The regular old geezers are back: Sylvester Stallone, Jason Statham, Dolph Lundgren, Terry Crews, Randy Couture, Jet Li (briefly), and Arnold Schwarzenneger. In addition, we get new "old" blood in the form of Antonio Banderas, Kelsey Grammar, Wesley Snipes, Harrison Ford, and the dominating presence of Mel Gibson as the bad guy. The young blood comes in the form of Kellan Lutz, Glen Powell, boxer Victor Ortiz, and MMA superstar Ronda Rousey. The blandness of the newbies simply steals valuable screen time for the old folks, and the movie suffers because of it.The film's biggest flaw, however, comes with the biggest screen hog of all-time: Mr. Stallone. We understand that this is franchise is his baby, but why field an all-star team if you won't let them play? Snipes gets some time early in the film, replete with a reference to his real life prison sentence for tax evasion, and Ford and Arnold get in a few shots, but the only savior here is Mel Gibson. It's a reminder of just how good he can be on screen ... if we could just forget what a horrible person he can be off screen.There is no need to go into detail on the plot or describe any of the characters. You know what you are getting if you buy a ticket. It's just a shame the film's direction and script aren't at the level deserving of a cast that includes: Rambo, Mad Max, Blade, Conan, Han Solo, Hercules, Zorro, The Transporter, He-Man, and even ... Sideshow Bob!
Greetings again from the darkness. Many were unimpressed with the first Captain America movie, though I have always had a soft spot for the most heroic and genuinely pure of the superheroes. This sequel opens with Steve Rogers trying to acclimate after a 70 year sleep ... he thinks the internet is pretty cool. It is a bit surprising that the Russo brothers (Anthony and Joe, known for You, Me and Dupree) are the ones who load up on plot lines within a Marvel movie.Starting off with big time action sequences, the movie then morphs into a geopolitical weave of intrigue between SHIELD and HYDRA. New to this maze of distrust is Robert Redford ... proving once again that Hollywood doesn't trust guys wearing suits in fancy offices. In a twist, Captain America (Chris Evans) and Black Widow (Scarlett Johansson) find themselves the target of a manhunt by those they work for. Then they drag The Falcon (Anthony Mackie) into this ... his flight suit is a nice effect. All of this happens after an unexpected action-packed sequence featuring Nick Fury (Samuel L Jackson).The multiple plot lines and emphasis on trust issues all correlate pretty well to some of the things going on in the world today. That adds an enjoyable element that really brings relevance to the Captain America character. Because of this the repartee between Cap and Natasha is limited ... we get some, but much less than what we have come to expect from other Avengers-related films. And it's probably a good idea to go a different direction with the Avenger who really is different from the others. Don't miss the extra scene in the closing credits ... it's the lead in to The Avengers movie coming in 2015.
Greetings again from the darkness. Once one has seen/read enough biographies, our defense mechanism automatically kicks in to protect us from the bias and slants of the filmmaker/author. Add Oliver Stone to the mix and we surge beyond defensive into skeptical. "W" is most certainly produced from a left wing perspective, but given the subject, one wonders if a truly unbiased presentation is even possible.The biggest problem I have with the film is that it is just so cartoonish. It is like standing at the fair all day to watch the caricature artist work. This is not limited to Josh Brolin's portrayal of the President, but extends to almost the entire cast. The script must have contained tips like this: Play W like a drunken frat boy, paste a never-ending smile on Laura Bush, have Colin Powell show utter contempt and mumble a lot, Condoleezza Rice tilts her head and has an irregular speech pattern, Karl Rove and Dick Cheney are smug jerks who know more than everyone, Barbara Bush yells and elder Bush is weak so make sure he cries.Stone's version seems to have some compassion for Colin Powell as he is seen as the lone voice of dissension in meetings and is even mocked by the other decision makers. It also portrays W as a man who takes in all views and makes the decisions ... right or wrong (though mostly wrong). The film has the feeling of being rushed to release in order to bash republicans before the next election as there seem to be many disconnects and some choppiness in the presentation.I can't really figure out a non-political reason for this film to be made as never before has there been a biographical film released of a still in office President. And the more I think of it, the more I believe this is just one step from a real cartoon ... think of the old "Beatles" cartoons!
Greetings again from the darkness. It is very rare for a first time director to score a cast like this. But then, Tony Gilroy is not the typical first time director, having made his name through writing some hits like the "Bourne" series and "Armageddon". Evidently he spent much more time on his directing than his writing for this project. I was just amazed at the simplicity of the story. For two hours this film looks and acts all serious and intricate, when in fact, it is a story not dissimilar to "Silkwood" and "Erin Brokovich".The cast is wonderful and the film is filled with terrific performances by Sydney Pollack, the great Tilda Swinton, Tom Wilkinson and Michael O'Keefe ("Caddyshack" fame). And to top it off, George Clooney gives his best and most diverse performance to date. We feel the burden he carries both in his personal life and at the office. This guy is up to his ears with stress, but he just keeps plugging.Sure, there are some moralistic questions and integrity issues throughout, but the tension is really minimal since there are no real twists or turns. I believe the decision to go with a non-linear presentation was purely to add a bit of interest to the film.Overall, it proves to watchable, but could have used a script doctor. Ironic given the project leader. Worth watching, but not at the level of numerous other lawyer-thrillers.
Greetings again from the darkness. I certainly consider myself a fan of Woody Allen's films and am in awe of his prolific ability to write and direct a new movie most every year since 1969. With so many films to his credit, it's expected that a few will be clunkers. After a pretty nice run of non-New York based films, his love letter to Rome falls short ... not from lack of ambition, but rather from a feeling that these stories have been on his "to do" list for too many years. They feel mostly stale and dated.With one of the world's most beautiful and interesting cities as a backdrop, Mr. Allen delivers four stories - none of which intersect with the others. There are some similar shared themes, but mostly what the four stories have in common is mass overacting by all involved. Surprisingly, the one exception might be Alec Baldwin, whose wise-cracking lines are played pretty close to the vest. Unfortunately, all of the other key actors seem to think they are onstage at a dinner theatre and that hyper-activity and bellowing lines are lines required.In one story, Woody Allen (his first acting gig since Scoop) and Judy Davis head to Rome to meet their daughter's (Alison Pill) fiancé (Flavio Parenti). Allen overhears the father singing in the shower and works out a scheme to get him an audition that leads to a career. The father is played by famed Opera tenor Fabio Armiliato and this story is so goofy, it could easily fit into Allen's "early funny ones".Another story has newlyweds played by Alessandro Tiberi and Alessandro Mastronardi in a series of innocent happenstance that leads to some not so innocent events that include her favorite actor (Antonio Albanes) and high-priced call girl (Penelope Cruz). Most of this has the feel of a Benny Hill skit.Jesse Eisenberg and his girlfriend Greta Gerwig share time with her visiting friend played by Ellen Page. This is the Alec Baldwin sequence and he is a near-ghost-like entity who pops in to provide obvious advice or warning to the players so they don't make the same mistakes he made as a younger man. This sequence had potential, but never amounted to much.The fourth story is just an absurd commentary on reality TV and instant fame. Roberto Begnini plays a normal Italian citizen and family man who one day gets thrust into the world of celebrity for no apparent reason. See, that's the joke. Probably ten years past the time when this was relevant.Bashing Woody Allen is not my intent here. Simply pointing out that there are four stories and numerous actors and none of it struck a chord with me. Not to say there weren't a few well written lines and a couple of terrific shots of Rome ... just not enough to keep me going for two hours.
Greetings again from the darkness. Well, after two viewings and endless analyzing, it's time to commit thoughts to the page. Over the years, it has become very clear that a Tarantino movie generates a first reaction, and then proceeds to slither through your mind and morph into something else entirely. It would be very easy to accept this latest as an outrageous peek at slavery disguised as a spaghetti western. For most filmmakers, that would be plenty. The "whole" here is exceedingly impressive, but the real joy for cinephiles is in the bits and pieces.One need not be a Quentin Tarantino expert to enjoy his movies, but there are a couple of things that help. First, he is at heart, a true lover of cinema and quite the film historian, showing sincere respect to the pioneers of this art form. Second, he loves to bring visibility to issues (large and small) by poking a bit of fun at the evil doers who wield unnecessary influence and control over weaker parties. Morality, vengeance, revenge and come-uppance invariably play a role in his story-telling ... a bonus this time is the inclusion of the Brunhilde/Siegfried legend from Norse mythology and the Wagner operas.In his two most recent films, QT has been on a kick for revisionist history. Inglourious Basterds made a strong statement against the Nazi's, while this latest goes hard after slave owners. As you might expect, historical accuracy is less important to him than are the characters involved and tales they weave. And to that point, it seems quite obvious that where in the past, Tarantino would center his attention on crackling dialogue and searing one-liners, he now offers up much more complete characterizations ... these are people we understand, even if we don't much like them.The obvious love he has for Sergio Corbucci and Sergio Leone, the driving forces behind spaghetti westerns is plastered on the screen. We even get the beautiful camera work through the snow as a tribute to Corbucci's The Great Silence (1968). While this is not a remake or sequel or prequel, Franco Nero's "I know" response to "The D is silent" generates a laugh and memories of a 25 year old Nero in the titular role of "Django" (1966). The Blaxploitation genre plays a significant role here as well since Jamie Foxx plays Django, a freed slave who buddies up with a German dentist-turned-bounty hunter, so that Django can get revenge on those responsible for the torture and mistreatment of his wife.The details of the stories will not be exposed here, however, I would encourage you to pay close attention to the moments of film brilliance. There is a running gag with townspeople and slaves alike struggling to accept the sight of Django on a horse. You'll laugh again when Django is offered the opportunity to pick out his own clothes and we see Foxx in a velvet Little Lord Fauntleroy outfit straight out of The Blue Boy painting from Gainsborough. There is hilarious banter between Big Daddy (Don Johnson) and Betina as he tries to give guidance on how to give Django a tour of the plantation.Some of the best moments occur when we recognize the actors in the vital foundation scenes. Don't miss: bad guy Bruce Dern, Don Stroud (the drummer in The Buddy Holly Story) as the sheriff, Tom Wopat (Dukes of Hazzard), father and daughter Russ and Amber Tamblyn, Jonah Hill who struggles with the eye holes in his "bag", the eyes of Zoe Bell, Ted Neeley (Jesus Christ Superstar), "Dexter" dad James Remar has two roles, Walton Goggins as a gunslinger, Michael Parks (multiple roles in Kill Bill and Grindhouse), and of course, Mr Tarantino himself (as an explosive cowpoke from down under).While each of these provide wonderful moments, it's the main performances of Jamie Foxx (Django), Christoph Waltz (Dr King Schultz, bounty hunter), Leonardo DiCaprio (Calvin Candie, plantation owner), and Samuel L Jackson (Stephen, Candyland house slave). Any combination of these characters in any scene could be considered a highlight. It's especially enjoyable to see DiCaprio cut loose after so many uptight characters recently. Samuel L Jackson has long been a Tarantino favorite, and his delivery as the diabolical Uncle Tom house slave who has some secrets of his own, will bring the house down when he first sees Django and, in a much different way, when his suspicions are confirmed. Power is big player in the story, and even as a slave, Stephen knows what to do with power when he has it. Mr. Waltz won an Oscar for his Inglourious Basterds performance, and his dialogue here is every bit as rich. It's obvious how much Tarantino enjoys hearing his words spoken by Waltz. Foxx' performance could be easily overlooked, but it's actually the guts of the film. He is quiet when necessary and bold when required.We must also discuss the soundtrack. Franco Migiacci's original "Django" theme is featured, as are classics and a new song from the great Ennio Morricone. If you doubt the originality of the soundtrack, can you name another western that utilizes a mash-up of James Brown and Tupac Shakur? How about a spot-on use of Jim Croce's "I've Got a Name"? The film is beautifully shot by Robert Richardson, and Fred Riskin takes over for Tarantino's long-time editor Sally Menke, who sadly passed away in 2010.It should also be noted that the script puts hip-hop to shame by using the "N-word" more than 100 times. It is a bit disconcerting, and you can google Spike Lee's comments if you care to read more on the topic. Otherwise, dig in to the latest gem from Tarantino and appreciate his approach and genius ... either that, or stay away!
Greetings again from the darkness. What is a hero? There have certainly been no shortage of super hero movies these past few years, but those are mostly comic book characters brought to life through the magic of Hollywood. Can a heroic act turn a flawed man into a hero? Should his flaws change how we treat him after the heroic act? All these are questions raised by the script from John Gatins. The easiest question of all? If you are a movie producer and you need a flawed hero ... the obvious choice is Denzel Washington.Director Robert Zemekis returns to live action after more than a decade of experimenting with animation. Of course, Zemekis is firmly entrenched in Hollywood lore thanks to his Back to the Future trilogy, as well as Forrest Gump (for which he won an Oscar). This is quite dark material for Zemekis and he handles it quite well. The trailer tells us what we need to know about the premise. Denzel plays a pilot who, under extreme circumstances, "inverts" the commercial jet he is flying so it can be landed in an open field. Yes, invert means to fly the plane upside down. If you are queasy about flying, this is one to avoid. And don't count on this being the in-flight movie on your next business trip.The first 30 minutes of this movie are as strong as any seen on screen this year. We quickly get a sense of Captain Whip Whitaker and then we see his remarkable actions during an incredibly well filmed crash sequence. Unfortunately, I found the second half of the film plays like a heavy-handed advertisement for AA (not American Airlines). Whitaker is exposed for his absurdly high blood alcohol level and existence of cocaine ... so clearly presented in the film's opening. Over the years, many films have tackled addiction: Leaving Las Vegas, Clean and Sober, When a Man Loves a Woman. Rarely have we seen the expert talent of deception and lying that Capt Whitaker displays.There is little doubt that Denzel's performance will warrant Oscar consideration ... and it should. The film depends on an actor skilled enough to reach the depths necessary for us to believe this guy, despite his cocky pilot strut and unmatched flying skills, is little more than a mentally weak addict.There are a couple of outstanding supporting performances here: John Goodman as Harling Mays, a colorful and energetic, free-wheeling dealer who works miracles with Whitaker when he appears to gone to function; and Kelly Reilly (Mary Watson from the Sherlock Holmes movies) as fellow addict Nicole, who connects with Whip and tries to help him. We also get solid work from Don Cheedle, Brian Geraghty, Tamara Tunie, Peter Geraty and Melissa Leo. There is also an odd scene featuring James Badge Dale as a cancer patient/philosopher.The Alan Silvestri score is effective, as is the soundtrack featuring the somewhat obvious songs from Joe Cocker, The Rolling Stones and Cowboy Junkies. The issues with the script are minor and it is recommended in spite of the Bruce Greenwood factor. Every frequent movie goer has their acting nemesis and Greenwood's presence usually indicates a disappointing movie for me ... not the case here.
Greetings again from the darkness. Will Ferrell has been everywhere the past few weeks making promotional appearances as golden voiced, perfectly coiffed Ron Burgandy. He clearly enjoys this character and is proud (deservedly so) of the franchise he created with business partner and director and co-writer Adam McKay. The first Anchorman was released in 2004 and nine years is an unusually long period to wait for a comedy sequel. But it's not like either Ferrell or McKay need the money.The original Anchorman has reached both classic and cult status. It is one of the most frequently quoted movies from the past decade. Having such a loyal following means guaranteed box office success for this sequel. So while I found this one somewhat lacking, the true Anchorman fans will embrace it ... as proved by the loud laughter throughout the theatre.The gag to get the doofus gang back together centers around the 1980 development of Global News Network - the birth of 24 hour news. The Ron Burgandy gang is all back: Paul Rudd as Brian Fantana, David Koechner as Champ, and Steve Carell as Brick. Christina Applegate also returns as Veronica Cartright, but sadly has only a few scenes. Newcomers include James Marsden as Ron Burgandy's professional competition and Meagan Good as the station manager. Kristen Wiig weirds out as the soulmate for Brick, and the bus load of cameos arrives for the gang fight at the end ... kind of a spoof of the 1979 cult classic The Warriors.I will never criticize a movie that makes so many people laugh. However, I will admit to finding only a few giggles in the two hours (including the Dan Issel reference). It did strike me that many of the best jokes and gags would be difficult for anyone under age 35 to "get". Period humor abounds. The best jab at the news industry occurs when Ron Burgandy says "Why do we need to tell people what they NEED to know? Why can't we tell them what they WANT to know?". That kind of approach would have fit the cerebral humor I could appreciate.
Greetings again from the darkness. Always the cameraman first, director Steven Soderbergh plays homage to the films of the 30's and 40's (especially "Casablanca") with this black and white telling of Joseph Kanon's novel.Soderbergh is really the star here as his use of fixed camera and boom mic's combined with stunning lighting provide some insight into what film-making of that era and this era combined would be. As in the past, the B&W does more for some actors than others. George Clooney looks good (big surprise there) and Tobey Maguire looks impish and goofy. As a matter of fact, as fun as it is to see Batman and Spider-Man on camera together, Maguire played his character so over the top, that I was actually relieved at his road traveled.Proving to be a near reincarnation of Marlene Dietrich or Greta Garbo, Cate Blanchett really shines here as the misguided heroine. Although she has few actual lines of dialogue, her "look" is so wonderful, it matters little. I kept waiting for her to break out in a song while in the tavern.Decent support work provided the rarely seen Beau Bridges and veteran Jack Thompson are a nice touch and the actual news footage of the war parade and the summit with Truman, Stalin and Churchill is more than a bit creepy.The only thing preventing the film from a higher rating is the almost lame, near boring story. We never connect with Clooney or Blanchett and feel like cheering when Maguire's lines mercifully end. A bit more of the Bridges character and an earlier explanation of Blanchett's motivation would have gone a long way in drawing the audience in.
Greetings again from the darkness. Ben Affleck loves cameras. Doesn't seem to matter to him if he is front or behind. As a director, he still tries to be the star. The heavy handed camera work throughout the film really detracts from a decent story that could have benefited from a more seasoned filmmaker. Enough already with the swooping shots from the helicopter, and the grainy night shots showing the tough street types. Nice work from a film a student.On the other hand, brother Casey does a very admirable job as the lead in this multi-layered story that really doesn't hold surprises, but is fun to watch unfold. Casey's deadpan delivery, stoic stares, monotone mutterings and baby face features combine to give a unique look to our hero. This plays well against the liveliness of the stunningly talented Michelle Monaghan and the heavy screen presence of Morgan Freeman and the manic frenzy of Ed Harris. Young Casey is the calm in the eye of the storm.Other nice supporting turns are from Amy Ryan, who shows us how not to win mommy of the year; Amy Madigan and Titus Welliver. Additionally, director Ben flashes some of the ugliest humans this side of the Springer show or a Michael Moore documentary. Some would be right at home in the State Fair freak show. That part was more gruesome than the actual violence.Most certainly this is not at the level of "Mystic River", "Good Will Hunting" or any Scorcese film, but the screenplay is interesting and worthy of film ... and lacking only a pro's touch behind the camera.
Greetings again from the darkness. As usual, high expectations often lead to disappointment when it comes to movies. Being a huge Coen Brothers fan, I can happily re-watch just about any of their films at just about any moment (exceptions would by The LadyKillers and Intolerable Cruelty). Despite a tremendous cast, "Burn After Reading" just seems to go nowhere, I didn't have much fun getting there! The two best characters in this one are Brad Pitt as a perky, dim-witted personal trainer (replete with Vanilla Ice/Eraserhead hair) and John Malkovich as former CIA agent Osbourne Cox. In A-typical Coen Brothers fashion, most of the other characters pretty much fall flat ... in an over-the-top kind of way.The amazing cast is completed by Tilda Swinton playing Malkovich's bitchy wife who is sleeping with/dominating George Clooney's character, who is a paranoid sleazeball and seems to have no real purpose other than to also be sleeping with Frances McDormand, who is partnering with goof-ball Brad Pitt to blackmail Malkovich out of $50,000. Richard Jenkins is the fitness center manager who has a quiet crush on McDormand and is fed up with Pitt.There are some funny moments and certainly a couple of pure Coen Brothers scenes, but the story and the characters just don't seem complete, which is the biggest surprise and disappointment. I can only assume that Ethan and Joel felt the same way, and that the J.K. Simmons character speaks for them when he speaks lines such as "Well we really don't have much, do we?".
Greetings again from the darkness. We all miss Mulder and Scully. The show was very well done and it takes us back to the days prior to reality TV give-ups. Still, there is something very sad about this film. It reminds me of watching an old-timer's baseball game. It is great to see the familiar faces, but sad that it's not what it used to be.Here director Chris Carter gives us a simple, rather dull extended series episode. The only difference is that Mulder has been in seclusion for years ... growing a beard (which I guess is supposed to shock us). I felt this was a cop out. Spending his days cutting newspaper articles and hanging them on the wall puts him about 30 years ahead of the curve. Scully, now a dedicated medical doctor, is still caught up in a system that won't let her do things her way.The only real energy in the film comes from comedian Billy Connolly, who is not funny here at all. Actually, he is pretty creepy. But he does an excellent job of playing the psychic who draws Mulder back to earth. Too bad Connolly's character didn't have more to do.Shockingly, we are mistreated with the casting of two god-awful actors in Amanda Peat and Xzibit. What was Carter thinking? Every scene with these two is just plain horrible. They don't make Mulder and Scully look cooler ... they just make everyone look like they have never made a movie before.Best part is the cool theme song (though it doesn't get used enough). The rest needs to go back into retirement until a real script is born.
Greetings again from the darkness. I am not familiar with director Aaron Schneider, who apparently has done mostly cinematography work on TV for the past 10 years. He must feel like a lottery winner getting to direct his first feature film and having a cast with Robert Duvall and Sissy Spacek.This is a very odd film centered on the story of 1930's Tennessee backwoods recluse Felix Bush, played exceedingly (no surprise) well by Robert Duvall. We learn - slowly - that Felix has been in a self-imposed exile carrying enormous guilt over an incident from 40 years prior. The wonderful thing is that it takes us just about the entire film to discover what caused this guilt and how Felix has dealt with it.Over that 40 years, the legend of old man Bush has grown with the town people. It is approaching Tall Tale status when he whips up on a local wise-ass on one of his rare visits to town. When Felix realizes that stories have been concocted about him over the years, he heads to local funeral home to arrange a "funeral party" where everyone can come and tell their stories. The local mortician is played by Bill Murray and I can best describe his personality as eager opportunist.While this appears to be a slow moving story, it really isn't. The real motivation for the party, a reconnection with the past and a cleansing confession all play a part in this fine story. Sissy Spacek plays a painful link to Felix' past, as well as a key to this latest/last event.Three excellent performances by Duvall, Spacek and Bill Cobbs really make this one work. Bill Murray and Lucas Black hold up their end by supplying a bit of humor and purity, respectively, though the story really belongs to Duvall. His ability to convey emotion with a grunt or facial expression is just amazing to watch.My only real complaint with the film is that it lasted about 2 minutes too long. The perfect ending had occurred and then we are dealt one final, seemingly forced scene. A minor quibble with a film that kept me fully engaged.
Greetings again from the darkness. Ahh, finally! I was beginning to wonder if 2011 was going to produce a film that I could whole-heartedly recommend to both cinephiles and casual movie goers. Writer/director Alexander Payne has delivered a gem. And in a giant surprise, it stars George Clooney as a guy going through real life stress, and in his own words, "just trying to keep his head above water".Clooney plays Matt King, a lawyer in Hawaii who is also the trustee of a family land trust. Only this is no typical family land trust. It involves thousands of pristine Kauai acreage that has been left untouched for hundreds of years. The endless stream of "cousins" want him to sell to a developer for hundreds of millions. The locals don't want him to sell as they believe in the spiritual nature of land, not the green backs of hotels and beachfront homes. And Matt only wishes this was his biggest problem.Matt's fun-loving wife has been injured in a speed boat accident. She is in a coma and the prognosis is not bright. She also has a living will that states no life-support, which is another of the problems Matt must face. Additionally, he must re-connect with his two daughters. See, Matt has been the workaholic attorney that has left the child-rearing to his wife. The two daughters prove to be more than a hand full for the clueless Matt. Scottie (Amana Miller) is the youngest, and is struggling with how to react to the state of her mother. Alexandra(Shailene Woodley) is off at boarding school in hopes that she can be tamed from her wild ways. These three must come together and really bond for the first time.Those three problems would be enough for any one man to handle, but Matt receives one more bit of information. Turns out his wife was having an affair at the time of her boating accident. So, "having a bad day" seems a little insufficient for Matt's situation. At this point, the movie takes an odd turn and almost becomes a mini-road trip movie. Matt, his two daughters and Alexandra's off-beat friend Sid (Nick Krause) take on the mission of informing friends and relatives, while also tracking down the "other guy".It may seem like I have given away much of the story, but in fact, all of that has been discussed in one of the trailers. What sets this film apart is how this web of stress is handled by Matt and daughters. The story is based on the novel by Kaui Hart Hemmings, and the screenplay is co-written by Payne, Nat Faxon and Jim Rash. Watching Matt as he struggles through each decision and situation makes us pull for him, even though he really isn't anything special ... he's not all that friendly or charming (a rarity for a Clooney character), and certainly no parent of the year.Alexander Payne has given us "About Schmidt" and it's been 7 years since his last feature, "Sideways". Both of those films and this one give us a character on the brink ... full crisis mode. Some of his characters lash out (Paul Giamatti in Sideways), while others turn to introspection (Jack Nicholson in About Schmidt). Here, Clooney's character seems to have many decisions to make, but the biggest one is reconnecting with his own soul and being the kind of man he needs to be, for himself, his daughters and the sacred land.The characters and story are so effective that you will find yourself tearing up in the same scene where you laugh out loud. And that will happen more than once. Few filmmakers can walk the high wire between comedy and drama better than Payne. We connect with these character as they are real people ... we KNOW these people. And we know excellent filmmaking when we see it.
Greetings again from the darkness. The creative forces behind this film provided plenty of doubt about the possibility of the film actually being any good. With a resume including the new "Pink Panther", "Cheaper By the Dozen" and "Just Married", director Shawn Levy has done little to show he can produce a wide ranging comedy. Surprisingly, "Museum" is just that! This film can be enjoyed by all ages and it is a wild ride with many laughs and visual gags for everyone! The usually hard to take Ben Stiller pulls his one act routine again, but somehow it works this time. Luckily for him, he is surrounded by more visual hyper-activity that has been seen since "Jumanji". Speaking of which, Robin Williams is actually very effective as the come to life wax figure of the great Theodore Roosevelt. Williams plays the part pretty straight forward and is very touching in moments. The comedy act is aided by Owen Wilson and Steve Coogan as a pair of dueling cowboys and Romans ... trust me, it works.In a very interesting side plot, octogenarians Dick Van Dyke and Mickey Rooney are pretty funny as museum employees with a secret plot of their own. Van Dyke is especially effective and helps us remember what a comedy talent he has been for over 50 years. Yes, he still has that great VOICE!! Also outstanding in a limited role is Ricky Gervais from "The Office". He so out-Stiller's Mr. Stiller.This film is a chance for parents to take their kids to a fun filled adventure with comedy for all ages. It is not some lame animation rip-off, although it does a bit of stealing from Madame Tousseau and Jumanji, but it is original enough to make it fine. The animals and T Rex are very well done special effects and provide a nice balance for the here-we-go-again beginning with the loser dad (Mr. Stiller) trying to be good enough to justify spending time with his kid. Luckily we don't get much of that and most of the time is in the museum. What a ride!! By the way, there is a "Brokeback Mountain" reference by Owen Wilson that caused my biggest movie laugh in years. Very few will even catch it.
Greetings again from the darkness. Far and away my most anticipated film of the year, "No Country ..." does not disappoint. So many are complaining about the ending. Personally, I couldn't care less. The journey made this one fulfilling and extraordinarily satisfying. It is remarkable film making from the Coen Brothers, who stay faithful to the source material while injecting their own style and fiendish touches.In the mode of "Blood Simple" this film moves along at a torcherous pace and offers up some of the most gut-wrenching, tense scenes ever filmed. The visual aspects of the desolate Texas countryside (actually New Mexico) compliments the isolation of each of the three main characters: Tommy Lee Jones, Javier Bardem and Josh Brolin. Additionally, one must enjoy the amazing sound production here from the smallest of details (coin flip) to the surround sound overload of Bardem's air gun.The acting is among the best we will ever see on film. Tommy Lee Jones' hang dog face is so perfect as the dry and sly witted sheriff. Even the way he seems defeated by good news is purely a pro in action. Javier Bardem is not as well known to American film audiences, but to understand his greatness, check out "The Sea Inside". His Beatles haircut and stoic evilness are chilling to watch as he holds true to his code and his mission. He defines relentless, even through the final scene. Although the film is filled with terrific performances, Josh Brolin really stands out. This man is certainly on a career roll right now thanks to "Grindhouse" and "American Gangster". Here he is just an everyday guy who stumbles on a drug deal gone way bad. His own personal code ends up creating havoc in an otherwise bland world. Just the way he moves is tells us all we need to know about his thoughts.Each of these very different men stay true to their own code. They are true blue men who lead very different lives but in their heart know there is one right way to be a man. Just great stuff from great filmmakers. I haven't even mentioned the supporting cast with Barry Corbin, Tess Harper, Woody Harrelson and Kelly Macdonald. We just couldn't ask for anymore for the cast or the filmmakers. So whine about the ending if you must ... me, I am just thankful for this work of art.
Greetings again from the darkness. "Uneasy lies the head that wears a crown". Shakespeare wrote those words for Henry IV, but director Clint Eastwood's latest film depicts the sentiment for Chris Kyle, the Navy SEAL sharpshooter known as "Legend". Screenwriter Jason Hall adapted the story from Kyle's memoir (co-written with Scott McEwen and Jim DeFelice).You may not be aware of the sniper's role during a war. In an early scene (used in the trailer) we experience the incredibly stressful moment of decision that Chris Kyle (played by Bradley Cooper) faces as a mother and young child enter the street  are they a threat to the platoon or not? The decision means killing a woman and child or risking the death of many U.S. soldiers. If he is wrong, he faces a jury and military shame. Most of us lack the capacity for such decision-making. As a flashback to Kyle's childhood shows, most of us are either sheep or wolves. Only a very few are sheepdogs with the aggressiveness to protect the flock. Chris Kyle: sheepdog.The story takes us through Chris' aimless young adult years on the cowboy circuit. He's a tough guy who likes to drink and party with his friends. September 11 acts as a call to action, a call to service. SEAL training is shown and the point is made that Chris is the old man in the group, but he displays a quiet leadership trait. We then witness his flirting with a snippy Taya (Sienna Miller) at a bar counter as his SEAL buddies throw darts at each other's bare backs (don't try that at home, kids). Soon enough Chris and Taya are married, and Chris is called to the front.Back and forth we go through Chris Kyle's four tours. His expertise in war is offset by his inability to adjust to family life. He has a compulsion to serve and to protect his fellow soldiers, but he is unable to fit into the suburban life of cell phones and grilled hamburgers. Not surprisingly, Taya struggles with his struggles. Bradley Cooper gets to be the legend, while Sienna Miller is the emotional mother who has seemingly lost her husband  not to death, but to an obsession to serve.The film does little to explain why Chris Kyle is exponentially more productive than other snipers, and even less to explore his PTSD and mental anguish outside of the front. It's Bradley Cooper's acting that provides us what insight we do get, and he does a remarkable job capturing the hulking, uncommunicative giant who doesn't really understand the "legend" title  he's just doing his job and following his nature.The tragic end is handled with grace by Eastwood, and it left my full-capacity movie theatre as quiet as a church during prayer. It's possible to be a legend, but not a hero, and the movie makes no political statements regarding war or foreign policy. What it does show is that most of us are not sheepdogs.
Greetings again from the darkness. I seriously thought about not putting any comments down about the film version of Elizabeth Gilbert's best selling novel. The reason? The movie just really annoyed and even angered me. My reasons aren't very politically correct.Julia Roberts stars as a woman who is on a mission to find meaning for her life. Logically, the route to self-discovery is a one year sabbatical with 4 month stints in Italy, India and Bali. Already, I am irritated ... Rarely does one need to GO somewhere to FIND their self. If this were necessary, the world would be even a more screwed up place because "dropping out" for a year means we leave our responsibilities, friends and loved ones behind.Speaking of loved ones. Julia's character is on a mission to prove she has worth beyond that derived from being partner's to a man. So here is her track record over the 2 and a half hours. She dumps her husband who loves her. She dumps the boy toy whose bed she immediately fell into after the divorce. She spurns her Italian interpreter and a lonely Texan and finds herself on a beach with a naked party boy. She spurns Javier Bardem ... at least until she reconsiders and realizes that this is JAVIER BARDEM! For someone trying so hard to prove a man isn't necessary, she spends an inordinate amount of time WITH men.I realize this was an Oprah-blessed book, but the amount of whining, self-indulgence and narcissism was beyond my tolerance level. Even the choice of director seems pre-fab: Ryan Murphy of "Glee" fame. Talk about going with today's hot choice.Caught in the web of thankless supporting roles were Billy Crudup, James Franco, Richard Jenkins, Viola Davis and Hadi Subiyanto as Ketut, the toothless guru. This guru reads Julia's palm and she immediately decides to throw her life away. When they meet again, this guru doesn't even remember her! Seriously, you don't need a guru to tell you to follow the golden rule, that if you give love it will come back to you, and make some time for yourself.OK, I will admit the film captured the beauty of Italy and Bali. And the music mixture of Neil Young and Mozart (The Magic Flute) helped ease my pain. But overall, this was a year long journey and I felt every moment sitting in that theatre.
Greetings again from the darkness. There is a certain nostalgia with watching one of the all-time greats succeed again. I would urge viewers not to fall into that simple trap here. While it is an amazing performance by Lawrence of Arabia himself, Peter O'Toole, the movie itself is nothing special and actually a bit sloppy.The first part is mood setting proving to us that Maurice (O'Toole) and Ian (Leslie Phillips) are both old and hating it. Maurice has much more spirit than Ian, but Ian is a bit excited that his 20 yr old great-niece is coming to live with him. He imagines being nursed and pampered ... "without the uniform". Maurice still has a load of romance within even while struggling with his prostate. The running gag is the "type-casting" of O'Toole as a corpse.The film picks up a bit when Ian's niece Jessie (played well by newcomer Jodie Whittaker)appears. Of course, she is nothing like what Ian had hoped and they are both miserable from day one. Maurice immediately falls for her young, off-beat charms and the challenge afforded. Initially it is kind of cute to see the two characters, more than 50 years apart in age, struggle to communicate. However, it quickly disintegrates into a quite creepy, even sleazy situation where O'Toole ogles and fondles the youngster. Not at all pleasant to watch.Director Roger Michell ("Changing Lanes", "Notting Hill") keeps the sets dark and the lighting obvious in most scenes. His direct approach at the topic is what causes the film to fail. Without giving much away, O'Toole gets much pain through his connection with Jessie, but the obvious eventual salvation feels phony and unrealistic.See this one for the performances of not only O'Toole and Whittaker, but also Vanessa Redgrave, Richard Griffiths and Leslie Phillips. Just be prepared for major-creep factor.
Greetings again from the darkness. Don't really have much to offer on this one other than it would have been more current in the mid 90's. A statement on overindulgence and consumerism during a recession comes across as lame and not funny or poignant.The con is simple. Demi Moore, David Duchovny, Ben Hollingsworth and Amber Heard pose as the "it" family unit whose sole purpose is to be the coolest people with the coolest toys, clothes, furniture and cars. First of all Hollingsworth and Heard (from Zombieland) are 25 and 24 respectively, and do not look like high school students (a movie pet peeve). Secondly, NO ONE would ever believe one family could possibly have ALL of this stuff.The script is all over the place trying to make commentary on the morals of what this grift does to the participants ... both those on the inside and the targets themselves. David Duchovny, to his credit, has a couple of decent scenes, but Demi Moore just comes across as trying way too hard.It was nice to see Lauren Hutton and Gary Cole have somewhat important roles and I did enjoy looking at the great house and cars. But never did I buy into the story or the self-marketing. Nice idea that would have complimented the original Wall Street movie back in the day.
Greetings again from the darkness. Yojimbo translates to bodyguard, but do not make the mistake of comparing it to the 1992 sappy mess The Bodyguard (Kevin Costner, Whitney Houston). This is one of the finest Japanese films ever made, directed by arguably the greatest Japanese director (Akira Kurosawa), and starring one of the top Japanese actors (Toshiro Mifune). It also served as the inspiration for Sergio Leone's classic 1964 western, A Fistful of Dollars (with Clint Eastwood).Based in 1860, we meet the unemployed ronin/samurai (Mifune) wandering the countryside allowing a tossed tree branch to determine the direction of his path. It leads him to a town where the ominous first visual is a dog carrying a human hand in his mouth. We realize this isn't going to be the most welcoming of towns.The town is controlled by rival factions: the Silk merchant versus the Sake brewer. They represent crime lords Seibel and Ushitora, respectively. Our clever ronin decides to play both sides against the middle and ends up hired as a bodyguard by BOTH gangs. As you can imagine, this leads to real problems for all involved.The psychology of (corrupt) power and fear is in play here, as is some dark humor (the coffin maker). The biggest clash comes with Unosuke who proudly carries the town's only pistol. He certainly enjoys the respect and power that comes with that handgun. The samurai are trained to be loyal at any cost, and it's quite interesting to see our protagonist adapt the self-preservation in his new world.Masaru Sato delivers a very unique score - one quite unusual for the samurai genre. Toshiro Mifune has one of the great faces in cinematic history, and Kurosawa is in prime form. This is definitely one to see if you enjoy the best films from all countries.
Greetings again from the darkness. I really liked director James Mangold's two most recent films - Walk the Line, and 3:10 to Yuma. Tom Cruise and Cameron Diaz both have great smiles and look really good in swim attire. Paul Dano (There Will Be Blood, Little Miss Sunshine) is well cast as an off-center nerdy scientist. That's the end of all the positive comments I have for this film.The negative comments are for just about everything else in this summer "blockbuster". It is billed as an Action-Comedy. There is plenty of action, though much of it is so far-fetched and ridiculous. There is almost no comedy. The rapid fire banter between Cruise and Diaz would have been much more effective had it been well written.A quality action movie needs a real force coming from the bad guy. Here, the filmmakers instead provide us with a "is he a good guy or a bad guy" story line with Cruise. Anyone surprised at the real answer? Because of that, we don't have anyone to root against. Some generic Spainish arms dealer played by Jordi Molla (Blow) and the government agent played generically by Peter Saarsgard. Generic is not a word you want associated with your movie.This is Cruise and Diaz together for the first time since the far-superior Vanilla Sky. They both deserve better than this slop, though I feel confident they had a good time with the globe-trotting to Spain, Austria, Jamaica and a few U.S. stops in between. The fun they had filming did not translate into fun for me as a viewer. In fact, as they were driving away, I kept hoping for an ending like Thelma and Louise.
Greetings again from the darkness. Brilliant comedy/spoof/homage co-written by rising star director Edgar Wright and star Simon Pegg ... yes, the team from "Shaun of the Dead". There are so many well written and deftly delivered punchlines here, one can hardly keep up.Supercop Pegg (named Nick Angel ... same as the film's music director) is "promoted" off the London police squad and into a quaint little country village with no history of murder, but the world's highest "accident" rate. Pegg partners up with stereotypical pudgy cop played perfectly by Nick Frost, who also happens to be the police chief's (Jim Broadbent) son. While every town death is casually explained away by the latest "accident" report, Pegg continues to pursue the notion that evil retailer Timothy Dalton is behind it all. Not to give anything away, but Pegg's theories lead to some hilarious dialogue between all parties.Suffice to say, the film combines "The Stepford Wives" with "The Wicker Man" and then proceeds to throw in numerous references to Mr. Wright's favorite U.S. cop film "Bad Boys II". Working equally well as an homage or a spoof, the film does a terrific job of jabbing U.S. buddy films and action films. The shoot-outs are a hoot and it is so amazing to see so few wounded with so many rounds fired at close range.Other support work is provided by Paddy Considine, Bill Nighy and numerous other Wright favs. Don't miss a quick shot of LOTR director Peter Jackson as the slashing Santa or a masked Cate Blanchett as Pigg's ex.Two other notes of interest: look for a quick scene involving a lost goose with Stephen Marchant (one of the masterminds behind "The Office"); and Mr. Wright also directed the best of the fake trailers, "Don't", in the recent Tarantino/Rodriguez release "Grindhouse".
Greetings again from the darkness. I will make no apology for being a fan of the "Pirates" series. This is the fourth film and the best since the first. Though I liked them enough, I felt the second and third depended too much on special effects and the need to overwhelm, whereas this one concentrates more on the colorful characters. This latest entry is also directed by Rob Marshall ("Chicago") rather than Gore Verbinski, who directed the first three.Of course, what really matters is that Johnny Depp is back as Captain Jack Sparrow. And in fine form, I might add. He comes across more clever, witty and less buffoonish than in the previous two. His character is much better as a worthy adversary than a clown prince. In this one, he alternates between matching wits and swords with no less than three characters. First, Geoffrey Rush is back as Barbossa. Only this time, he seems to have gone legit with the King's navy. Next we have Sparrow's long-lost love from Seville played by Penelope Cruz. They also match wits and swords (and facial hair). Lastly, we have the legendary pirate Blackbeard, played with full force by Ian McShane. Were it not a Disney movie, McShane could have made his Blackbeard one of the most frightening characters ever seen on screen. Even with the limitations, he performs exceedingly well.The "plot" of the film involves the search for Ponce de Leon's ship and the much desired Fountain of Youth. The race is on between Sparrow, Blackbeard, the Spainiards and Barbossa who is acting on behalf of King George (a wonderful Richard Griffiths). As always, it's not always easy to tell which characters are partners and which are adversaries. That's half the fun! An interesting twist is that in order to have the desired results from the infamous fountain, one must drink from a specific chalice and include a single mermaid tear. Of course, everlasting youth shouldn't be too easy to achieve. The mermaid sequences are fascinating, though we really only get to know one of them - Syrena played with soulful eyes by Astrid Berges-Frisbey.Thankfully, two long time characters are absent from this film - Orlando Bloom and Keira Knightley. Both were dead-weight that caused major drag in the two most recent Pirates films. Cruz and McShane are infinitely more interesting and entertaining and play off of Captain Jack much better.Speaking of Depp's Jack Sparrow, I would make the argument that this character has entered the rarefied air of film comedy icon. I would put him at or near the level of the all-time best recurring comic characters: Inspector Clouseau (Peter Sellers, NOT Steve Martin), Austin Powers (Mike Myers) and the Little Tramp (Charlie Chaplin). Of course, there are loads of others that have made a name for themselves but are a step below: Ernest (Jim Varney), Fletch (Chevy Chase), Wayne and Garth (Wayne's World), Riggs and Murtaugh (Lethal Weapon), etc. I could go on and on, but you get the idea.As I have stated many times, comedy is such a personal choice that it's always difficult to review. What sets the Pirate's films apart (especially one and four) are the characters combined with action and witty banter. No, it's not for everyone, but if you like this style, it's difficult to beat.
Greetings again from the darkness. Surprisingly, this movie doesn't choose sides in the political hot potato that is immigration reform. Instead, it plays as an intimate story of hope and desperation centered around the daily life of a father and son.The father is Carlos (played by veteran actor Demian Bichir), an undocumented worker in Los Angeles who scrapes by working as a gardener and landscaper for another illegal immigrant. Carlos is raising a 15 year old son who was born in the U.S. They are alone because the mother bolted after discovering the high life available in this great country. Carlos, on the other hand, believes in work ethic and the bond of a handshake. His son Luis (Jose Julian) is fighting the daily battle of the streets - whether to join a gang for respect. Luis shows little outward respect for his hard-working father, who comes home sweaty and exhausted every day of the week.When Carlos' boss approaches him about buying his truck and tools, Carlos first balks because he simply has no money, and he is intent on remaining "invisible". In his case, a simple traffic stop would mean deportation and the loss of his son. After a night of pondering, he borrows the money from his sister and buys the truck. Carlos tells his son that things will soon be better - better house, better school, etc. Luis is dubious and offers little support.The story takes a turn when the truck is stolen by a day worker whom Carlos was trying to help. If you have ever seen Vittorio de Sica's "The Bicycle Thief", you will recognize some similarities. Father and son grow closer as they hunt for the thief. Luis sees his father's thoughtful actions and has trouble processing his calculated methods. The youngster is more about lashing out to show power. It's the only method he has seen at his school. Father knows best comes into play here.The film is interesting enough and the scenes with both father and son are exceptional. As a whole, the film seems a bit empty as we really only get glimpses of the desperation and confusion that these two face every day - in completely different ways. It's directed by Chris Weitz, who has an unusual resume which includes both "Twilight: New Moon" and "About a Boy". His newest film really just reiterates what we already know about illegal immigrants. Some are here to milk the system, while others are here for 'a better life'.
Greetings again from the darkness. OK, the plot device for this thriller is about as sneaky as an 18-wheeler parked in your front yard. And as with most thrillers, the filmmakers took a few liberties along the way. Still, despite the obviousness, it is a fun little ride in the game of cat and mouse between Anthony Hopkins and Ryan Gosling.Gosling is riding a hot streak now and his fast developing screen presence is on full display here ... this time with an exaggerated "aw shucks" drawl that would make Gerry Spence proud. Anthony Hopkins surprisingly plays the psychotic homicidal brainiac. Yeah, I'm just kidding. It really isn't surprising at all. Seems he just about has the corner on this market. Yet, we can't help but chuckle at his planned clumsiness and "wink and nod" approach.Gregory Hoblit directs the two sparring partners and takes the swooping camera motions a bit too far at times. A strong director knows when the actors and script will carry a scene and when it needs a boost. Hoblit's boosts consist of a hyper camera and a near-spoof of over-dramatic Hollywood mood music. Supporting work is interesting led by Rosamund Pike, David Straithairn and an all too brief turn from Embeth Davidtz.So if you are looking for a complicated suspense thriller, this isn't the one. But if you enjoy just a little wicked fun, Hopkins and Gosling deliver.
Greetings again from the darkness. No question the audience for this one is all those women who hold onto the belief that no matter the past, Mr. Right will somehow re-discover what he missed the first time around and come bounding back in and swoop them away in a sea of romance.Sampling a bit from the horribly weak "Serendipity", writer/director Adam Brooks does deliver his best film to date (don't get too excited). Premise is interesting, though hardly believable. Wise beyond her years Abigail Breslin ("Little Miss Sunshine") demands that her recently divorced dad (Ryan Reynolds) tell her the story of his love life and how he came to be as miserable as she thinks he is. With breaks in storytelling similar to "The Princess Bride" (remember little Fred Savage and Peter Falk?), Reynolds proceeds to recount how he blew it with three beautiful and intelligent women over the course of his adult life.Undeniably, the best parts of the film involve the extraordinary performances by these three ladies: Elizabeth Banks, Rachel Weisz and Isla Fisher. I am still astounded that Ms. Banks doesn't get cast more often. I put her in the Gretchen Mol category for most underutilized talent. Although I am not usually a fan of Ms. Weisz, she avoids any temptation to overact here ... even in her scenes with Kevin Kline. She is actually somewhat charming and affecting until her moment of truth. Isla Fisher ("Wedding Crashers") is the new Meg Ryan. She is enchanting and believable in her role as April. The movie perks up when she is on screen.Not sure what to say about Abigail Breslin. She can deliver a stunning line of dialogue like few other child actors. Looking forward to seeing where her career takes her over the next 10 years. On the other hand, I do know what to say about Ryan Reynolds. This dude apparently went to the Hayden Christensen school of acting. He has the blank face down ... except that seems to be his only look. It appears he really didn't understand the story, just memorized his lines. He is the perfect example that eye candy with nothing in the middle just keeps sucking.The story will interest many women and any guy that gets dragged along will at least enjoy the trio of talented ladies.
Greetings again from the darkness. Jon Avnet is a major success as a producer but as a director hasn't had much to offer since "Fried Green Tomatoes" ... that's been a few years. While he stepped in for James Foley, the blame for this garbage must fall squarely on him.Surely somewhere Agatha Christie is rolling over. While this is more thriller than mystery, it has to work on both levels to work. Instead it just doesn't work at all. Al Pacino, in his well-coiffed glory, is running around chewing scenery. The biggest problem is that EVERY single other character is running around begging the viewer to think they are the one behind the big frame-up. Mostly they just look like a bunch of pretty faces who can't act.The always creepy Neal McDonough is well cast as the serial killer who might be wrongly accused ... although there was very little mystery here either. Benjamin McKenzie, Leelee Sobieski, Alicia Witt and Amy Brenneman surely thought their roles looked better on paper. Again, the blame falls to Avnet.Has some similarities to "Phone Booth" but mostly it is just a weak effort that had me giggling or rolling my eyes more often that clutching the arm rest.
Greetings again from the darkness. Dramatizations are at their best when actual footage of the subject or event doesn't exist. They can be an effective way to highlight a particularly interesting story or person with details we might not otherwise access. Richard Kuklinski's story is fascinating and frightening. He is known as the mob's most prolific hit-man/contract killer. Writer/director Arial Vromen has adapted Anthony Bruno's novel for the screen, and wisely cast Michael Shannon in the lead. It makes a nice companion piece to the chilling 1992 documentary The Iceman Tapes: Conversations with a Killer.The movie is dominated by the hulking presence of Shannon as Richard Kuklinski. Shannon is no match for the physical size of Kuklinski, but his movements and the camera angles capture the powerful and imposing monster that he was. If you are unfamiliar with Kuklinski's story, he killed somewhere between 100-250 people. His missions were carried forth in cold-blooded, heartless and widely disparate manners. Additionally, he often dismembered his victims and froze bodies and parts to prevent the actual time of death from being established. He was good at his job, but hardly a good guy. But wait! Not so fast ...Kuklinski was also a husband a father of two daughters who made up what appeared to be a lovely, normal family in suburban New Jersey. This guy had an internal switch he flipped from the street to the dining room table. When he was captured, his wife and daughter claimed they had no clue what he did for a living (he had told them he was in Finance). Sure, they admitted to his having a wild temper and even threatening his wife a few times, but they never once considered that he was a cold-blooded killer by day and neighborly barbecue dad on weekends.Winona Ryder plays Deborah, Kuklinski's wife. Before you roll your eyes, you should know that Ryder is exceptional in the role. Her tease in Black Swan gave us hope she had returned to form, but this turn displays the talent we always knew was there. The always dependable and creepy Ray Liotta is perfectly cast as Roy Demeo, the mobster for whom Kuklinski worked. The scenes with Shannon and Liotta together are bone-chillingly frightening. Chris Evans (light years from Captain America) plays fellow hit-man Robert Prongay aka Mr Freezy. Kuklinski credits Prongay with valuable insight into poison and disposal of bodies. It's heart-warming to see that even contract killers have support groups. Other support work comes courtesy of David Schwimmer as Josh (Demeo's right hand man), Robert Davi (as Leonard Marks. Demeo's link to the family head), James Franco (as one of the hits), and Stephen Dorff as Kuklinski's incarcerated brother Joey.Childhood flashbacks give us the table-setting necessary to understand the balance of nature v nurture in the Kuklinski household. Still, no matter how much abuse or misery one has a child, it's difficult to comprehend the stoic evil that possessed Kuklinski. And to be clear, Michael Shannon's performance is his best yet ... and that is saying a great deal. He has become one of the most interesting actors - one who can take the lead as he does here and in Take Shelter, or as a scene-stealing supporter in Revolutionary Road, Mud and the upcoming Man of Steel (as General Zod). He's not a flashy actor, just an extremely talented one.Vromen captures the gritty feel of the nearly three decades of "family" life in a manner that reminds of Kill the Irishmen ... the Ray Stevenson take on Danny Greene. The atmosphere and inner turmoil are similar, but there is no comparison the Kuklinski evil. Should you doubt this, I would highly recommend the documentary previously mentioned. Watching the actual dead eyes of the real Richard Kuklinski as he talks about his life is beyond horrifying.
Greetings again from the darkness. Much ado about screenwriter Diablo Cody's stripper past. If this script is any indication, maybe stripping should be mandatory for all Hollywood writers. It is funny, touching and moving ... all with a major dose of reality and social commentary. Director Jason Reitman ("Thank You For Smoking") has a definite feel for human angst when life delivers one of its many blows. Cody and Reitman deliver a fascinating story and an entertaining film at the highest level.Ellen Page (kinda creepy in "Hard Candy") plays Juno, a spirited 16 yr old who winds up pregnant after seducing her best friend. Because of her age, Page's performance will probably not receive the notice it should. It is among the year's finest. Her sharp with and telling eyes and deadpan delivery make Juno someone we instantly care about, but not in a sappy way. Anyone with this much soul and spirit warrants our interest. Michael Cera ("Superbad") plays the track star-unlikely lover-boy, who maintains a sense of cool despite everything. Cera is fine casting, but the whole track star thing was impossible to buy for any guy who has ever run at all. Still that one minor quibble doesn't drag the film down at all. Some of the best scenes in the film are Cera and Page together, battling through teenager emotions.What takes this film to a whole other level is the peak behind the suburban utopia with Jennifer Garner and Jason Bateman. Unable to conceive on their own, they take out an ad and end up in the middle of Juno's world, and part of her hard life lesson. Garner flashes NONE of her usual annoying perkiness and is actually quite serious and focused on her somewhat unlikeable character. Bateman plays the guy who got forced into playing grown-up and is now looking for a way to escape. Pretty good stuff without going over the top.Juno's parents are played well by Allison Janney and JK Simmons, and her friend and confidant is played by the up and coming Olivia Thirlby. Thirlby and Page will team up (literally) again in next year's "Jack and Diana". Rainn Wilson, from "The Office", has a couple of hilarious lines ... also seen in the previews ... but doesn't show up again.Yes, any film whose soundtrack includes Mott the Hoople and Velvet Underground gets points for coolness. This film has to be put in with the "small" films that dedicated film lovers live for, but the masses rarely even hear about. Of course, due to the subject matter, it isn't for everyone ... but it is extremely high level story telling, with terrific acting and direction. One of the year's best for sure.
Greetings again from the darkness. Well it's mid-February and the hope is that this is the worst movie I will sit through all year. It's a waste of talent and utterly senseless ... which would be fine if it happened to be funny. Somehow the writers and director manage to mash-up a spy thriller, action film, buddy film, and romantic comedy into something that is none of those and a slap in the face of the viewers.This one is directed by McG, whose first two theatrical films were Charlie's Angels and Charlie's Angels: Full Throttle, both of which had more and better action sequences than this. It stars three very attractive people in Chris Pine, Tom Hardy and Reese Witherspoon. Their job is to continue to look attractive, sparkly eyes and all, in each progressively more absurd scene. Chelsea Handler is tossed in as Witherspoon's married friend, who doles out horrible and trashy dating advice in what sounds like a lousy stand-up comedy routine. Angela Bassett, a normally fine actress, is totally out of place in her couple of scenes as the must-be-angry boss. Til Schweiger (Inglourious Basterds) is the generic bad guy.The movie bookends two lackluster action sequences that make little sense and are not much to look at. In between, we have two best buddy co-worker spies competing for the affections of the same girl, who is taking advice from some nasty, jealous friend. All of that is done with little action, no suspense, minimal comedy and absolutely no logical sense. Did I mention that the three leads are all very attractive? One of the minor details that really irritated me was a scene in a giant video store where Pine and Witherspoon are debating the hierarchy of Hitchcock films. In and of itself, that would be fine. But this conversation takes place in front of a display of multiple copies of Hitchcock's "The Lady Vanishes". Multiple copies. Probably more copies than Amazon has in stock. Throw in an escalating series of outlandish dates, a multi-million dollar bachelor pad for Pine, buddy dialogue that makes Riggs & Murtaugh or Tango & Cash sound like Lincoln and Douglas.This is evidently supposed to be an action flick for chicks. There is gunfire and muscles coming from two attractive spies who both love the attractive woman who is desperate to be loved. This means flop.
Greetings again from the darkness. OK, if you are seeking cinematic genius, no need to check this one out. On the other hand, if you enjoy a good scare, a creepy story and a really messed up bad guy ... the latest reincarnation of Freddy Kreuger may be just what you have been dreaming of.The list of Elm Street alums is pretty impressive: Johnny Depp, John Saxon, Laurence Fishbourne, Patricia Arquette and of course, Robert Englund. Sadly, the new one only gives us a bunch of mid-20's types as high schoolers (yes, STILL a pet peeve of mine), though Kate Cassidy is the daughter of former pop star David Cassidy, and Rooney Mara is Kate's sister. Kyle Gallner and Thomas Dekker are familiar enough and wear sufficient bleary-eyed make-up to help us forget their real ages.Of course, the real stars here are Freddy and the dream sequences. We get a decent enough scrip without the total camp of the later Elm Street films. The first time director is Samuel Bayer, who made his name as a video director. His eye for visual effects and camera shots is a plus here. I really enjoyed some of the spectacular individual shots, even if the overall flow was a bit choppy.Wes Craven's original creation lives on through the fine work of Jackie Earle Haley as Mr. Kreuger. Many will remember Jackie Earle as the dirt bike riding center fielder in the first "Bad News Bears". He is all grown up now and experiencing a really nice career revival. He possesses the necessary creep factor to pull off this nastiest of nightmares.
Greetings again from the darkness. Watching "The Guardian" is like reading the latest John Grisham novel. You know what's going to happen and even how it's going to happen, but you just can't stop yourself. Think of this as a blended version of "GI Jane", "An Officer and a Gentleman", "Top Gun", "The Perfect Storm" and a bit of "Bull Durham".It is nice to see Kevin Costner transitioning well into the middle-aged roles. His last two films even have him in a relationship with women around his age (Joan Allen and now Sela Ward). I still have difficulty watching his sulking, smirking, strutting same old stuff, but hats off for no longer pretending to be 35 years old. Ashton Kutcher, on the other hand, seems perfect in the cocky young buck role - every bit as good as Cruise was in "Top Gun" (which really isn't saying much). The supporting cast is decent with Clancy Brown (terrific as the prison guard in the great "Shawshank Redemption"), John Heard and relative newcomer Melissa Sagemiller (Kutcher's love interest).For director Andrew Davis ("The Fugitive" and the underrated "A Perfect Murder") the saving grace for this film is not the acting, but the action sequences and the Coast Guard training scenes. Watching the swimmers endure in-the-water torture is very uncomfortable but effective. The best scenes are the real rescue scenes as the wave pool looks pretty real most of the time.Yes, it is very predictable and yes we have seen most of it before, but it is entertaining and interesting enough to keep you munching popcorn for a couple of hours. Just close your eyes during the mushy parts!
Greetings again from the darkness. Cited as one of the films that begot the French New Wave, this one cuts straight to the nerve if you were ever mis-understood or felt isolated as a kid (and who wasn't?). Knowing that it's a semi-autobiographical presentation from director Francois Truffaut makes it all the more poignant. Truffaut was a troubled youth and (like many of us) used his love of cinema as an escape, and to provide hope for his future. His mentor, the famous film theorist Andre Bazim, died just before this (Truffaut's first) film was released ... it bears a dedication to Bazim.Jean-Pierre Leaud plays 12 year old Antoine Doinel, a boy who just can't get a break at home or school. Labeled a troublemaker (the film title translates "to raise hell" or "to live a wild life") by a lazy, cruel teacher, and treated as a lost cause and unwanted burden by his tight-sweater-wearing mother (Claire Maurier, over 80 and still acting today) and stepfather (Albert Remy). Antoine's days are spent reading Balzac, watching movies, and dreaming of escape. A couple of unfortunate incidents spiral out of control and he ends up first in jail and then in an "observation center" for troubled kids.The beauty of the filmmaking is evident in most every shot ... and there are some amazing extended takes. The overhead scene of the PE teacher "losing" students as they jog through the city is humorous and insightful. The puppet scene in the park is an extraordinary long take of kids' innocent and mesmerized faces, and the extended shot of Antoine running through the countryside is a cinematic first. Above all of that is the famous ending shot - a zoom in to freeze frame of the young boy caught between land and sea (past and present).Truffaut and Leaud teamed up for four more projects featuring the same character, Antoine Doinel. In 1962's Antoine and Colette, he finds first love. 1968 brings Stolen Kisses and true love. 1970's Bed & Board has Antoine getting married, and finally 1979's Love on the Run brings divorce and life after a failed marriage. Other than the "7 Up" series, I can't recall a movie character being tracked in real time for two decades in multiple films.The French New Wave also included directors such as Jean-Luc Godard, Claude Chabrol, and Jacques Remy (who appears as a policemen in this movie). These filmmakers used realism to tell their stories at a time when Hollywood was using icons such as James Dean and Marlon Brando to express rebellious youth. This makes for an interesting comparison and fun analysis. Whatever your preference, Truffaut's first feature is clearly an exciting development for cinematic history.
Greetings again from the darkness. OK, so I was extremely surprised to be the only male in a theater with 30 plus viewers. I had not once previously thought of this as a chick flick. In fact, it is quite a weighty relationship expose' and that explains the lack of present men. What is surprising is that while the film is about the ever-so-slow crumbling of a marriage, there is no blame placed at the feet of any one person, as is so often the case in Hollywood.You might have already guessed that this is no upbeat, loosie-goosie rom-com. Rather, it is a bleak look at a marriage that starts with good intentions and fades into misery. On the plus, we witness an acting clinic by two of today's absolute best ... Ryan Gosling as Dean and Michelle Williams as Cindy. Dean is quite the oddball romantic as he strums his ukulele and quivers "You Always Hurt the Ones You Love" in a bit of foreshadowing. Cindy, on the other hand, is a bit more ambitious and has dreams of medical school.The two meet by happenstance in the hallway of a nursing home when Cindy is visiting her grandmother. Immediately, there are sparks and after Cindy's macho boyfriend proves his true rotten self to her, she becomes more enamored with Dean. When an unexpected pregnancy occurs, Dean is pretty quick to stand up for Cindy and they set off to build a life together.Flash forward 6 years and Dean has changed very little, while Cindy just seems totally beaten down. They both cherish their precious daughter Frankie (played by newcomer Faith Wladyka) but their relationship is nowhere, gone, kaput. Even an attempted one-night getaway to a themed hotel doesn't provide the relief they need. Instead, it's the final straw. When Cindy repeats "I'm done" ... we don't doubt her at all.Director and co-writer Derek Cianfrance does a tremendous job with the details and creating the personalities of these two people. Every relationship requires work and failure can be predicted when one gives up and the other pretends all is fine. This one probably won't save any marriages, but it is worth seeing just to watch Ryan Gosling and Michelle Williams in action.
Greetings again from the darkness (and fog). OK, I admit it. I love this stuff. As a kid, I watched Frankenstein, Dracula and Wolfman movies again and again. The 1941 version with Lon Chaney Jr as the Wolfman is classic horror. Of course, the film itself wasn't really so scary ... instead, it's the possibility of the transition from man to monster and then back again! Director Joe Johnston (Hidalgo, The Rocketeer) stays true to the original story and shows us how far stunts, special effects and make-up have come in the last 69 years. Add in another terrific score from Danny Elfman and you get a few jumps in your movie seat.Benecio Del Toro and Anthony Hopkins are absolutely perfect casting for the cursed father and son. Their transformations work well given their "natural" features ... especially Del Toro, who looks as though he was born for the role.Emily Blunt is the token eye candy, and Hugo Weaving (The Matrix) is the Scotland Yard detective on the hunt. Neither are really given much to do, but it doesn't matter. The fun starts when the full moon arrives.The down side is that the CGI are a bit weak when the creature is on all fours running, jumping and leaping tall buildings. But that's a minor quibble when you consider the set design is breath-taking. Horse and carriage, cozy English pub in a quaint town, and a run down-once majestic castle that houses Mr. Hopkins and family.I applaud the director for remaining true to the roots of the story and not "updating" it ala Twilight to show high school students in 21st century NYC as werewolves. Go in with the right attitude and this one will make for a fun Valentine date.
Greetings again from the darkness. This film has the feel of a Disney movie where the story is just too unbelievable for real life. The difference here is that it is the TRUE story of Chris Gardner. Sure, the story is entirely from his point of view and the only bits we get of his wife are as an angry, bitter, fed up Thandie Newton who just boils over with disgust at her life with Chris.The pleasure in this film is watching the scenes with Will Smith (as Mr. Gardner) and Jaden Smith (his real life son). The spirit of these two and the perseverance the display are very uplifting. Nice support work is offered by Dan Castellanata (voice of Homer Simpson) and Kurt Fuller.Director Gabriele Muccino steps into his first mainstream Hollywood film and does a pretty good job in most scenes. The "action" scenes of Smith running in the streets are a bit hokey, but I really enjoyed the more personal moments. Overall, pretty good film of an amazing story. Also, don't miss the real Chris Gardner walking past Will Smith and his son at the end ... during the best "knock-knock" joke ever!
Greetings again from the darkness. Admitting a weakness is the first step. Yes, I am a proud, long-time fan of this series. My soft spot for these films began when I was a kid - mesmerized by the 1968 original, while watching from the back seat of the car, as the clunky metal speaker hung on the window and my parents sat in the front. Oh, and yes, I was wearing my pajamas! It's pretty much impossible to describe the technological advances in movies since Charleston Heston stumbled into one of the biggest shocker endings the movies have ever provided (and that was 46 years ago!). Heck, the advances since the 2011 movie with James Franco is staggering to see. The combination of real actors, CGI and fantastic motion capture technology make for a realistic look that is unsettling at times.Many know the work of Andy Serkis (Gollam, King Kong) who is considered the master of motion capture acting, and here he returns as Caeser, the leader of the apes. Only this time, he has real competition, especially from Toby Kebbell as Koba, his friend who was previously mistreated in the lab by humans ... thereby explaining their opposite view of the few remaining humans.This entry from director Matt Reeves (Cloverfield, Let Me In) picks up 10 years after the 2011 movie. The apes have established a very cool community in the forest, while only a few immune humans survived the lab-born simian virus that was leaked. The apes have continued to get smarter and even have their own culture and code (apes don't kill apes). The surviving humans have fought amongst themselves and only recently organized a faction with Gary Oldman's Dreyfus as their leader. Malcolm (Jason Clarke) takes a small group over the Golden Gate to see if they can reignite a dam which could produce the energy so desperately needed in human town.Almost immediately, humans and apes meet. The big philosophical chess match begins with Malcolm and Caeser negotiating for cooperation and peace, while Koda and Drefus see war as the only solution. Alliances are drawn, fragile accords made, loyalties are questioned, and hierarchies crumble. See, it turns out the apes are like us, and we are like the apes.There is a terrific battle scene, but the real joy here is the personalities and look of the apes. It is fascinating to watch the interactions ... and that final shot is startling! The only downside is the caricature of Carver played by Avecedo. He is the token human d-bag but his character is so over the top it ruins most of his scenes. Luckily, there are very few ... and they are offset by the really cool horse dismount displayed by Caesar. If you buy into this, it's a tension-filled jolly good time.
Greetings again from the darkness. Stunning photography highlights this Disney documentary and provides a glimpse into some of the harshness of animals that live in the wilderness. For anyone over 40, Disney and Mutual of Omaha's Wild Kingdom provided much of our insight into wild animals since our childhood ... back when there was no channel dedicated to National Geographic or Nature or Animal Planet.What always fascinates is just how difficult the circumstances are for many of these majestic creatures. Watching the elephants trudge for days, nearly delirious from lack of water, is oh so painful. But their nighttime battle against the lions is thrilling.Some of the underwater shots are breathless. The mama and baby humpbacks are beautiful and watching the great white shark attack its prey is every bit as chilling as "Jaws". The most amazing scenery for me was the breathtaking views of the Himalayas. I had never seen such detail of the vastness of the range.Don't think most young kids today will be too excited by this one, but it surely is one of the most beautifully photographed documentaries I have ever seen.
Greetings again from the darkness. No apologies will be made in regards to my fondness for mob, organized crime and hit-man movies. The underworld grit and quest for power makes for a colorful and meaty topic for books and movies. Still, with such a long and varied history of mob tales, we have come to expect a certain amount of action and a turf war for power and control. Director Andrew Dominik, working from a George V Higgins novel, delivers an artsy look at the emotional side of mobsters and then adds a heavy-handed slap of political and economic editorials.We never knew hit men and mobsters TALKED so much! So often they are portrayed as men of few words who specialize in suppressing their emotions. Here we get Mickey the hit-man, played by James Gandolfini, as a man lost in booze and sleazy sex-for-pay. He has clearly lost his once sharp edge and now loves to tell stories that do nothing but showcase his lack of resolve. We get a few talky scenes with local criminal Johnny Amato (Vincent Curatola) and his small-time recruits Frankie (Scott McNairy) and Russell (Ben Mendelsohn). We even get a talky high-stakes card game stick-up where mob guy Markie (Ray Liotta) tries to negotiate an end to the heist.By far, most of the blabbing comes from mob fixer Jackie (Brad Pitt). It matters not whether he is in the car with the Driver (Richard Jenkins), in a bar with one of the punks, or in the hotel with schlubby Mickey, this guy just talks incessantly. Luckily for us viewers, the dialogue is extremely well written and often entertaining, but it still boils down to too much emotional baggage ... especially from a guy who likes to kill 'em softly (from a distant).The individual pieces of the film work very well. Ben Mendelsohn, who was so frightening in Animal Kingdom, is terrific here as the strung-out hoodlum always looking for a quick score. Liotta adds a sense of humor and realism, Gandolfini dominates the screen, and Pitt proves once again that he is at his best in a tough/bad guy role, rather than as a strutting poser.Where the movie goes wrong is with the obnoxious and numerous attempts to make sure we catch the parallels between the US economic woes and those of the mob. The faceless "committee" mob clearly symbolizes our government's inability to make wise decisions, and if somehow we miss all of that ... Pitt's final monologue spells it out for us. It's always frustrating when the individual parts are greater than the movie as a whole, but an artsy looking mob film that beats us upside the head with a 90 minute message just can't overcome the coolness of Brad Pitt and Johnny Cash (The Man Comes Around).
Greetings again from the darkness. Hollywood is a true believer in the theory that imitation is the greatest form of flattery. The constant attempts to capture the same lightning bolt in the same bottle would be kind of funny, if not so frustrating for us movie-goers. Liam Neeson's surprise hit with 2008's Taken spawned not just a Taken sequel, but now two movies from director Jaume Collet-Serra - this one and the disappointing Unknown. Oh well, it's easy money for Neeson and it's not the worst early year release.It's been 20 years since Liam Neeson's Oscar nominated performance in Schindler's List. Rather than a great actor, he might best be described as a familiar screen presence ... a guy we can somehow relate to most of the time. Well, at least until he unleashes his particular set of skills ... this time in an airplane lavatory! The set up for this thriller is quite promising. Neeson plays an alcoholic US Air Marshal looking and sounding quite beaten down by life in the first few minutes. Once on his flight, he receives a text informing him that someone onboard will be killed every 20 minutes until $150 million is transferred into his account. It's a combination hijacking, extortion, whodunnit murder mystery and blackmail story. Unfortunately the three first time screenwriters (one of whom "wrote" for the WWE) botch every possible twist and turn. With a plane full of suspects, we play right along with Neeson as he begins the process. We've enjoyed the claustrophobic approach to movie thrillers before in such movies as Flight, Air Force One, Flightplan and even Phone Booth.For whatever reason, this plane never feels cramped and the tight spaces only come into play with the aforementioned lavatory fight scene, and even that seems like the most spacious airplane restroom of all-time. Even the multiple drop-dead deadlines aren't really played for full effect, and the decent supporting cast isn't given much to do, save for looking suspiciously at Neeson.Julianne Moore co-stars, but mostly her role consists of disbelieving stares and a tilt of the head. Corey Stoll (House of Cards) gets a few juicy scenes, as does the always interesting Scoot McNairy. Unfortunately, Oscar nominee Lupita Nyong'o, Shea Whigham, Michelle Dockery (Downton Abbey), and Nate Parker have little to do, and the absolute wasting of Anson Mount is a crime.If you are skittish about flying, there is no reason to see this one, though the convoluted motive and lackluster reveal might help you forget the story takes place on an international flight. The one thing we do learn is that Liam Neeson can take a fire extinguisher to the head and bounce right back up without a mark. Let's add that to his particular set of skills, while we less than anxiously await yet another collaboration between Neeson and this director coming in 2015.
Greetings again from the darkness. Full disclosure: I have not read the novel by Chuck Palahniuk (who also wrote Fight Club). While very impressed with many elements of the story, I must say I was a bit disappointed in the film. Rather than seize the comedic elements or go very dark, it just kind of idled away in the middle - not too funny, not too dark ... which I find odd for a film with so many extremes! Sam Rockwell is perfectly cast as the sex addicted, lost soul who is desperately trying to discover his family roots by tricking his mostly dementia riddled mother, played strangely by Anjelica Huston. He draws two others into his attempts - his best (and only) friend, played very well by Brad William Henke; and the best character of all played by Kelly MacDonald.Scenes featuring both Rockwell and MacDonald are hands down the film's best. They really play well off each other. Whether attempting to capture the moment in the hospital chapel or alternatively caring for Rockwell's mother, we sense that these two could actually be soul mates in a very sad kind of way.While there are many tasteless themes throughout, I must admit most were handled well - though again, deeper humor could have certainly helped. Additional supporting work was provided by (first time) director Clark Gregg (in an awful wig); (daughter of John Phillips) Bijou Phillips as one of the more interesting on screen milk maids; and a very unusual role by Joel Grey (Cabaret) as the leader of the sex addicts group.Such fascinating material deserved a better treatment on screen, but Rockwell and MacDonald (and the supporting cast) prevent it from being a total waste.
Greetings again from the darkness. So many are up in arms about what this movie isn't, that they have lost sight of what it is. If you are expecting a political drama and biography detailing the finer points of one of the most impactful and controversial world leaders in history, you will undoubtedly be disappointed. If instead, you accept this as a creative way to tell a story and glimpse at a once powerful person struggling with her place in history, while simultaneously fighting the daily battle against Alzheimer's, then you too will be satisfied with more than the towering performance of Mery Streep as Margaret Thatcher.Lady Thatcher is one of most controversial political figures in modern history. Pundits fall to pro or con in regards to her 3 terms (11 years) as Prime Minister. Writer Abi Morgan (Shame) and director Phyllida Lloyd (Mamma Mia) don't take a side in the argument. Instead they offer us the viewpoint of an elderly Lady Thatcher struggling to avoid "going mad". Her daily battle includes numerous flashbacks to specific moments and events. Through these episodes, we take a quick trip through history ... almost a Cliff's Notes version. Additionally, we see how she regularly "sees" and speaks with her husband Denis (Jim Broadbent). Yes, he died years ago. It seems she realizes this, but enjoys the comfort of having him nearby.During the flashbacks, we get a feel for her early onset ambition, which evidently came from her dad the grocer (and small town politician). He encouraged her to work hard, be different and think for herself, while never backing down from her beliefs. This seems hard-wired into her personality through the years as she fights the male establishment and climbs the "greasy pole" of British parliament.The brief segments on the Falkland Islands, Parliamentary debates, and tough Labor Union stance will probably leave you wanting more details on how she negotiated her way through some very unpopular decisions. The best suggestion is probably to read some of the endless stream of documentation in print regarding her time in office. But don't let that distract you from an unusual and interesting film. Plus, you certainly want to catch another world-class performance from, whom I consider, the greatest actress in film history.
Greetings again from the darkness. There are probably three distinct groups that view this as a "must see" movie. First, there are the hardcore science lovers  especially those dedicated to space and time. Next would be the core group of Sci-Fi aficionados (those who quote and debate the specifics of 2001: A Space Odyssey, Blade Runner, The Matrix, etc). And finally, those cinephiles who anxiously await the next ground-breaking film of director Christopher Nolan, whose experimental and pioneering methods are quite unique in today's Hollywood.Given that I would be laughed out of the first two groups  exposed as less than a neophyte, you may assume that my discussion of this film will not be steeped in scientific or astrophysical theorem. Instead, this will provide my reaction to what has been one of my two most anticipated films of the year (Birdman being the other).Simply stated, the look of this film is stunning and breath-taking. Its theatrical release comes in many formats, and I chose 70mm. This made for an incredibly rich look with probably the best sound mix I have ever heard. The physical sets were remarkable and as varied as the scene settings: a farm house, a NASA bunker, multiple spacecrafts, and numerous planets. Beyond that, we experienced the effects of blackholes, wormholes and the tesseract. Mr. Nolan's long time cinematographer and collaborator Wally Pfister was off directing his own film (Transcendence), so the very talented Hoyt Van Hoytema joined the team and contributed sterling camera work, including the first ever hand-held IMAX shots. Top this off with Hans Zimmer's complimentary (though sometimes manipulative) score, and Mr. Nolan has produced a technical marvel of which known adjectives lack justice.Take note of the exceptional cast led by the reigning Oscar winner Matthew McConaughey (Dallas Buyer's Club), and other Oscar winners and nominees Michael Caine, Anne Hathaway, Jessica Chastain, Matt Damon, John Lithgow, Casey Affleck, and Ellen Burstyn. Beyond these, we also have David Oyelowo, Wes Bentley, William Devane, Topher Grace, David Gyasi, Collette Wolfe, Timothy Chalamet, and an exceptionally fine performance from Mackenzie Foy (who will forever be remembered as the Twilight child of Kristen Stewart and Robert Pattinson).On the downside, I found myself shocked at some of the dubious and distracting dialogue. At times, the conversations were contradictory and even seemed out of place for the situation, character and movie. In particular, the entire Matt Damon sequence and the Anne Hathaway monologue on "love" both struck me as disjointed and awkward. These and other minor annoyances can't be discussed here without noting key plot points, so that's where we will leave it. However, it must be mentioned that the words of Dylan Thomas are so oft repeated, that the phrase "Do not go gently into that good night" can now be officially considered fighting words.The works of noted Theoretical Physicist Kip Thorne were the inspiration for the story, and even Astrophysicist Neil deGrasse Tyson has come out in support of much of the science in the film. Be prepared for brain strain on topics such as space-time continuum (Einstein's Relative Study of Time), gravity, and the aforementioned wormholes, blackholes and tesseracts. The blight depicted in the first hour draws its look and even some closed circuit interviews directly from Ken Burns' documentary The Dust Bowl (2012). Beyond all of the science and lessons of human arrogance and survival, I found the story to be focused on loss  loss of home, loss of loved ones, loss of hope  and balanced by the remarkable human survival instinct. Christopher Nolan deserves much respect for addressing these human emotions and desires with the overwhelming vastness of space, and doing so in a time when Hollywood producers would much rather financially back the next superhero or even a sequel to a 20 year old comedy.
Greetings again from the darkness. When Guy (Jeremie Renier) states that he can't take care of his son Cyril (Thomas Douret) right now, I felt a rush of anger and disgust. Imagine if you were his 11 year old son hearing those words. Young kids should be able to count on their parents for emotional security above all else. There should be no fear of abandonment ... those are issues no child should be forced to deal with (barring a natural disaster).The Belgium writer/director team of brothers Jean-Pierre and Luc Dardenne have a history of taking on parenthood and childhood in a head-on manner. Cyril is dumped in an orphanage by his dad, and is convinced that he is just misplaced, not abandoned. So being the fiercely determined kid he is, he re-traces his steps from coffee shops to bars to their old apartment. Cyril is convinced his dad never would have sold his treasured bicycle, no matter how desperate for money he was.Whatever confusion and hostility that you think Cyril might experience, once he confronts his dad, the filmmakers display it in the rawest possible form. Cyril is a symbol of need, hiding behind a wall of rebellion. A chance encounter with Samantha (Cecile de France) leads to weekend visitations and the start of an awkward quasi-family life for both of them. Cyril tests Samantha and all other authority figures in every possible manner, often to the breaking point.As a parent, it's easy to spot the vulnerabilities that a child faces before they have the maturity to handle it. We see how easily Cyril falls in with the wrong crowd and how quickly things can get really bad. Luckily for Cyril, Samantha doesn't abandon him. She answers "I don't know" to his question of why she let him stay with her. Although, the filmmakers never let us in on her deepest thoughts, we suspect she was once not all so different than Cyril, and someone stepped up for her.This film won the Grand Jury Prize at Cannes in 2011 and it's easy to see how. It shows how difficult and messy ordinary life can be, but how often things turn out OK, though rarely perfect. Film lovers will recognize Cecile de France from her many films, including the recent Hereafter and the excellent Mesrine.
Greetings again from the darkness. I'm now even further removed from the target demographics than for the first two Hunger Games movies. Regardless, I have read Suzanne Collins' trilogy and have now seen the 3 movies based on her books. Oh, wait. There will be FOUR movies, not three, from her source material. By definition, The Hunger Games: Mockingjay Part 1 is a warm-up act ... it's setting the stage for the finale which will be released in one year.So for this one we get a Hunger Games movie with no Hunger Games. In fact, there is very little combat action at all. Instead, we are witness to the strategic planning and "selling" of a war (think Wag the Dog), replete with short promo videos featuring Katniss (Jennifer Lawrence) as the Mockingjay ... the rallying symbol of the rebels. There is a terrific scene featuring four great actors: Jennifer Lawrence, Julianne Moore (as President Coin), Jeffrey Wright (as Beetee) and the late Philip Seymour Hoffman (as Plutarch). Four great actors in harmony elevating a movie based on YA novels. Pretty cool.With no Hunger Games, the color palette of the film is almost entirely grays and browns. Even Julianne Moore's famous red tresses are toned down to a streaked gray. The bleak look reminds of the Metropolis set, and also makes President Snow's (Donald Sutherland) vivid white wardrobe and beard stand in contrast to rest. Mr. Sutherland has another juicy scene flashing his devilish grin and twinkle. He's another example of the perfect casting, which extends to Elizabeth Banks (Effie), Woody Harrelson (Haymitch), Stanley Tucci, and Mahershala Ali (as Boggs). You should expect much less Josh Hutcherson (Peeta) this time, but a little more Gale (Liam Hemsworth).Jennifer Lawrence proves again that her recurring role as Katniss is underrated from an acting perspective. She is now best known as an Oscar winner, but that doesn't affect the sincerity, emotion and tenacity that she exhibits here.This ending of Part 1 feels a bit awkward, but the break comes at the right time considering how the book is written. If you are a fan of the franchise, just accept that you will be buying a ticket for this move as well as next year's finale.
Greetings again from the darkness. It would be very easy to dismiss this film as a depressing story or a real downer for the holiday season. Admittedly, the timing of its release is a bit odd, but that doesn't change the fact that it's a very well made and extremely well acted film. This is a character study in dealing with grief ... the breathless grief of losing a young child. The story is told with respect, warmth and even touches of humor.Based on the acclaimed play from David Lindsay-Abaire, director John Cameron Mitchell stays true to the individuals within the story. Nicole Kidman plays Becca, who is married to Howie (Aaron Eckhart). The couple are 8 months removed from the death of their 4 year old son who was killed when he chased his dog into the street. 8 months or 8 years. When in group therapy, Becca and Howie meet Gaby (Sandra Oh) who has been in the group for 8 years. Healing has its own timeline for each person. Becca has little use for the "God people" or the group addicts and quickly stops attending. Instead, she spends her time lashing out at everyone ... her husband, her mother, her sister ... even the dog and a lady at the grocery store.Oddly enough, it is her bond with the high school boy who was driving the car that killed her son that helps her break through. She senses his pain and he understands hers. The story does a subtle and terrific job of showing how we are all touched by grief and how it affects the way we live our life. The best scene in the film is with Becca and her mother (Dianne Weist) in the basement. Her mother honestly tells her that "it" never goes away, but it does change. The grief becomes "bearable". That's really the goal.No matter how many books are written on the topic, no blueprint will ever be one-size-fits-all for coping with the void and emptiness from the loss of a loved one. This story shows that if you just keep moving forward and keep connecting with others, the burden will become bearable.
Greetings again from the darkness. Director Jamie Babbit is known mostly for her melodramatic TV fluff and various series. With "The Quiet" she attempts to take a giant leap forward with a dark drama involving incest, child molestation and teen angst ... all the while lost in suburbia.The film is very well acted by Elisha Cuthbert, Camilla Belle and Martin Donovan. Edie Falco (in a haircut reminiscent of 1960's shower caps) is not quite up to the task of the pain-killer addicted mom attempting to escape the secret she can't face. Secrets are the key here as all the principals have theirs and most are forced to put up a deceitful front from friends and family just to get by. Belle does a remarkable job utilizing just her eyes through much of the film. She is an actress to watch as her career expands.With some excellent moments and a very disturbing theme, the film still manages to fall short in its apparent ambiguity in regards to its purpose. None of the characters are likable and despite their situations, none really evoke much sympathy. Yes, the molestation/incest scenes are very uncomfortable and thankfully abbreviated on screen, but the film is at its best with the interaction between kids being kids and all the insecurities that goes along with high school. I was a bit frustrated at the casting, as none of the leads are really of high school age, but their acting is so strong, it can be forgiven.A little bit tighter script and a stronger director probably could have made this a classic drama in its genre. Sadly this one doesn't come close to "American Beauty" or "Ordinary People".
Greetings again from the darkness. British royalty is such easy pickings for film. The pomp and circumstance, colorful characters and dress, excessive everything, and especially the scandals provide an endless supply of material that can be twisted every which way. Director Tom Hooper who was responsible for fine work in the recent John Adams mini-series, takes the story of Prince Albert in a much different direction than one might think by reading history books.Collin Firth does a masterful job of portraying Prince Albert, who falls directly into the role of King after the death of his father George V (Michael Gambon) and abdication of the throne by his brother Edward (Guy Pearce) when he, for some reason, just has to marry the love of his life - a thrice divorced woman named Wallis Simpson (Eve Best). Now from a perspective of scandal, Edward and Wallis aka Duke and Duchess of Windsor, would make a far more juicy movie. Heck, even the story of pending World War with Hitler's Germany would have, and often has, made for a more juicy movie. But Mr. Hooper has chosen to deliver a human drama filled with frailty, doubt, tenacity and hope. Turns out, this was a very wise choice.Prince Albert ascends the throne as King George VI, husband to Elizabeth, whom we knew as the Queen Mother until her death in 2002. The two were the parents of a daughter, who became Queen Elizabeth, the current Queen of England. Yes, we American do struggle with our Royalty and all the re-naming, yet remain fascinated by it. However, it's important to note that this was a much different time. The film leads up to King George's infamous 1939 speech in which he calmly and steadily explained to many nations that England was declaring war on Hitler's Germany.What many do not know is that George suffered a severe speech impediment that caused him to stammer excessively under pressure. As you might imagine, this is a horrible affliction for a war time King! The guts of this story is the relationship between King George and his peculiar speech therapist, Lionel Logue (Geoffrey Rush). There are so many dynamics in their relationship that each scene is like a skirmish between the two. Truly a fascinating progression to behold.A deep friendship based on respect and trust develops and remains through the rest of their lives. More importantly for Britain and the world, Logue guided the King to a strong performance in the most crucial speech ... thereby bringing strength to a nation and commitment from allies. Not sure which of these men was the better leader, but together they were proved very strong.Firth, Rush, and Bonham-Carter are all excellent in their roles, and I also got a big kick out of Timothy Spall as a young Winston Churchill. Mr. Hooper does a remarkable job of creating a very human drama out of a historical period and event. The death march to the microphone is just excruciating in the climatic scene. We can feel the pain of the onlookers and supporters as the will their King to perform. I can only guess that the Queen Mother was instrumental in the development of Rolaids after so many trying moments!
Greetings again from the darkness. Not many people think like Wes Anderson. That's probably a good thing in real life. It's definitely a good thing for movies. He is a creative and distinct filmmaker, though not one with mass appeal. My two personal favorites of his are The Royal Tenenbaums and Rushmore. His previous film, Fantastic Mr Fox, was a solid hit and critically lauded. Now he delivers one that will probably only click with his core fans. It's a thing of beauty ... if you keep in mind that beauty is in the eye of the beholder.Set on the fictional New Penzance Island off the coast of New England in 1965, the movie opens with terrific visuals of the Bishop family's lighthouse/home. Our tour is conducted as if the home were a dollhouse, and our eyes struggle to keep up with the detailed decor. We are struck by the color palette of tans, greens and splashes of red. This will continue throughout the movie.The story centers around two 12 year old misfits: Sam and Suzy. Sam is an orphan and outcast in his Khaki Scouts troop, and Suzy is misunderstood and ignored by her selfish parents, who communicate with a bullhorn and through legalese at bedtime (they are both lawyers). Sam and Suzy are attracted to each other's misery and decide to run away together. This ignites a flurry of activity on this quiet island and showcases two first time actors with remarkable screen presence: Jared Gilman (Sam) and Kara Hayward (Suzy).The "grown-ups" on the island include Suzy's parents played by Bill Murray (a Wes Anderson staple) and Frances McDormand. The island police chief is played Bruce Willis, who we soon figure out is also a social outcast. The Scoutmaster is played by Edward Norton in a regimented weirdness that will have you laughing in confoundment. For such serious topics, Mr. Anderson and co-writer Roman Coppola provide us many comedic moments - both through dialogue and site gags.During the search, other colorful supporting characters get involved. Social Services is after Sam. Tilda Swinton plays Social Services. In one of the few gags, I'll give away, Swinton's character only introduces herself as Social Services. This is a gut punch to a system that is often under-staffed and forgetful of it's true mission. We also get Jason Schwartzman as a very helpful, though slightly seedy, Cousin Ben. Harvey Keitel plays the senior Scoutmaster who is unhappy with Norton for losing a scout. Bob Balaban makes periodic appearances as a narrator ... either for a documentary or for the movie, depending on the moment's need.The script does a wonderful job of capturing how the 12 year old brain works. Some of the scenes with Sam and Suzy are almost like looking a photo album ... exactly the way our childhood memory works. Flashes of moments. The Alexandre Desplat score is heavy on percussion, but it works well with the minimalistic look of the film. It's also interesting to note that this is one of the few movies where it makes sense to have a soundtrack with Benjamin Britten, Hank Williams and Mozart! If you go to this one, keep your eyes open and moving, and your ears receptive. The payoff is worth it.
This does not star Kurt Russell, but rather allows him what amounts to an extended cameo. This work is more centered around the "son of" story line than it is the actual super heroes themselves, thereby failing to deliver the appropriate level of entertainment, and contributing instead, that enigmatic substance known as "kid appeal." I expected more. But having said that, there is more to this work than meets the eye. The story is modeled after the old classic "B" science fiction movies we hate to love, but do. The effects are nothing spectacular, but are still above what you would expect, all things considering. And beneath the camp, lies a stronger feeling, reminiscent of a classic superhero story, yet it still fails to achieve the desired affect; if only marginally.It was entertaining and I still had great fun in watching it.This rates an 8.1/10 from...the Fiend :.
Six weeks ago was The Godfather in a theatre setting. This time it was the sequel, which generated an equal amount of movie bliss. Experiencing these two classic movies on the big screen almost 40 years after release reinforces what great films they are  and how few truly great films get made. We are reminded that a powerful well-written story, world class cast, visionary director, brilliant photographer and stunning composer are all necessary components for movie greatness.This sequel explores three time periods: the journey of 9 year old Vito to the U.S., his rise to power in Little Italy, and Corleone life after Vito's death. Some find the cuts to varying timelines to be distracting. Personally, I find it fascinating and a very effective way to tell the entire story. Watching an almost mute 9 year old Vito land on Ellis Island and transform into a twenty-something community "leader" is one of the more powerful and unlikely events ever seen on screen. Mix that with Al Pacino holding little back as a power-mongering Michael is downright frightening. If you doubt this, look at it from the perspective of Diane Keaton's May, or John Cazale's Fredo.The film received 11 Oscar nominations and won 6, including Best Picture. Robert DeNiro won for his tremendous turn as young Vito. This is early DeNiro  the Mean Streets, Taxi Driver era. DeNiro and Marlon Brando remain the only two actors to have won Oscars for playing the same character. Two other acting nominations went to Lee Strasberg as Hyman Roth and Michael V Gazzo as Pentangeli. Mr. Strasberg was the famed acting teacher whose prized pupils included none other than Al Pacino (who talked him into taking this role). Strasberg was also bequeathed 75% of the Marilyn Monroe estate and there was much scandal after his death when his widow auctioned off most of it.A couple of other interesting points were that most of this script was original for the film, though the background story of Vito was drawn from Mario Puzo's novel. Director Francis Ford Coppola considered casting Joe Pesci as the young Clemenza, but ultimately decided on Bruno Kirby. Dominic Chianese plays Hyman Roth's right hand man Johnny Ola. Chianese has been recently seen in both The Sopranos and Boardwalk Empire. B-Movie mogul Roger Corman plays one of the Senators on the committee interrogating Michael and Pentangeli. Harry Dean Stanton plays one of the FBI bodyguards, and former heartthrob Troy Donahue plays Connie's (Talia Shire) goofy boyfriend Merle. One of my favorite characters in the film is Don Fanucci, robustly played by Gastone Moschin. His strutting and preening always creeps me out and makes me laugh.Besides being the first sequel to win a Best Picture Oscar, The Godfather II is simply one of the finest films ever made. At 200 minutes, it requires both a time and mental commitment, but along with The Godfather, Coppola and Puzo have provided us exemplary story telling through expert filmmaking.
Greetings again from the darkness. Director Roland Emmerich loves destroying buildings. In Godzilla, he crushed Manhattan. The Statue of Liberty was trashed in The Day After Tomorrow. Independence Day saw The White House explode, and, as you would expect by the title, The White House gets pretty banged up again in this latest. We have come to expect summertime big, slightly dumb, action-packed popcorn movies, and this one certainly fits the bill (emphasis on dumb).Relased just 3 months after Olympus Has Fallen, the plot is similar, but the approach is diametrically opposite. Emmerich seems to think he gets a free pass thanks to a steady stream of punchlines ... spread amongst most every character. Hey, it's a parody of action films so if you don't like it, you must not "get it". Unfortunately, we do get it and it's just not that funny ... the action is weak ... the CGI appears shortcut ... and the characters ring hollow. Through it's numerous similarities and tips of the cap, Emmerich seems to beg us to compare it to the class of this genre ... Die Hard (1988). We've all seen Die Hard, and sir, this is no Die Hard.Channing Tatum takes on the lead action role, though he is working with a safety net ... the buddy picture element supplied by Jamie Foxx. Unfortunately Tatum has neither the acting chops or the screen presence to pull off the lead, and Foxx's President Sawyer is simply a poorly conceived character. Tatum's daughter is played by Joey King, who was so good in Crazy Stupid Love. Here she plays the role of smarter-than-adults kid and is clearly designed to be the patriotic heart of the film.For these type of films to work, we need a nasty bad guy. James Woods is fun to watch as he chews scenery as the Secret Service Director gone bad. He holds one of the various personal grudges against the government and the faceless "Military Industrial Complex". Woods' number one guy on the assault team is Jason Clarke, who was last seen in a key role in Zero Dark Thirty (no coincidence, I'm sure). The rest of the supporting cast is pretty much wasted, including a miscast Maggie Gylenhaal, Richard Jenkins, and the always fun Michael Murphy (where has he been?).There is nothing wrong with pure escapism, but rather than compare this to the classic 1988 Die Hard, it really has more in common with this year's A Good Day to Die Hard. If you prefer your White House terrorist attack movies to be serious and full out action, then Olympus Has Fallen is the better call. Instead, if your preference is strained one-liners, an awkward buddy-film and hazy bad guy motivation, then White House Down might do it for you.
Greetings again from the darkness. Director Anand Tucker has a couple of nice films on his resume - "Shopgirl" and "Hilary and Jackie". What attracted him to this lame project is beyond me. The best thing I can say about this film is that the preview is actually more complex than the film ... it at least left you with small hope that maybe it wouldn't be as predictable as it appeared.Amy Adams is a fine actress, actually an excellent actress and usually very likable. She really had no idea what to do with this character and thanks to the assembly-line script, who can even blame her. I won't go into the details here ... mostly because I don't want to think about it ever again.The pace of the film is excruciatingly slow. Matthew Goode is miscast. Adam Scott plays a caricature of a stereotype. John Lithgow is one throw-away scene (I actually felt sorry for him). Don't worry though, you do get to see Amy Adams walking through cow dung in expensive heels, and riding a mudslide in expensive clothes, and wheeling her expensive luggage down Irish backroads and a hail storm. If that sounds cute and funny to you ... then I have been too kind in my description.
Greetings again from the darkness. For me, any new Coen Brothers film is like the biggest Christmas present ... the fun is in the unwrapping. And WOW, does this one have many layers of wrapping paper! Seemingly based on the Book of Job, this is by far the most personal and intimate film in the Coen catalog. Probably has a good deal of autobiographical details from their childhood, though of course, there is much much more. First warning - there is massive Jewish stuff in this one. Not the overwhelming religious part and not the punchline part ... it is the real life details.Can't give much away on this one but there are no shortage of fascinating scenes and images to dissect and discuss. Can our actions bring the wrath of God or as the quote suggests, should we just accept with simplicity the happenings in our life? Ethan and Joel do a superb job of casting fine actors that we recognize, yet lack stardom. There is no Javier Bardem here. Instead Michael Stuhlburg is spot on as the everyman trying to do the right things in life, yet carries a huge burden when things begin to go wrong ... and it just won't stop.One of my favorite characters in the film is Sy Abelman, played with the warmest panache by Fred Melamed. The way he "comforts" Gropnik (Stuhlberg) is sincere, yet creepy and annoying. Richard Kind is quite different as the Uncle who is always in the bathroom and George Wyner is the absolute worst story telling Rabbi in history.While the beginning/prologue is like a short film until itself, the dots are pretty easy to connect. And the best part is seeing the great Fyvush Finkel on screen again. He was a can't miss on the series Boston Public - and is even better here.This one combines religion, family life, relationships, lust, teenage rebellion, grown-up responsibility and just about any other topic you'd like to throw in. In the hands of lesser filmmakers, this one would be a disaster. In the able hands of the Coen Brothers and cinematographer Roger Deakins, it is a near masterpiece.
Greetings again from the darkness. I have shied away from this movie for weeks presuming I would be disappointed. What a wonderful experience director Julie Taymor ("Frida") has created ... regardless if one is a Beatles fan or not. The music and visuals and stories are extraordinary and her vision comes through in that the parts create a whole.Jim Sturgess stars as Jude, a dock worker from Liverpool who sneaks into the U.S. and stumbles into Max (played energetically by Joe Anderson). As one might imagine, there is a scene where Max(well) is utilizing a silver hammer. There are so many small details and tributes throughout that I can't wait for the DVD to tell me what all I missed. Terrific, as always, is Evan Rachel Wood as Lucy. This amazing actress just turned 20 years old and is assembling a remarkable resume. Her talent is exceptional and was on full display in "Thirteen" and has grown as she has matured. She has the ability to look angelic and soulfully wounded in the same film. This young lady will be fun to watch as her career continues. While Sturgess and Anderson are passable in their singing, Ms. Wood's singing here is top notch, especially "If I Fell".Also strong is Dana Fuchs as Sadie, a Janis Joplin like singer whose throaty voice and bourbon swilling are a hoot! Capping the support group are Martin Luther McCoy as JoJo (Hendrix tribute), Joe Cocker in a couple of roles recreating his "Get by with a little help from my friends", Salma Hayak as multiple singing nurses, Eddie Izzard as Mr. Kite and a hilarious Bono (yes THAT Bono) as Dr. Robert in a tribute to Ken Kesey and the electric Kool-Aid.There are too many cool moments to recap here and the film plays like unwrapping mounds of presents at Christmas. It offers a bit of "Moulin Rouge", "Jesus Christ Superstar" and "Tommy", while staying true to the music and the unique vision of Ms. Taymor. There are numerous real life moments recognized in the anti-war stories. I loved the rooftop concert (as in the Beatles final public appearance) and mostly enjoyed the shots inside The Cavern Club in Liverpool where The Quarrymen got their start. Good stuff.
Greetings again from the darkness. Ahhh, the first 2009 script (by Megan Holley) that has the depth, nuances and multiple sub-plots that keep me addicted to movies. Sure one can view this as a simple story of the emotionally struggling sisters who start a bio-hazard clean-up company to connect not just with each other, but also with those who have been the victim of a profound event involving a loved one. It works just fine on that level.Of course, I never make things that easy. For this viewer, I was absorbed in the connection the sisters had to their dead mother. The quest for a glimpse of her one movie of the week performance as a waitress had the sisters trained to stop in their tracks whenever a "waitress" scene appeared on TV. The sisters are played exceedingly well by the extraordinarily talented Amy Adams and Emily Blunt. Their performances lift a really good script to greatness.For most movies, that would be plenty. Not here. Director Christine Jeffs ("Sylvia") gets to play with Alan Arkin as the always scheming father, a quick commentary on the disgusting "solution" of public schools tendency to require medication on less than robotic kids, emotionally empty relationships, and the absolute need of people to connect with others.The fine acting continues with Steve Zahn as the former high school hero turned local cop, whom Adams' character has maintained a long term "bond". Trouble is Zahn's character picked someone else to marry. Clifton Collins Jr adds a wonderful dimension as Adams' possibly new prospect. Mary Lynn Rajskub is just plain fascinating as the lonely lady Blunt thinks she is helping. Being promoted as from the creators of "Little Miss Sunshine", this one offers up a nice story complimented by many quirks that make it stand apart from the masses. Hopefully it will find wider distribution as we can never have enough top notch story telling.
Greetings again from the darkness. On my never ending trek to find quality horror movies, this one had a couple of interesting things going for it. First, it stars Elizabeth Olsen (sister of the twins) who was so impressive in last year's Martha Marcy May Marlene. Secondly, the film was reported to have been shot in one continuous take/shot. From a technical aspect, this is one of the more curious claims and brazen filmmaking attempts one can imagine.Let's start with the fantastic Ms. Olsen. With very few lines of dialogue and being on screen for 95% of the frames, she doesn't disappoint. The camera loves her face ... even when that camera is mere inches away and the lighting is provided by a kerosene lamp or flashlight. She proves very expressive in fear and isn't afraid of quiet, and more rare these days, she isn't afraid to look less than glamorous. Ms. Olsen's future is much brighter than the lighting in this bleak house.The basic story has Sarah (Olsen), her dad (Adam Trese) and her uncle (Eric Sheffer Stevens) returning to the family lake house for some simple rehab and packing, with the goal of putting the place up for sale. Next thing you know, strange noises, a lost key, and dad is bloodied on the floor. The house itself is a maze of doors, floors and staircases, and because the windows are boarded up and the electricity is dead, the limited lighting will have you straining your eyes to make out location and shapes.Directed by the husband and wife team of Chris Kentis and Laura Lau (Open Water), the first 30 minutes of this movie captured my interest and had me on edge. Unfortunately, it kind of unravels and ultimately ends with a disappointing and rather cheap explanation. It's a remake of a 2010 Uruguay film, which was based on a true story from the 1940's. I am not sure if the ending to this one follows the "true" ending. As for the single take, I call BS. There were changes to the blood spatters on Olsen, not to mention numerous times where a "blackout" proved convenient to shift camera gear. Still, the real time feel is a nice touch, as is the minimal use of music ... a rarity in a genre known for blasting crescendos to cue our screams.
Greetings again from the darkness. No doubt headed into this one with inflated expectations of greatness. While the basic theme fascinates me, the execution of the storyline just didn't quite keep my interest. Mostly I just kept asking why. Why do so few people realize what is happening? Why is BB attracted to Cate Blanchett's character (most guys would have run away)? Why is Cate's character attracted to BB (he seems quite dull)? David Fincher is a stud director with a resume that includes Zodiac, Fight Club and Seven. He seems to do what he can with Eric Roth's adaptation of Fitzgerald's short story ... I just felt it needed more detail and more happenings. Our only real glimpse of BB's travels are on the tug boat and those are probably the highlight of the film, next to the uniqueness of the make-up and special effects. Contrast this to the far superior Forrest Gump, also penned by Mr. Roth.Brad Pitt plays the role in a disarmingly quiet mode, while Cate Blanchett and Tarij P Henson go overboard. The New Orleans setting and other set design were outstanding. The flashback scene from the hospital death bed is given a nice twist with Katrina bearing down. Seems to be a movie many would enjoy, I had just hoped for a bit more.
Greetings again from the darkness. Film versions of comic book characters are usually either very well done or not worth watching. This is the odd one that falls somewhere in between. Any adult or older teen will probably consider it a big waste of time. Some younger kids (11-14) will undoubtedly find a hand full of "cool" moments. Of course, overall it has very little entertainment value and is definitely not on the level of the Batman or Spider-Man series.Nicolas Cage, whose hair manages to look worse than ever ... it is actually a relief when his skull bursts into flames, is downright awful as motorcycle stunt rider Johnny Blaze who sells his soul to the devil. By looking at his career, Cage seems to want to be taken seriously as an actor while still playing like he is a kid. That attitude combined with a poor script and amateurish direction lead to mediocre messes like this. And enough with the Elvis obsession. Your impersonation stinks!Supporting work is provided by the eternally untalented Eva Mendes, who was probably not the first choice, but the only actress who would take this dead-end role. Wes Bentley (from "American Beauty" fame) actually looks the part of the devil's son and Peter Fonda as the devil (nice to see him around motorcycles again) has little to do but tap his cane and let his eyes glow. Sam Elliott brings a touch of class to the story as the caretaker with a link to the "mystery".The director of this garbled project is Mark Steven Johnson, who also has "Daredevil" to his credit. That should really tell you all you need to know about what to expect. This one scores as high as a 5 only because it will provide some enjoyment to a small age group of young boys who will think it cool when the head and bike are flaming. For even more torture, stay till the credits and listen to the worst ever version of "Ghost Riders in the Sky" by Spiderbait. Definitely not Johnny Cash or Vaughn Monroe!
Greetings again from the darkness. Finally catching up with this one after it received such critical raves on the festival circuit last year. It's one of those films that cause so many "normal" movie goers to question the tastes of critics. It certainly has the look and feel of a terrific independent art-house film, but as they say, looks can be deceiving.The cast is outstanding and play off each other and the setting exceedingly well. Casey Affleck, Rooney Mara, Ben Foster and Keith Carradine are a pleasure to watch ... they make it easy to KNOW these characters. Daniel Hart's score is the perfect balance of haunting and complimentary - understated at its best. The most exceptional thing of all is the cinematography of Bradford Young. The look of the film is right there with the best of Terrence Malick ... and that amplifies the film's biggest problem. The story is highly recollective of Malick's Badlands, and that's where the shortcomings jump out. There is just not much substance to this story.Writer/director David Lowery is a definite talent, but his dependency on look and feel prevent this one from reaching greatness. We recognize immediately that this can't end well. The only question is how badly will it get for each of the main characters. Crime may not pay, but some criminals just seem to keep paying ... and drag down others with them. For those that enjoy the indies, this is one to catch up with ... and filmmaker David Lowery's best work is still ahead of him.
Greetings again from the darkness. Imagine if Liam Neeson's burned out Air Marshall from Non-Stop was instead a one-time mob hit man who had seen better days. That seems to be the inspiration for director Jaume Collet-Serra's film (yes, he directed Non-Stop as well). When a guy is a drunken mess with no family who speak to him and only one friend  his old mob boss - a nickname like The Gravedigger tends to conjure better days of yore.Neeson plays Jimmy Conlon, the has-been hit-man whose only remaining friend is boss Shawn Maguire (Ed Harris). These days, Conlon expends more effort emptying a glass than fulfilling a contract. Shawn respects their history and does all he can to protect his long-time friend who seems intent on boozing himself to death. As is customary in these "crime doesn't pay" films, things get really messed up in the blink of an eye. Thanks to a wrong place at the wrong time moment, Conlon protects his own son (Joel Kinnaman) by shooting Maguire's misguided son (Boyd Holbrook). Thus endeth the friendship.The script is from Brad Ingelsby who wrote the original script for Out of the Furnace (2013), but most of it is pretty predictable. Still, with an excellent cast and some wildly creative camera work from cinematographer Martin Ruhe (Harry Brown, The American), this one offers plenty on the entertainment scale. The restaurant scene where Harris and Neeson face off is alone worth the price of admission.As you might expect, there is plenty of gun play and swagger, but as the title suggests, mostly it's a game of running and being chased  featuring a crazy car chase. Neeson has an extended public bathroom fight scene with Holt McCallany, and the detective played by Vincent D'Onofrio continues his decades long pursuit of Neeson's character. Bruce McGill plays Harris' right-hand man and Common is a steely new age hit man. Kinnaman's wife is played by Genesis Rodriguez, and the film's most bizarre scene features a grizzled Nick Nolte - you will find yourself asking "is that him or not?" Mr. Collet-Serra has directed Unknown and Non-Stop, so Neeson is quite comfortable working with him, and you should certainly know what to expect going in. The friendship between two mobsters ends the way most do, and it's another take on the blood family vs mob family loyalties. The Gravedigger may have one foot in his own grave, but he also has enough left for one wild night.
Greetings again from the darkness. The film is based on the original screenplay by Theodor Holman and a 1993 version directed by Vincent Van Gogh distant relative Theo Van Gogh, who was shot and killed in Amsterdam. Theo Van Gogh, a renowned journalist, once said "I prefer covering the war between a woman and a man." With this remake, director and actor Steve Buscemi does a wonderful job of doing just that.The set-up is simple enough. Buscemi plays a political journalist whose editor believes has lost his edge and is now assigning him fluff pieces. Enter the fluff piece ... a beautiful actress who is known more for her off screen "romances" than on screen talent. Sienna Miller plays the actress Katya and delivers an outstanding performance; by far, the best of her career. She is all over the place with the role, but stays focused on the internal torment and remarkable people smarts that Buscemi's Pierre is lacking.Along the lines of "My Dinner with Andre" and "Before Sunset", there is an enormous amount of dialogue and interaction between the two leads, who are on screen 95% of the time. Quite a statement in human nature's preponderance to pre-judge others, this is like peeling back the layers of an onion as each character uncovers a bit more about the other over alcohol, screaming and tender moments. Of course, the whole time the viewer is skeptical about which stories are real and which are fabricated or embellished for the purpose of the moment.Really an interesting film and directed with a nice touch by Buscemi, who is also at his usual high level of acting. Don't miss the quick glimpse of the real life Dutch star Katja Schuurman, who was in the Van Gogh version of the film. She is the lady who steps from the limo and greets Buscemi's character. A must see for those who love the structure of scenes with dialogue rather than special effects. And remember, there is always a winner and a loser.
Greetings again from the darkness. I am not much of a fan of director Tarsem's "The Cell" ... found it over the top and a bit full of itself. This one, on the other hand, is a multi-layered visual and spiritual feast! Starring Lee Pace (last seen as the soulful-eyed piano player in "Miss Pettigrew Lives for a Day") as a recently paralyzed stunt man from the "flickers" and newcomer-extraordianare Caina Untaru as Alexandria (a precocious young patient at the same hospital), this film is captivating throughout. Pace wins young Alexandria over with colorful and detailed stories to which we are provided a buffet of colors and settings! There is no shortage of life lessons here, but it works on a few levels. Watching the trusting Alexandria discover the truth and try desperately to save her own innocence is both heart-wrenching and fascinating.This one grabs you from the opening sequence and doesn't let go until the story is completed. David Fincher and Spike Jonze are both listed as Producers and I can only assume are behind the distribution of the film. Hopefully enough word of mouth will spread so that it gets some of the recognition it deserves.
Greetings again from the darkness. Most movies fit pretty easily into a genre: drama, comedy, action, etc. This latest from film festival favorite Lenny Abrahamson is tough to classify. It begins with silly and funny inner-dialogue from an aspiring musician/songwriter (Domhnall Gleeson), transitions into a dark dramady with complex characters and dialogue, and finishes as a bleak statement on mental illness and the music business.That's more than I would typically disclose, but some have described the film as an outright comedy and I find that unconcsionable. If you are expecting a laugh riot, you will not only be disappointed, but are likely to miss the unique perspective provided.The screenplay is written by "The Men Who Stare at Goats" collaborators Jon Ronson and Peter Straughan. Clearly inspired by the late British comedian and musician Chris Sievey (and his character Frank Sidebottom), Mr. Ronson's work with Mr. Sievey is the driving force. It's also the reason Gleeson's character is emphasized over Michael Fassbender's titular character who dons the paper mache head for the bulk of the movie. This script decision probably keeps the film from being truly great.The exceptional and attention-grabbing first 15 minutes set up a movie that dissolves into an exploration of the creative process within mental illness ... Franks states numerous times that he has a certificate (certifiable). There is also an ongoing battle between art and commerce, as waged by Maggie Gyllenhaal's character and that of Gleeson. Social Media power is on full display as this avant-garde performance art band gathers a huge following prior to ever really producing any music.Without seeing Frank's facial expressions, we witness his transformation from mystic/guru to an unstable and socially uncomfortable dude striving for likability, but unsure what the term really means. Must artists suffer for their art? Why does society latch onto the newest social media gimmick? What is creative success and why are so many afraid of it? The film begs these and other unanswerable questions. Certainly interesting, but definitely not 90 minutes of laughter.
Greetings again from the darkness. While comparisons to "Napoleon Dynamite" are inevitable, writer/director Taika Cohen/Waititi actually delivers much more depth than the cult classic from Idaho. The multiple story lines involve family relationships, one on ones, self-esteem and self-discovery. Of course it may also be one of the quirkiest films of all time.Of the two leads, Jemaine Clement as Jarrod and Loren Horsley as Lily, Clement's role is much flashier, but Ms. Horsley steals every scene. She is such a delight and a curiosity on screen. Her crooked smile and expressive eyes are exquisitely charming and as a viewer, we immediately embrace her desire to be loved.Most of Mr. Clement's role is gearing up for his big revenge fight against the high school bully. As with most things in his life, he doesn't handle the moment very well, but it does become his moment of awakening.The family relationship issues are complex and handled very realistically as very little is actually said amongst the individuals. Body language speaks much louder than words. Don't miss the director in the flashbacks as Jerrod's "perfect" brother Gordon.
Greetings again from the darkness. Some of the most powerful moments in film are often very quiet and that is in full display in multi-talented Sarah Polley's fantastic first feature film as a director.The film centers around the latter days of the 44 year marriage of Grant and Fiona and their struggles with the most cruel of all diseases, Alzheimers. Grant, played excruciatingly well by Gordon Pinsent, tries so hard to do the right thing ... even at the expense of his own happiness. Fiona, in what must be an Oscar-nominated performance by Julie Christie, ironically is the one to realize that she needs to be put into a home.There are so many touching, intimate, delicate scenes and subtle performances by the two leads that the film is often difficult to watch. Watching emotional suffering by two apparently decent people is no treat. What is a treat is the expert film-making by Ms. Polley. She has an eye and feel for the story and the layers which add depth to the experience.The most thought-provoking part of the film is the idea that Alzhemiers and real life have some similarities as we often choose to "forget" the rotten points in a long term relationship, while Alzhemiers does the choosing for the person and is not always so forgiving.Must also mention Olympia Dukakis in one of her most grounded roles of all time. She seems to understand that her character is to make a point, not be the central focus. Overall, a tremendous film with outstanding performances which should gather attention for acting, writing and directing.
Greetings again from the darkness. It is really tough to beat a good political thriller with a top notch cast. Director Kevin MacDonald (Last King of Scotland) surely assembles a sterling cast. The script is good, not great, which prevents this from being a classic.Russell Crowe delivers another outstanding performance and really carries the film on his shoulders ... this time covered in long, wavy locks. Supporting roles staffed with the likes of Jeff Daniels, Viola Davis (Doubt) and Jason Bateman. Helen Mirren as the newspaper editor trying to get along with the new owners is pretty over the top and clichéd. Ben Affleck flashes his usual lack of talent and Robin Wright Penn is once again wasted ... though she does have a couple of nice moments. Just wish someone would offer her the roles she deserves. Rachel McAdams is perfectly cast as the plucky, new age online blogger who the grizzly journalistic vets struggle with at first.This is certainly not at the level of "All the Presidents Men" or "The Insider", but it is always fascinating to watch investigative reporters do their thing. Sadly no one under 40 really has any appreciation for what real life reporters can accomplish. TMZ and Over-coverage of the moment's headlines are all we really get these days.Washington DC and Capitol Hill really make a terrific backdrop for a film and the inner-workings of the political relationships are really only hinted at with this story. Still, the twists and turns will hold your attention, even if the final twist isn't really too surprising.
Greetings again from the darkness. Ahh yes, the psychological thriller is my favorite movie genre. Not sure what that says about me. There are so few good ones, at least since Alfred Hitchcock passed on. Director Martin Scorsese often includes some psychological warfare in his films, but with "Shutter Island", he leaps feet first into the world of the criminally insane.This is a very difficult film to comment on because it is crucial that the viewer watch with a clean slate ... in other words, don't let someone toss out some spoilers if you plan to see the film. All I will say regarding the story is that it's fun to watch and my brain was working non-stop the whole time (that's a good thing!). Scorcese uses many different camera angles, close-ups and bright red to go with the island storm. The film has some of the style of his Cape Fear, but even more darkness to the story, as here, EVERY character is a bit off center.Scorsese has, as usual, assembled an excellent cast. Leonardo DiCaprio takes the lead as Teddy. His partner is played by Mark Ruffalo and they "investigate" the disappearance of a patient from Shutter Island - a treatment center for the criminally insane. This is no vacation island and at the center is a civil war fort that houses the worst of the worst. The creepy place is run by Ben Kingsley and Max von Sydow, who could both make afternoon English Tea seem downright ominous.The cast is so strong that Emily Mortimer and Patricia Clarkson are basically limited to one scene each and Jackie Earle Haley continues his resurgence with a wicked one on one scene with Leo. Michelle Williams makes her appearances via flashbacks, visions and sweaty, late night dreams. By the end of the film, her ugly yellow dress was itself a frightening prop.To cap off the mental and emotional turmoil, Scorsese adds an unusual score that at first seems overbearing at odd times, but later reveals itself to have been "right" all along. My favorite shot of the film is at the very beginning when the ferry first breaks through the fog. Funny enough, it was ME in a fog for the next 2 hours!
Greetings again from the darkness. The film is based upon the work of crime novelist Jim Thompson, who is quite famous as a writer and whose works have often been translated to film. This time oft-creepy director Michael Winterbottom is in charge and comes pretty close to creating a masterpiece. Unfortunately, the bits that fall short, very nearly ruin the film.Psychological crime thrillers can be the most fascinating genre (see Inception), but only when the lead psycho is relatable in some sense and the story is complete. Here, Casey Affleck gives an outstanding performance as the dude you don't want your daughter to date. There is a deep darkness hidden behind his aw-shucks facade of innocence and cutesy west Texas drawl.The violence is expected, yet still shocking, when it first rears its head on poor Jessica Alba. We feel the first punch. What happens in this first encounter catches us off-guard and leaves us wanting to know more background on Affleck's character. Instead, we are really only spectators in his plan of violence that seems to have no real goal. Think Natural Born Killers. Heck, even Ted Bundy had a real plan! The creepiness factor is upped a bit since most everyone associated with the crimes seems to suspect Affleck's character, but no one knows what to do or how to stop him. Elias Koteas and Simon Baker (miscast) are two who try. Personally I wanted more of the Koteas character as well as Ned Beatty, who plays a powerful developer against whom Affleck holds a grudge.Bill Pullman is tossed in near the end to help wrap things up, but mostly the ending is as unsatisfying as the rest of the story. It is uncomfortable to watch Affleck's character, so devoid of morals and empty of soul, but it feels wasted on a small town deputy sheriff with no vision. Maybe that's not such a bad thing ... but it makes for a much weaker film.
Greetings again from the darkness. Not sure if this was a social experiment by Mike Judge to see if his work can be successful whether it's funny or not, but one thing is certain ... this one is not very funny.What looked to be a spoof on small business (as compared to cubicle life in Office Space) turned out to be a bunch of short skits more related to marital frustrations. Jason Bateman runs the extract factory and is married to the always great Kristin Wiig, who works at home as a "coupon designer". Though they live in a mcmansion, they have drifted apart in their relationship ... blah, blah, blah. Seen it a million times and NOBODY CARES.When the scheming Mila Kunis sees a way to score big, she lands a job at the factory and flirts a bit with Bateman - doesn't take much these days to get him excited. At the same time, she has at least one other scheme in place ... anyway, the best thing here is the commentary on how cute girls can influence the idiot male species into doing things they wouldn't usually do.Ben Affleck is totally miscast (is that redundant??) as the drug-toting, bartending, life philosopher to whom Bateman looks to for advice. Really? A successful businessman would turn to this stunted growth doofus for advice on anything more than what martini to order? The best parts of the film are the (very) few scenes that take place on the floor of the factory. This is where the real interesting and funny story could have been with just a bit more effort from Mr. Judge. I will say the stuff with Gene Simmons as Joe Adler (the similarities to Jim Adler can't be missed) are funny. Otherwise, I feel let down - like this one was rushed through production off the strength of The Hangover (though not even close to that level). We expect more from you Mr. Judge.
Greetings again from the darkness. (Feb 4, 2007) Very interesting chase/revenge/thriller set 3 years after the Civil War. Mostly it is a 2 hour Mano y Mano in a grueling match of wits and stamina featuring Liam Neeson out to avenge the horrible murder of his family by a group of soldiers led by Pierce Brosnan.Writer/Director David Von Ancken (mostly TV stuff) never really forces the pace and that allows us to feel the pain and agony of those involved. Cold weather, Hot and Dry dessert and lack of food, water and shelter play a role in this game of survival. While there are some elements of "The Edge", mostly it is a very base look at what people will do for survival and revenge.Not without a touch of humor, there is a great line about "owl droppings" and for a great hide and seek trick. The great Ed Lauter makes a terrific cowboy. Lauter has been a character actor for over 30 years. He was so great as the Captain of the prison guards in the 1974 classic "The Longest Yard". Here he isn't given many speaking lines, but his face and eyes say plenty. Also making very odd appearances are Angelika Huston as the moral temptress in the desert and Tom Noonan as a frightening minister with his clan out in the middle of nowhere.But mostly this is about Pierce vs. Liam. My only real problem with the film is why a Brit and Irishman are cast as Civil War vets. Sure the country was still relatively young then, but my guess is most of the home country accents were gone, at least among top officers. Small complaint though as both do a good job and we feel each of their differing pains. Definitely not a high powered action film, but plenty of suspense and some great visuals within the story.
Greetings again from the darkness. Twin brothers Michael and Mark Polish brought us the terrific and bizarre "Northfork" and now follow-up with a near Disney movie of the week. Not necessarily a bad thing, just kind of disappointing since there are so few creative forces in Hollywood these days.Billy Bob Thornton stars as Charles Farmer and likable, small town family man who is chasing his dream of flying his handmade rocket into space. Yes, it is a very real and large rocket. His family becomes integrally involved in the process to the point where he pulls his kids out of school so that they can be Space Team Farmer. We never really get a pure indication of whether the town folks think he is truly crazy or just a bit unstable.Farmer's loyal to a fault wife is played by the talented Virginia Madsen. It was a welcome relief to actually see Ms. Madsen get to act after suffering through "The Number 23" last night. We feel her eternal optimism and feel her love for the man that has her so worried for her family's future. Must mention that the two young Farmer daughters (character names Stanley and Sunshine) are real life sister and daughters of one of the Polish guys behind the film (not sure if it is Mark or Michael). They pretty much steal every scene they are in. Also Mark plays one of the two FBI guys, who supply some comic relief. The other is played by Jon Gries (Uncle Rico in "Napolean Dynamite").Other support work is solid and includes J.K. Simmons as a snooty FAA bureaucrat, Bruce Dern as the odd grandpa, and Tim Blake Nelson as Farmer's attorney. Must also recognize Bruce Willis for his extended cameo as The NASA Colonel and former astronaut.Many comparisons can be made to "The Rocketeer", "Field of Dreams", "Dreamer" and "The Rookie". In other words, there are very few surprises, but it is nice, safe entertainment.
Greetings again from the darkness. Evidently I am one of the few who didn't like the movie, and just to be clear, that doesn't bother me one iota. This is a depressing, non-message movie stuck in an unrealistic setting with characters who we don't care the least bit about. The fact that the American Beauty and Road to Perdition director assembled such a strong cast doesn't override the fact that it is just not a good film.Basically we get a chance meeting at a party between Leonardo DiCaprio and Kate Winslet. Love at first sight seems to happen because he is a longshoreman and she is an actress-wannabe who has never been anywhere or done anything. When she says he is the most interesting man she has ever met, we can only assume that he must also be the first. Besides that ... what does he see in her? Flashforward a few years to a miserable life in early 60's suburbia and a couple of kids and we are then subjected to 90 minutes of screaming and bickering and crying and depression and anger. You know there is an entire segment of the law (and a Tammy Wynette song) just for these situations ... it is called D-I-V-O-R-C-E. Just do it folks. The whole thing is just ridiculous. And where are the KIDS?? They are only in a couple of scenes. Not sure how that happens. I know my kids were around the house most of their childhood.The most interesting character in the movie is the white-jacket worthy son of Kathy Bates played by Michael Shannon (the mysterious marine seen in World Trade Center). His twisted and vile psychoanalysis of Leo and Kate is spot on, though ridiculous in itself.Director Sam Mendes (Kate's real life husband) is blessed to have Winslet and DiCaprio cast or this film would die a quick death at the box office and most assuredly would not end up on any best of lists for this year. Based on Richard Yates' novel, the only explanation I have for the terrific reviews is that they are a product of the reputation of the novel and the high profile parties involved, and not for the finished project of this film. For a significantly better film with similar material, see Todd Haynes' "Far From Heaven".
Greetings again from the darkness. Hard to argue with the box office success when director Ridley Scott teams up with Russell Crowe (Gladiator, American Gangster). Can't really challenge the resume of writer Bryan Helgeland or the acting chops of Cate Blanchett, Max von Sydow or William Hurt. And only the most cynical would deny the appeal of the Robin Hood legend ... stealing from the rich to give to the poor. So why is it that I feel so cheated and let down by this version?First of all, it is presented as a prequel to the legend. This is the story of how Robin and his band of merry men (and Maid Marion) came to be united. If it is a prequel, why then is Robin (Russell Crowe) so darn old? There is even a line in the film noting the advanced age of King Richard the Lionheart being 40 or even more! For the times, this was considered old, yet somehow Robin is ready for a career change.The best parts of the film are the amazing sets and pieces - both the villages and the boats. And we all know that Mr. Scott can film a massive battle scene! There is a touch of Gladiator, Saving Private Ryan and Braveheart in many scenes. All fine, but what I really missed was the flirtatious banter between Robin and Marion. Maybe I am biased, but a Lorena Bobbitt threat doesn't strike me as light-hearted bed chamber conversation.My biggest complaint is with the script. It just felt clunky and messy. A couple of scenes were apparently included just so Mark Strong could scowl ... and he has a great scowl! Other scenes and lines were seemingly included just to give the film a complex feel. Probably too complex for what it really is.Oscar Isaac as Prince John was the funniest and most interesting character in the film. The preview made him look like a buffoon, but the film gave him more depth ... and a couple of great lines. Danny Huston as Lionheart, Mark Addy as Friar Tuck and Matthew Macfadyen as the Sheriff of Nottingham all add to the luster, but remember this is prior to Robin's ongoing battles with the Sheriff.Be cautious with younger kids as it is a strong PG-13. The battle scenes are entertaining, but this is one legend that did not need its roots exposed.
Greetings again from the darkness. Based on the novel by Jo Nesbo, this one quickly sets up the main character Roger Brown as someone we neither trust nor necessarily even like. He is a smooth talking recruiter who steals valuable artwork to (barely) support his luxurious lifestyle which includes a near-super model girlfriend and modern mansion.The film is based in Norway and director Morten Tyldum seems to have a very wicked sense of humor as he really puts Roger (Aksel Hennie) through some things not even found in the worst fraternity or military hazing. While it can be classified as a very taut thriller, it is also a demented ride that would make the Coen Brothers proud. As a matter of fact, it would surprise me if this one doesn't get a U.S. remake very soon. The story and characters lend themselves very well to a star vehicle.However, I don't wish to sell this version short. It is well done and entertaining in a devilish way. When Roger meets Clas Greve (Nikolaj Coaster-Waldau), the real fun begins. Many will recognize Coaster-Waldau from "Game of Thrones" and he proves to be a terrific adversary for Roger. Neither are what they seem, and both seem quite pleasant to everyone else. Roger's girlfriend Diana is played by the beautiful Synnove Macody Lund, and even she brings a nice element of doubt to the story. There is also a nice supporting turn from Julie Olgaard as Lotte.The tone and twists remind me a bit of Blood Simple, but this one is even a bit more outrageous and things spin out of control for the characters. Much of the film is a spent in chase mode and that leads to some drama, thrills and chuckles. That's a pretty nice compliment for any movie.
Greetings again from the darkness. This film may be tough for much of the American audience. There are long stretches of minimal dialogue and more filmed prayer than I ever recall seeing. This is based on the true story of eight Trappist Monks who are caught in the middle between some 1996 fundamentalist terrorists and the Algerian-Muslim village that the monastery serves.The driving theme is the question facing the dedicated monks ... should they remain in the monastery and support the village or should they retreat and live to serve another community. The film does a terrific job of examining the strength of faith among this group who are still just human beings ... men who don't wish to die.The government has ordered them to leave and the military has offered to protect them. The group, led by Christian (Lambert Wilson), decline the military offer and continually discuss the idea of leaving. The wisest of the monks, Luc (Michael Lonsdale), is in failing health. He is also the doctor and can't imagine leaving the villagers with no medical care.Director Xavier Beauvois (Le petit Lieutenant) creates a fantastic scene where the Monks make their final decision to stay. Their dinner and wine event is set to the tune of the Black Swan symphony. Really something to behold as smiles and relief make their way around the table. Of course, as with most of the foreboding hymns sung throughout, we understand that their fate is decided.The sparseness and serenity of the monastery is offset by the inner turmoil each of the monks face. This is presented very effectively but I do think the film misses an opportunity to shed more light on the overall political struggles of the time. We are really left in the dark on these issues and it becomes a very intimate, narrow focus on these 8 men.
Greetings again from the darkness. A documentary about a serious topic that desperately needs more attention would typically receive rave reviews from me. Writer/director Lee Hirsch delivers a final product that emotes sympathy, empathy, sorrow and outrage. What's missing? There are no solutions, no action ideas (other than let's do something), and no examples of what might be working in some schools.We are introduced to, what I hope is, the world's worst Assistant Principal. Maybe her attitude and actions are to represent the poor approach by most teachers and administrators. I am just not sure. We see her mediate a handshake meeting between a bully and his target, and she easily falls for the bully's eagerness to settle, seemingly oblivious to the target's pain. Her meeting with parents is almost comical in the lack of understanding she shows ... preferring to flash photos of her grandchild rather than address the more serious issue.We visit Iowa, Mississippi, Georgia and Oklahoma to meet kids and parents who have been affected by bullies. We also see the aftermath of suicide caused by the helplessness victims feel from incessant bullying. It's not difficult to categorize the kids we meet as "different". One is physically small, weak and not fully developed after being born more than 3 months premature. Another is a lesbian who hides her pain behind a smile. The "difference" seems to be what teachers, administrators, students and even parents are unable to cope.Mr. Hirsch is able to capture some upsetting footage onboard a school bus. The mother of the kid being picked on even states that when she rode the bus as a kid, the driver was in control and kids were required to stay seated and keep still. Today, the kids run the show ... at home, at school, and on the bus. Teachers know they will not receive support from parents and likely to be sued for getting involved. It's a vicious cycle that can lead to tragedy.It would have been interesting to see something other than blue collar families. Is there a class difference in this subject? What about the preferred schools for teachers ... are the results different when the quality of teachers is compared? The film gives the impression that it had a point to make and would do whatever necessary to make that point. That is the Michael Moore school of documentaries. I am by no means saying this isn't a vital and important topic. It definitely is. And it needs to be addressed quickly. I just believe an issues-related filmmaker has a responsibility to tell the whole story.
Greetings again from the darkness. The big debate seems to be whether it is too soon for the Spider-Man franchise to be re-booted. It was just 10 years ago when Tobey Maguire first appeared as Spidey and a mere 5 years ago when director Sam Raimi delivered the last leg in his trilogy. Obviously the reason to re-boot starts with "doll" and ends with "ars". It is more interesting to decide if this is an improvement over the previous series.We must first look at Spider-man himself. Played here by Andrew Garfield, we get a more thoughtful Peter Parker and a more athletic Spidey version than we had with Maguire. As usual, my pet peeve is that Garfield is a 28 year old man cast as an 18 year old high school science nerd. Looking past that, Garfield manages to pull off the stunts without looking too much like a real super hero. So that's a plus. Luckily for him, his scenes with Gwen Stacy (Emma Stone) work because Ms. Stone is such a super talent. She makes everything she is in, just a little bit better.Next we look at the villain. Rhys Ifans plays scientist Dr Curt Connors, who transforms into Lizard in the quest to regenerate growth of his lost right arm. He was once partners with Peter's dad in their research into reptilian genetics. While Doc Ock (Alfred Molina) from Spider-Man 2 is still my favorite villain in the series, it's clear that Lizard is certainly capable of frightening the younger viewers, so parents beware. It should also be noted that Dr Curt Connors was played by Dylan Baker in the Sam Raimi trilogy.Lastly, we look at the story. This take is much more personal and provides detail to the backstory of Peter Parker. We learn how (but not exactly why) he lost his parents (Campbell Scott and Embeth Davidtz) and see how he came to be raised by Aunt May (Sally Field) and Uncle Ben (Martin Sheen). We see how he and Gwen Stacy come together and learn that she is every bit his equal intellectually, if not a notch above. Casting Dennis Leary as Gwen's Police Chief dad works as Leary and Garfield exchange barbs at the table. Peter is still a photographer, but this time for the school instead of The Daily Bugle ... whose logo makes an appearance on TV.Director Marc Webb was somehow selected for this despite his only feature film being (500) Days of Summer ... not exactly a film known for its CGI. Admittedly, the CGI used here is less rush and cluttered than in previous Spidey films and many of the stunts look to be real stunts instead of the fake stuff. The closing credit cookie clearly sets up the sequel, though I can only guess that the shadowy figure is Norman Osborn. That's still up for debate.
Greetings again from the darkness. Steven Soderbergh is a genius with a camera. Just admiring the shots, angles and movement of the camera in his films is worth the price of admission. Here we get a fact-based story from the book by Kurt Eichenwald showing us what happened when Mark Whitacre became one of the most famous corporate whistle-blowers of all time ... he exposed price-fixing at Archer Daniels Midland, the ag-giant.Matt Damon takes this quasi-caricature and turns him into a comedy act along the lines of Jim Carrey in Liar, Liar. OK, I'll admit, there is more subtlety here than in that one. Still, the voice-overs by Damon's character provide the ramblings of a madman - an ADD, embezzling madman.There is so much comedy here that it is easy to forget what heinous crimes the senior management of this company actually committed - and how arrogant to think they could get away with it. This again shows that many in the corporate world are the equals of even the most corrupt politicians. Power and Greed are all-consuming.While, I don't know the details of the real story, it was interesting to watch Whitacre's interacting/playing with the FBI agents (Scott Bacula and Joel McHale). They want to believe him and are actually crushed when his game is exposed.A real Soderbergh touch is the casting of both Smothers Brothers in unrelated roles. Very nice. It is very difficult for me to believe that someone as intelligent and shrewd as Whitacre could actually be so, well, goofy. But it does add an entertainment element to the film. I will say it is not at the level of far superior "The Insider" or even "Catch Me if You Can", but it is quite watchable.
Greetings again from the darkness. Sometimes the dramatization doesn't quite live up to the real thing. Thor Heyerdahl was a very interesting and interested man ... part scientist, part adventurer. We first see him as a fearless 7 year old. As an adult in 1947, his spirit and lust for life led him to undertake a 101 day trip aboard a self-built balsa wood raft. Why? Well to prove his theory that Peruvians settled in Polynesia in pre-Columbian times.The film provides us shots in time as Thor does his research, prevents his findings, tries to sell the story, and finally undertakes the "suicide mission" to prove to the world. On the surface, the trip makes little sense. Thor can't swim and only one of his crew has any sailing experience. It makes for a thrilling trip and one which Thor actually filmed much of ... with the purpose of producing a documentary. The 1951 documentary won the Academy Award and also led to a best selling book.This latest version, co-directed by Joachim Ronning and Espen Sandberg, was Norway's nomination for Best Foreign Language film last year. While the story is fascinating and Thor Heyerdahl is certainly an interesting man, the film just feels a bit empty. It does offer fantastic effects, but we just get teased with the true personalities of his crew. A bit more depth of character would have added an element that elevated this to elite status. Instead, it's very watchable and will probably inspire you to track down the book or the original documentary.
Greetings again from the darkness. An art-house crime drama. That's the best description I can come up with. Danish film auteur Nicolas Winding Refn takes the James Sallis novel and presents it like an art gallery opening ... with operatic tendencies ... and electronic music thumping straight out of the 80's. Confused yet? My apologies, but I am trying my best to make the point that this one is different. No wonder it got such a strong reception at Cannes, where creativity has always been rewarded.Ryan Gosling stars as the nameless driver. He is a movie stunt driver by day and hired lead foot in his spare time. He partners with hustler Bryan Cranston (Breaking Bad) for the odd-jobs and they both dream of going straight by entering the racing world. To do that, they need a capital infusion from bad guy Albert Brooks. Yep, I said BAD GUY Albert Brooks. We all know Mr. Brooks as the wry comedian who makes us laugh at the world. However, trust me when I say he plays a bad man. If you have seen "Out of Sight", you have seen this side before. If not, you will be shocked.Gosling's character is quite the loner, but he falls for his neighbor played by Carey Mulligan, who also has a cute young son. Gosling's dream of normal include not only racing, but also a domestic home life with these two. Small obstacle: Mulligan's husband (Oscar Isaac) is getting out of prison in a week. When he arrives, Gosling agrees to help him square a debt with some bad guys. Things don't go so well and Gosling's dream of domestic bliss goes straight to Hades. Well, actually not all that straight.Somehow the bad guys run a double cross and things get really messy. The middle 60% of this movie is as intense and thrilling as you could ever ask. Some terrific driving stunts as you would expect, but also some very nice "little" scenes as these most interesting characters try to make sense of many horrible loose ends.My mind was racing as I watched this oddly paced, minimal dialogue, intense story unfold. A few films flashed in my mind and I have decided there are elements of each: Bullitt (1968, Peter Yates), The Driver (1978 Walter Hill), Thief (1981 Michael Mann), To Live and Die in LA (1985 William Friedkin), and Heat (1995 Michael Mann). Additionally, Gosling's character shares some traits with Clint Eastwood's 'Man with No Name' trilogy. Now I am sure you are confused. How about one more: Gosling wears a jacket similar to Kurt Russell's Stuntman Mike in Death Proof, only this one has a scorpion and sure enough, we get the scorpion and frog story.Gosling gives a very solid strong, silent type leading man performance, and Mulligan has very little to do. Albert Brooks will probably get some well deserved attention at Oscar time. There are a couple of scenes that more and make this one worth seeing. One is the fantastic chase scene after the pawn shop robbery and the other is the most beautiful and violent elevator scene ever filmed with mood lighting.This one will be loved or hated by those that see it. Hard to imagine it falling in the gray area. If you are up for a twist on the traditional approach to crime dramas, and can handle some brutal violence, I would encourage you to check it out.
Greetings again from the darkness. This is one of those times where, in order to analyze a movie, one must separate from the emotion of the subject matter. In the traditional sense, this is not a great movie. However, in terms of practicality, the true story and characters and their actions, leave us emotionally exhausted and questioning whether any war actually makes sense. The other thing it does is bring to light just what impressive beings these brave soldiers really are.The story is taken from the book (co-written by Patrick Robinson) and real experience of Marcus Luttrell. A Texan and member of Navy SEAL Team 10, Luttrell was one of four chosen for the June 2005 Operation Red Wings ... the capture or kill of al Qaeda bad guy Ahmad Shahd. Dropped into the Afghanistan Hindu Kush mountains, the mission goes horribly wrong once the group is stumbled upon by goat herders. The Rules of Engagement provide guidance that is supported by CNN concerns ... and the decision is made to release them and call off the mission.To say all hell breaks loose after that is simply an understatement. The four SEALs face insurmountable odds that end according to the spoiler title. If you have seen Blackhawk Down or the opening sequence of Saving Private Ryan, then you have some idea of what to expect on screen as these elite soldiers fight for their lives and their country. The intensity and visceral violence is impossible to describe here. The bullets rip flesh and bone, while desperate re-grouping efforts lead to horrendous tumbles down rocky cliffs.The movie begins with a glimpse at SEAL training, followed by a few minutes of base life ... the competitiveness, the bonding, the breeding of fighting machines. Director Peter Berg does allow for a peek at humanity and personality, but the Band of Brothers culture is unmistakable. When one of them states "moderation is for cowards", we never doubt for a second that this is part of their psyche.The four Seals are played by Mark Wahlberg (Marcus Luttrell), Taylor Kitsch (Michael Murphy), Emile Hirsch (Danny Dietz), and Ben Foster (Matt "Axe" Axelson). While they are all believable, this is not an actor's seminar. Neither is it a geopolitical editorial. Partisanship is non-existent here. Rather, we are reminded of the sacrifice that comes with war, and left to decide for ourselves if this approach is the best we can do.The real Marcus Luttrell makes an appearance in the movie ... he is the SEAL that spills coffee and tells the rookie to clean it up. Finally, as director Berg was meeting with the families prior to filming, this quote came from Danny Dietz's father after reading the obituary: "That's who my son was. That's how hard he fought. Make sure you get that right".
Greetings again from the darkness. A bit more British humor would have taken this one to the next level. The voice acting and animation are first rate, but more attention to the script would have meant a lot here.Hugh Jackman (Roddy), Kate Winslet (lovely Rita), Sir Ian McKellan (The evil Toad), Jean Reno (Le Frog) and especially Bill Nighy (Whitey) are all excellent as mice and frogs/toads. Nighy's character is something straight out of "Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels".The animation provides plenty of action and there are a few visual gags along the way (books, doll clothes, DVD titles, etc). The film offers a tip of the cap to "Total Recall", "Waterworld", "Finding Nemo" and many others ... although it did leave a few in the bag.Don't think this one really has the appeal to younger kids that turn these animated creations into mega-hits, but it won't be miserable at all for the parents and grandparents that end up taking them.
Greetings again from the darkness. This is one of those times where I am going to be somewhat critical of a movie that is based on a book I haven't read. That doesn't change my belief that this movie is stuck in the gray area between romantic drama and comedy, and because of it, comes across as just a lightweight film with no real message or emotion. For this, the director Lasse Hallstrom gets the accusatory glance. His history with Chocolat and Dear John are examples of his fondness for all things mushy gets in the way of real story-telling.The best parts of this movie are the comedic elements. Stuffy British fish expert Ewan McGregor has some really funny deadpan moments and his inner office battles with his boss wreak of truism. Same with Kristin Scott Thomas, who plays the Prime Minister's Press Secretary as if she were told this was a screwball comedy. She is funny and over the top, and was probably horrified when she saw the final version of the movie.The story is quite creative and interesting - a Yemeni Sheikh (Amr Waked, Syriana) has a vision of creating a vast green-land around a man-made freshwater river where Salmon spawn and feed the community. Unfortunately, the story leaks to the locals that another Sheikh with too much money is playing God just to satisfy his fishing hobby. Local rebels get involved in trying to stop the Sheikh and the project. Meanwhile, this Sheikh spouts off wisdom and advice as if he just finished reading the greatest hits of Confucious.To bring this project to fruition, the Sheikh enlists the British government's help and that's how Ms. Thomas, Mr. McGregor and a wonderful Emily Blunt get involved. We see early on that McGregor is stuck in a loveless marriage to a witch (figuratively speaking) played by Rachael Stirling (who may have the deepest voice of any actress since Lauren Bacall). Blunt's character is a bit desperate for love and falls quickly for a soldier (Tom Mison) who is shipped off to war. So when Blunt and McGregor first meet ... it seems destiny that these two opposites will attract.The scenery here is pretty impressive - especially the Scottish castle that houses the team for a brief period. I was just continually frustrated that more insight wasn't provided into what makes this Sheikh tick. Is he truly the visionary he claims? If so, why? What did the locals really think of the project and was any effort made to deliver the long term vision? If not, why? Why did Blunt fall so quickly for this soldier? Just because they had fun in bed? Seems a bit shallow for someone who can peer into the soul of a nerd like McGregor. And why did McGregor ever fall for this ice-queen he married? Makes no apparent sense.Simon Beaufoy's screenplay of Paul Torday's novel delivers a few good chuckles, but mostly leaves us wanting a real direction for the story and bit more depth of character. It's always frustrating when a promising premise leaves us fighting so hard to swim upstream ... just like the salmon and characters of the film.
Greetings again from the darkness. I was initially a bit ambivalent about seeing a movie about Marilyn Monroe making a movie. My twisted thinking was that I have already seen the actual film "The Prince and the Showgirl", and this particular story is based on a book by Colin Clark who claims to have had a connection/fling with Marilyn during the production phase of the film. Since I had always doubted Clark's claim, it wasn't until early reviews of Michelle Williams' performance hit Twitter that I started to get interested.For an actor, playing Marilyn Monroe must be similar to playing Elvis. Everyone on earth knows what the real deal looks and sounds like. What is interesting about this film is that it is chock-full of actors playing well known people. In addition to Williams/Monroe, we get Eddie Redmayne as Colin, Kenneth Branagh as Sir Lawrence Olivier, Julia Ormond as Vivia Leigh (Olivier's wife), Toby Jones as Arthur Jacobs, Dominic Cooper as Milton Greene, Karl Moffat as DP Jack Cardiff, Dame Judi Dench playing Dame Sybil Thorndyke, Zoe Wannamaker playing Paula Strasberg, and Dougray Scott as Arthur Miller (the famous writer and Monroe's husband at the time).Michelle Williams dominates the film just as Monroe would have. She mimics the iconic movements, but best succeeds in capturing the essence of Marilyn. History states that Olivier was very impatient with Marilyn and struggled with her irregular schedule and "method" approach to acting (which he abhorred). It is little wonder that Marilyn struggled so with her first and only film outside of the U.S. Many have an image of Ms. Monroe as a ditsy blonde, but there are a couple of well-documented autobiographies that show a pretty shrewd business person and one very aware of her marketable and valuable public image.As for the film, it rates a couple of ticks higher thanks to the outstanding performances of both Michelle Williams and Kenneth Branagh. If not for them, it would be little more than a TV movie. Speaking of, this is the first feature film for director Simon Curtis, whose previous work has been seen on television. Personally, I would have preferred a movie that focused on the making of "The Prince and the Showgirl" or a view of the human side of Marilyn. Here, we get a shortage of each.
Greetings again from the darkness. I thought director Steven Shaimburg's 2002 film "Secretary" was near genius. He showed a terrific eye for the offbeat and wonderful scene structure. Because of that film, I had quite the high level of anticipation for "Fur". When the initial credits roll, we are quickly hit with a disclaimer that this is a "tribute" to photographer Diane Arbus and not a biographical film. This disclaimer was probably demanded by the biographer and the Arbus heirs after seeing the film.The film may have the most whispering and low talking ever recorded in one picture. No one ever really voices any anger or displeasure or elation. Based on Arbus' fascination with a hairy, mysterious neighbor, played well by the great Robert Downey, jr., the film is really a study or statement of Arbus' obvious inclination for those not "normal" ... freaks if you will. Her real photographs show this, although the film gives us little of her real work.The only real supporting roles are Ty Burrell as Vogue photographer Allan Arbus and Diane's mother played by Jane Alexander. The film, however, belongs to Kidman. I will hand it to Nicole, as she does not shy away from bizarre projects (i.e., "Birth" "Dogville", "The Human Stain"). Sometimes she hits, sometimes she doesn't. This one is quite disappointing as we never see the connection that Kidman and Downey's character Lionel (get it?) make. It appears it just as easily could have been siamese twins or a dwarf or any other out of the ordinary type. Since childhood, she has realized her attraction to the unusual, so it seems the goes with the one that falls in her lap! There are some interesting moments, but overall the film is hollow and disappointing. Kidman apparently believed in the project and plays her role to the fullest. Downey is given little to do other than read his lines quietly and not make any sudden movements. I see Shainberg has multiple projects in the works and look forward to better efforts in the future.
Greetings again from the darkness. I was caught off guard by the political incorrectness and comedy and depth of Clint's latest. Say what you will, but this man has turned into one of the finest and most dependable filmmakers working. He is an expert director with a real feel for guiding the viewer.Now the hard part. What to say about his character, Walt Kowalski. Equal parts Archie Bunker, Dirty Harry and Buford Pusser. Walt spews racial epithets like a sports announcer spews superlatives. It will be very uncomfortable at first until you can adjust to his nasty temperament. But guess what? There is a heart of gold beneath the rugged body armour. Sure it stretches the boundary of believability at times and certainly his pet project, "Toad", could have used a stronger actor or better character development. Still, there is quite a dose of social commentary on the developments occurring in neighborhoods across the country ... both racially and politically.Walt's prized 1972 Gran Torina bears a resemblance to its owner. A relic of the past that still has a bit to offer. A couple of my favorite scenes involve Clint and John Carroll Lynch (Fargo) in the barber shop. These guys go at each other hard and with no holds barred. It is laugh out loud guilty pleasure. Also, don't miss Clint's real life son (and the film's music director), Scott Eastwood, as Trey ... the anglo-tough-guy-wanna-be who gets humiliated by both a group of blacks and Walt.So while the viewer is expected to make a few leaps in understanding, and this is not perfection, it is in fact, still very good film making and worth watching. Supposedly this is Clint's final acting gig and I hope that's not true. Sure, the patented grunts and moans are a bit over the top, but the man can still carry a scene and a film. Either way, let's be thankful for his amazing ability to produce quality films.
Greetings again from the darkness. Espionage thrillers can be so much fun in both book and movie form. Movies actually have a little advantage for the action scenes. Books clearly have the advantage in details, backstory and character development. What is frustrating as a viewer is when a movie starts strong and then crumbles under the weight of expectation ... sometimes trying to make a bigger splash than necessary. Such is the case with director John Madden's remake of the rarely-seen 2007 Israeli film "HA-HOV".The story is centered around a 1965 mission of a trio of Mossad agents. Mossad is Israel's CIA. These three agents, Rachel (Jessica Chastain), Stephan (Marton Csokas) and David (Sam Worthington) are to capture the notorious Nazi war criminal, the Surgeon of Birkenau (Jesper Christensen), and bring him back for a proper trial of war time atrocities.Flash forward to 1997 and Rachel's daughter has written a book about the daring mission and the three heroes. The older version of the characters are played by Helen Mirren (Rachel), Tom Wilkinson (Stephan) and Ciran Hinds (David). We are treated to flashbacks of the mission and how things took a wrong turn, but ended just fine. Or did they? There seems to be some inconsistencies with the story told and the actual events that have created much strain between Rachel and Stephan, and life-altering changes for the more sensitive David.This is an odd film because the best story parts occur when the younger cast members are carrying out the 1965 mission. It is full of suspense and intrigue. The intensity and believability drops off significantly in the 1997 version, but oddly, the older actors are much more fun to watch on screen ... especially the great Helen Mirren. I am not sure what all of that really means, but for me, it meant the third act of the film was a bit hokey and hard to buy.Director John Madden is known for his fabulous "Shakespeare in Love", but not much else. His films since then have all come up just a bit short of that very high bar he set 13 years ago. Jessica Chastain continues her fantastic 2011 season adding this performance to her more spectacular turns in "Tree of Life" and "The Help". Sam Worthington is known for his role in "Avatar", but his character here is so thinly written, I doubt any actor could have pulled it off. Jesper Christensen seems to usually play the bad guy and he is in full glory here as a Nazi war criminal with no regrets.The first half will keep you on the edge of your seat, but by the end you will have a somewhat empty feeling. What a shame as this one teased us with much hope.
Greetings again from the darkness. Really been looking forward to this one since I was such a big fan of writer/director Michel Gondry's "Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind". Starring Gael Garcia Bernal, one of the most energetic, fascinating and dangerous actors working today, "Dreams" takes the viewer on a bizarre ride through Stephane's dreams. As if his dreams aren't confusing enough, Stephane's dream girl is his neighbor Stephanie (played wonderfully by Charlotte Gainsbourg.Along the way, we get new vocabulary words that somehow fit (schizometric) and a strange example of vinyl flooring (LP's). In addition, there is at least one scene that evokes memories of Ken Russell's 1975 masterpiece "Tommy". The animation and special effects are very unique, as is the "TV set" that allows Stephane to set the stage for his dream sequences.Yes, there are many moments of confusion and the relationship between Stephane and Stephanie will make you want to yell at the screen a couple of times, but once you realize that Stephane really is unable to distinguish between dreams and reality, the pieces do start to come together.Of course, we expect dream sequences to be confusing, and many of them are actually laugh out loud funny. The problem with the film occurs in the disjointed nature of EVERYTHING. Balancing Stephane's imbalance with a "normal" society or relationship would probably have been more effective. Instead, Stephanie, is just as confused and odd as he is ... only in a different way.Many will argue that the ending is a letdown, but sometimes happy endings just aren't the answer. Luckily, Gondry the writer, realized this and gave us a fitting ending.
Greetings again from the darkness. What is an absolutely critical element to a good whodunit? The answer is "it". By definition there must be an "it" that someone has performed or carried out. Director Paul Thomas Anderson's adaptation of Thomas Pynchon's novel kicks off with a terrific scene that appears to set the stage for a big mystery that must be solved. But don't fall for it  it's really a parody of film noir that depicts the end of the care-free hippie era in southern California. Or maybe it's the beginning of the paranoid era in southern California. Or maybe it's something else all together. Whatever it's meant to be, it is certainly a wild ride with a never-ending stream of colorful characters in strange situations.Many of us consider Paul Thomas Anderson to be one of the true creative geniuses of the film world. His 2007 There Will Be Blood was a towering achievement and complements his other films such as The Master, Magnolia, Boogie Nights, Punch-Drunk Love, and the underrated Hard Eight. His latest veers into new territory and features one of his more outlandish characters in "Doc" (Joaquin Phoenix), a mutton-chopped hippie Private Investigator who never misses a chance to indulge in his marijuana habit. Welcome to 1970 SoCal.It seems new characters and scenarios are being thrown at us in every scene, as Doc readily accepts new cases and new leads  only there really is no case, even though he spends most of the movie looking into things. His efforts find him crossing paths with his ex-girlfriend, the wife of a missing real estate tycoon, the Aryian brotherhood, a sax player who is either a Federal informant or a student dissident, a coke-fueled dentist, an Asian massage parlor, the FBI, a maritime lawyer, his pizza-delivering sometimes girlfriend who is also a District Attorney, a mysteriously named entity Golden Fang, and the tightest-wound/probably corrupt/ TV-acting police detective named Bigfoot.Should you require additional weirdness, check out how many character names come right out of cartoons (Doc, Mickey, Bambi to name a few). Need more? How about a soundtrack that features Neil Young, Sam Cooke, Can's "Vitamin C", and a score from Radiohead's Jonny Greenwood? There is just no describing the shenanigan's other than to say the characters, situations and dialogue are alternatingly confounding and humorous. Our movie-watching brains are trained to follow a plot, but Anderson and Pynchon seem to be laughing in the face of this tradition as we try to assemble the nominally related puzzle pieces.The cast is varied and fun. Katherine Waterston (Sam's daughter) plays Doc's ex who kicks off that first scene, Eric Roberts is the kinda missing rich guy, Michael Kenneth Williams delivers a clue, Benecio Del Toro is the maritime lawyer, Owen Wilson is the sax player, Jena Malone is his clean and sober wife, Reese Witherspoon plays the DA, Martin Short is the horny dentist, Martin Donovan is another creepy rich guy, Joanna Newsome is the narrator and periodic assistant to Doc, Serena Scott Thomas (sister of Kristin Scott Thomas) plays the wife of the missing rich guy who is played by Eric Roberts, and Maya Rudolph (the director's real life partner) is Doc's receptionist  and Maya's late mother Minnie Ripperton sings "Les Fleurs" on the soundtrack. But it's Joaquin Phoenix and Josh Brolin who really take this thing to the edge. It's clear both are having fun, which is the best you can hope for while watching this one.
Greetings again from the darkness. If you are a fan of the 1987 original film directed by John McTiernan (Die Hard) and starring Arnold Schwarzenegger, you couldn't help but be a bit excited about this new one since Robert Rodriguez was involved. What a letdown.With films from Mr. Rodriguez, we have always been able to count on creativity, ingenuity, humor and excitement. This one lacks all. Now to be fair, the director is actually Nimrod Antal, whose resume includes Armored and Vacancy, both of which are as empty as this one.Of course when your cast is minus Arnold, you start with a major handicap. When you replace him with Adrien Brody, you appear to be aiming for disappointment. Sure Mr. Brody did a few sit-ups to prep for this role, but he is no action hero, regardless of how he mimics the Christian Bale Batman voice to seem tough.The rest of the bad luck cast of characters is rounded out by Laurence Fishbourne, Alice Braga, the great Danny Trejo (a Rodriguez staple), Topher Grace and Walton Goggins (so great as Boyd Crowder in Justified, TV's best new series this past season). Just to add to the misery, the film score is simplistic and a bit of a joke itself. It certainly misses the excellent work of Alan Silvestri from the first film.Not much need to discuss the lack of any real new material here. The bad guys are pretty much the same, the weapons are pretty much the same and the cast and script are weaker. The real money with this one lies in a "making of" documentary in which the first meeting takes place and we hear the pitch to make a thrilling new action movie ... a new Predator movie ... starring ... Adrien Brody and Topher Grace!
Greetings again from the darkness. This is writer/director David Michod's follow-up to his excellent 2010 film Animal Kingdom - one of my favorite films that year. While that film took us inside an Australian gangster family, this one is set in a dystopian Outback ten years after "the collapse".Michod's script from a Joel Edgerton story goes pretty light on the details and depends heavily on the shared scenes with Guy Pearce and Robert Pattinson. Both deliver the goods, and Pattinson in particular is quite something to behold ... his gun shot wound plays second fiddle to the most bizarre speech pattern and accent we have heard in awhile. Initially appearing somewhat flawed in his mental aptitude, Pattinson brings his character through a full cycle of emotions. And that is the polar opposite of Pearce's character who though quite stoic, leaves no doubt that he is angry at 3 goons for stealing his last possession - his car.The mood of the film and the tone of the character keep us in suspense on why this blasted car is so important to Pearce, and it's not until the final sequence that the mystery is solved. The more interesting scenes occur when Pearce and Pattinson are facing off - their relationship evolves from adversarial to something kind of touching.The usually dependable Scoot McNairy plays Pattinson's brother, but really isn't given much to do except for his final scene with Pattinson. The most interesting supporting role comes courtesy of screen veteran Gillian Jones as the inquisitive Grandma. She leaves the impression that a film about her would be much wilder than the minimalistic landscape and dialogue of our feature.Michod's latest is not at the level of Animal Kingdom but it does offer a couple of intriguing characters and vastly toned down Mad Max flavor. It's beautifully photographed and the sparse soundtrack is the perfect compliment.
Greetings again from the darkness. Barry Levinson was at one time one of the most creative forces in Hollywood. He was a sizzling hot director with gems such as "Diner", "The Natural", "Good Morning Vietnam", "Rain Man", "Avalon" and "Bugsy". The problem is that his work has been mediocre, if not less, since the terrific "Wag the Dog" in 1997. Yes, almost 10 years. Regrettably, Mr. Levinson's ho-hum streak continues with "Man of the Year" which is much more a stand-up act by a comedian than any type of commentary or observation piece on our political system or either major party.We never doubted Robin Williams' ability to fire off one-liners and jab at people and society. What we doubted, and rightfully so, was his ability to make a point ... any point. The film lacks soul, heart or any real message. It is the perfect politician ... exactly what it pretends to despise.The supporting cast is lead by Christopher Walken, who has somehow become a walking self-parody of Christopher Walken. We get the feeling he is constantly working on his Walken impersonation. Don't get me wrong, it is a very close impersonation ... but just a bit over the top. Lewis Black, on the other hand, seems to "get" what the film should have been about. He has the most passion and best lines in the film. By the way, who cast a real actress? Laura Linney seems so out of place in this "Bulworth" type skit. Not sure what to make of her role, but because of her effort and sterling history, this should have no impact on her career. I mentioned Christopher Walken, so throw in Jeff Goldblum in a limited role and we get two of the strangest dudes Hollywood has to offer.A couple of things that are a bit in the Mad Magazine vein ... Williams' presidential adversaries are named Kellogg's and Mills (haha) and the evil CEO of the corrupt voting system company is played by Steven Jobs lookalike, Rick Roberts (another haha). That is the type of cutting edge humor we get for 2 hours. Would much rather watch the real Jon Stewart. One other thing that made me nuts. Linney's entire role revolves around the "glitch" in the voting software. Nice idea, but the execution and presentation are laughable or ridiculous in their simplicity on lack of logic.Sadly for two talented guys who are both in desperate need of a legitimate film, Levinson and Williams leave us yawning and scratching our head. I felt like Walken and Black's character in the first third of the film as they BEGGED Williams to cut loose and be himself and make a difference. Any of that would have helped!
Greetings again from the darkness. First, I absolutely love this premise. The idea that, by taking a pill, we can simultaneously access all parts of our brain and process information at hyper-speed is fascinating, and a terrific idea for a movie. As it turns out, that terrific premise loses much luster when the center of action is a egomaniacal, smirking doofus played by a strutting Bradley Cooper.The set-up portion of the film is fairly interesting. Cooper plays a stone-walled loser of a writer whose career-minded girlfriend (Abbie Cornish) wisely dumps him as he offers up very little in self-defense. A seemingly random street meet of his ex-brother in law leads Cooper to a whole new world brought on by the magic of NZT. He quickly realizes he can recall every detail he has ever seen or read and he process information quickly and clearly. He finishes his book and learns multiple languages, plays the piano, etc etc.The film takes a wrong turn when he realizes his ability comes in handy in the stock market, as well as blackjack. But obviously if you were in this situation, the first thing you would do is contact a Russian loan shark and take out a giant loan ... and then forget to pay it back. What? You wouldn't? Well then, don't expect to have a movie made about your life.Director Neil Burger (The Illusionist) brings a wonderful visual touch to Cooper's mind and an awesome telescoping zoom rush through the streets of NYC. That was actually my favorite part of the film.The film misses quite a few opportunities to be as smart as Cooper's character is supposed to be. Either the Russian loan shark or the ultra-rich businessman played by Robert DeNiro could have led to Faustian themes that would have provided endless opportunities. Instead, we don't even get a real battle of wits between the parties. Quite a disappointment.Overall, the film is entertaining enough, but a letdown over what should have been. Watching Cooper strut and DeNiro sleepwalk are not enough for me as a movie goer.
Greetings again from the darkness. Not sure how I missed this the first time around, but it was recommended by a friend and I thoroughly enjoyed it. The fight scenes seem very realistic, but this film is more about man's need to be apart of something ... even something that might not necessarily make sense if one were to step back and analyze.The acting is surprisingly strong with Elijah Wood, Charlie Hunnam, Lee Gregory and Claire Forlani delivering performances usually only seen from the big boys. Much of the credit must go to director Lexi Alexander who shows a real flair for tension-filled scenes and getting the most out of an actor.It is a bit of a coming of age story for wimpy Wood as Matt, a journalist major at Harvard who gets expelled when he won't fight the drug charges that his roommate sent him up with. The rest of the film is Wood's search for his backbone. Hunnam proves to be an exciting and dynamic leader of men, who actually does have a soul ... even if it is a bit misguided. Forlani flashes her most expressive eyes and does a great deal with her limited role here. I expect bigger things from her over the next 10 years.Check this one out and spread the word on this hidden gem. The action is good, the dialogue is fast and fun and checking out the world of futbol firms is also very interesting.
Greetings again from the darkness. There is always a bit of uncertainty when discussing or reviewing anything Star Trek related. So many rabid fans are more knowledgeable and keyed in to all the details. I am not. While I enjoyed the Gene Rodenberry TV series, and the subsequent movie versions, obsession never hit me. Because of this, my views will vary from those Trekkies and sci-fi experts.Director JJ Abrams re-invented the franchise in 2009 with stunning results. That "new" Enterprise crew returns here: Chris Pine as Kirk, Zachary Quinto as Spock, Karl Urban as Bones, Zoe Saldana as Uhura, John Cho as Sulu, Anton Yelchin as Chekov and Simon Pegg as Scotty. The new addition is Alice Eve as Carol, daughter of Admiral Marcus (played by RoboCop Peter Weller). Abrams is wise enough to know that this story needed a great villain so he revisits Khan and casts a spectacular Benedict Cumberbatch (the sleazy dude from Atonement).This movie works because of the crew's chemistry. We believe they like and respect each other ... even while breaking orders. The film works even better thanks to a villain that establishes a believable threat. Cumberbatch plays a super-human force with a mixture of Shakespeare and Hannibal Lecter. He delivers lines in a way that you have no cause to doubt his intent. This is a nice contrast to the warm fuzzies coming from the crew members.It can't go without mention that there is a shocking display of crystal blue eyes on display. Chris Pine, Peter Weller, Benedict Cumberbatch and Alice Eve all flash baby blues that jump off the screen in 3D. The only reason the sea blue peepers weren't more distracting is because of what I refer to as FXOD ... a special effects overdose. It seems as though each summer blockbuster feels the obligation to go bigger on the visual effects to get noticed. As often happens, the effects are just too much. Luckily, the characters and story are strong enough that it stayed on track.If you are a casual Star Trek fan, this is one that will entertain you. If you are a Trekkie, you have no doubt already seen it twice and have blogged about all the errors. Next up: 2016 for the third entry in the Abrams franchise.
Greetings again from the darkness. A year and a half late, but I finally got around to seeing this searing Ryan Gosling performance. Director Ryan Fleck co-wrote the down and dirty script with Anna Boden and all parents should hope their kids' teachers have a bit more on the ball than Gosling's character.The drug use and bleakness of the story would be too heavy for many, but the story is well structured and delivered. Matching Gosling's performance scene for scene is the remarkable Shareeka Epps. Striving to overcome all obstacles, but not strong beyond belief, young Ms. Epps is the center of the film and proves to be the ultimate redeemer.Don't sit down to watch this expecting a pick-me-up, but it is nice film-making and sterling acting.
Greetings again from the darkness. It's the 45th anniversary of this film's release and it was awarded a limited theatrical re-release, which I took advantage of last evening. Unlike so many films, the big screen doesn't really bring anything special here, but then, it really doesn't require any assistance. I fall into the category of those who consider this one of the all-time best films. Not only is it off-the-charts entertaining, the dialogue is brilliant, the performances are pitch perfect, and the camera work and soundtrack are highly complimentary.As my number of viewings have increased over the years, I have become a true admirer of the performance of Anne Bancroft as Mrs. Robinson. It is heart-breaking and emotional. The first glimpse of her always makes me smile ... she is in the background as Ben (Dustin Hoffman) pinballs through the party trying to avoid the clutches of his parents' friends. Her scene in bed when she tells Ben about her college background in art and how her dreams came crashing down, her voice and facial features are filled with pain. Watch the movie from Mrs. Robinson's point of view and my guess is you too will have a renewed understanding.Of course, the age differences of the lead actors breaks all of my "movie pet peeve" rules. Dustin Hoffman was 30 at the time and he is playing a soon to turn 21 year old Ben. Anne Bancroft has a line to Ben where she says she is "twice your age". Actually, she was only 36 at the time, and Katharine Ross (Elaine) was 27. Also, William Daniels who plays Ben's dad, was only 10 years older than Hoffman.The movie is based on the Charles Webb novel and the screenplay was written by Buck Henry, who also plays the hotel clerk with whom Ben has an ongoing dialogue. Calder Willingham is also credited thanks to a lawsuit brought after the fact. The director, Mike Nichols has had a terrific career, and was also a co-founder of Chicago's Second City Improv. He is also one of only 12 EGOT's: winners of an Emmy, Grammy, Oscar and Tony. One of Mr. Nichols' most famous collaborators is Elaine May, who plays the roommate who delivers the note to Ben ... and is the target of a most interesting camera angle.There are so many iconic moments and shots from the film. Everyone is aware of Mr. McGuire's "Plastics" advice to Ben, and we see Norman Fell as Ben's landlord who has no appreciation for "agitators". It's also fun to note that we see a glimpse of a young Richard Dreyfuss who says he'll "get the cops", and Mike Farrell (from MASH) makes his film debut as a bellhop at the hotel. It's also the final screen performance for Alice Ghostley, who many know from "Bewitched". One of the most famous film posters in history shows Dustin Hoffman photographed through the leg of Mrs. Robinson. Actually, that leg belongs to Linda Gray, who went on to fame as Sue Ellen Ewing in the "Dallas" TV series. It should also be noted that the pivotal Taft Hotel in the film is actually the very famous Ambassador Hotel, which of course, is where Presidential candidate Robert F Kennedy was assassinated in 1968. The hotel was later demolished in 2005.On a personal note, some of my favorite moments in the film include the shot of Mr Robinson reflected in the glass top table as she arrives for her first night with Ben. Also, director Nichols allows the camera to linger on a furious and disgusted Bancroft as Hoffman shows up for his date with Elaine. And yes, it should be mentioned that Katharine Ross became the "dream girl" of the 1960's thanks to this role and her role in Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid. As for the Simon and Garfunkel music, the most interesting piece is the unfinished "Mrs. Robinson" song that Nichols selected, even though Paul Simon presented it to him as "Mrs. Roosevelt" (as in Eleanor). Singing only the chorus and relying on acoustic guitar and an endless supply of Di-di-di's, the unfinished version is a perfect fit for Ben's pursuit of Elaine. One of my guilty pleasures from the film is courtesy of Murray Hamilton who seems to just choke on his lines as he spits them out to Ben - in both of their key scenes together. Hamilton went on to be Mayor of Amity in Jaws, but his career peak was in not shaking hands with Ben.Though it's not technically the final shot, the faces of Elaine and Ben on the bus is one of the most memorable endings in movie history ... the cherry on top for one of my absolute favorite films. (http://moviereviewsfromthedark.wordpress.com/)
Greetings again from the darkness. If you have read even a few of my reviews, you know I am not typically a fan of the Hollywood Rom-Com. I find most of them lazy, lame, predictable and irritating. But when legendary comedy director Ivan Reitman (Ghostbusters, Dave, Stripes) gets involved, I will at least pay attention. Here Mr. Reitman directs a script that on the surface will examine the Friends with Benefits phenomenon.The leads are played by Ashton Kutcher and Natalie Portman, and the twist here is that Portman's Emma is the driving force behind the agreement with Kutcher's Adam to not have a relationship ... only relations. Even Adam's friends point out to him that he is living every male's fantasy. So does anyone think this will really work? Of course not.First, they are both just so darn cute! And Adam is oh-so-adorable as the sly one hoping to break through and convince Emma that he is worthy of her love. All the physical stuff continues as Adam works his job on the set of a Glee knock-off, battles with his dad (Kevin Kline) who is sleeping with Adam's ex-girlfriend (a wonderful Opehlia Lovibond), and Emma slaves away saving lives in her job as a brilliant doctor. Oh, and one of Adam's co-workers (a manic Lake Bell) has a mega crush on him, and Emma's little sister (Olivia Thirlby) finds true love as does Emma's friend Patrice (Greta Gerwig from Greenberg), who falls for Adam's best friend. Wow. All that love and our two heroes just have to keep things between the sheets.On the plus side, the side stories are enough fun that the film is easily watchable despite the predictable nature of the premise. Even the Portman/Kutcher story is tolerable thanks to the gender-bending nature of their roles. I would have preferred to see the Friends with Benefits pact extended and examined (it worked in the Stieg Larsson books!). This is easily Mr. Reitman's best comedy since 1993's "Dave", which also featured Kevin Kline. It's nice to see Ms. Portman do something lightweight after her fabulous "Black Swan" performance, but I am really hoping Mr. Kutcher understands that someday he may really have to act and not just smile on cue.
Greetings again from the darkness. Old School director Todd Phillips takes us to Vegas. Justin Bartha (National Treasure) is getting married in a couple of days and his friends Ed Helms (The Office) and Bradley Cooper (Wedding Crashers) decide a road trip bachelor party to sin city is a good call. Justin's off kilter, soon to be brother in law, the incredible Zach Galifianakis, joins them as well.The next morning the three of them wake up in a trashed hotel suite with a chicken, tiger and no sign of Justin. Comedy ensues as they try to re-create the events of the previous evening through various clues ... such as a stolen police car being brought up from valet.Ed Helms is very good, but much of the comedy comes from Zach G. He has a bit of early John Belushi to him, thanks to the heft and delivery. More importantly, he is not predictable in the least.Mike Tyson, who shows up for his tiger, adds quite the offbeat element, especially while singing Phil Collins ... wow. Rachael Harris is perfect as the bossy girlfriend to Helms and their showdown near the end is a winning moment. Jeffrey Tambor, Ken Jeong and Heather Graham all have their moments, but unlike the previews, I won't give anything else away.If you like Old School, this comedy is in your wheelhouse.
Greetings again from the darkness. For some reason, I keep thinking director Tony Scott will re-capture his magic of "Crimson Tide". Instead, he thrives on being the center of attention, rather than letting the story and characters unfold on screen. How he mangles the great cat-and-mouse game of the original "Taking of Pelham One Two Three" is pure torture to watch.In the original Walter Matthau and the icy cold Robert Shaw were brilliant. Here Travolta is way over-the-top with all his "MF'ers". Denzel, for all his greatness, is simply miscast as the nice, working class hero. In the original, NYC shots were gritty and real ... here they are Tony Scott disco complete with flying cars. Since when does a car collision send one of the vehicles soaring and somersaulting? And why does a skilled motorcycle cop ram right into a parked vehicle? Just a ridiculous action sequence.Also in the original, Martin Balsam, Hector Elizondo and Earl Hindman (Wilson from Home Improvement) were Shaw's team and each had their own personality. Here Luis Guzman is given little to do and I couldn't pick the other two out of a line-up after just watching the film! John Tuturro and James Gandolfini are the only others with much to say. Gandolfini is a nice combo of Giuliani and Bloomberg, and provides at least a touch of humor. The story is expanded from a pure heist film to a bit of distorted revenge by Travolta, a disgraced Wall Street stud.Just not much good to say about this one since I don't believe it stands on its own and it certainly can't hold a candle to the original.
Greetings again from the darkness. It's an impressive cast. Unfortunately the material is mostly obvious and cliché-filled with no real message other than our dependency on technology is leading us to be less "connected" to those real life people we live with. Is there anyone who doesn't know this ... other than the characters in this movie? I'm calling this movie "Crash on the World Wide Web". Crash was the 2006 Oscar winner for Best Picture. It had multiple story lines and tried to appear very important, just like this one. Disconnect shows us the Boyd's - a family comprised of a workaholic lawyer dad (Jason Bateman, always on the blackberry), a teenage daughter, a teenage loner son, and a mom (Hope Davis) who has no bond with any of them. The boy (played by Jonah Bobo from Crazy Stupid Love) is cyber-bullied by two cruel boys (Colin Ford from We Bought a Zoo, and Aviad Bernstein).We also meet a married couple played by Paula Patton and Alexander Skarsgard. They learn they are the victims of identity theft and the source could be her online support chat room (grieving the loss of their young son) or his online gambling problem. They hire a cyber-crime expert (an excellent Frank Grillo) to help them track down the alleged perpetrator (Michael Nyqvist). This expert also happens to be them father of Colin Ford's character - the cyber-bully from story 1.Finally we see an ambitious local TV reporter (Andrea Riceborough) who stumbles onto an online sex chat room featuring young stud Max Thieriot. As the trust builds between these two, we know disaster is fast approaching.The two father-son relationships take a turn after both fathers invade the privacy of the boys' online accounts. What they learn is painful and enlightening. The real point or message of the stories seem to be that technology is killing real communication and human interaction. This is the disconnect that is occurring while online connections are thriving. Did we really need a movie to tell us this?
Greetings again from the darkness. From highly acclaimed Romanian director Christian Mungui, this dark, disturbing film shows us the bleak underbelly of Communist Romania. The daily challenges commoners face just for a pack of cigs or to feed a new found kitty fall right in line with solving the problem of an unwanted pregnancy.This story is fascinating and gut-wrenching and the performance by Anamaria Marinca as Otilia is as powerful as any we will see this year. Her loyalty to her friend Gabita (played well by Lauri Vasihu) goes beyond friendship as Otilia "assists" Gabita in arranging for an abortion. With a economy of dialogue, the film captures many nuances of relationships ... friendships, boyfriends/girlfriends, one's own family and the family of others. And that doesn't even mention the strongest theme of examining just how far one will go for survival and friendship.The hired hand for the job is played in a very unique fashion by Vlad Ivanov (as Bebe). Let's just say his bed side manner wouldn't exactly pass the ethics standards for the AMA. Watching this slime of a man take advantage of the situation is sickening and disheartening but again highlights the desperation of the situation for the women.Definitely not a feel good, inspirational film, it is still exceptionally powerful in its message ... even if the look and feel of the film are what one would expect with a very limited budget.
Greetings again from the darkness. How rare it is for a film to examine the lost soul of men in pain. Adam Sandler stars as Charlie, a man who lost his family in the 9/11 tragedy, and has since lost his career, his reason to live and arguably, his sanity. Don Cheadle co-stars as Sandler's former Dental School roommate who appears to have the perfect life (that Sandler apparently had prior to 9/11).Of course the parallels in these men's lives are obvious, but it is actually refreshing to see men's feelings on display in a movie ... feelings other than lust and revenge, that is. Watching how they actually help each other by just being there is painful and heartfelt. Writer/Director Mike Binder ("The Upside of Anger", and Sandler's accountant in this film) really brings a different look and feel to the film. Some of the scenes don't work as well as others, but overall it is well written and solidly directed.Sandler and Cheadle are both excellent. Sandler's character reminds a bit of his fine performance in "Punch Drunk Love", but here he brings much more depth. Cheadle is always fine and does a nice job of expressing the burden he carries ... just by watching him work a jigsaw puzzle.Support work is excellent by Jada Pinkett Smith (as Cheadle's wife), Liv Tyler (as a very patient psychiatrist), Saffron Burrows (in an oddly appealing role), Donald Sutherland as an irritated judge and Melinda Dillon and Robert Klein as Sandler's in-laws.The film really touches on how the tragic events of that day affected one man so deeply that he is basically ruined. In addition to the interesting story and some great shots of NYC, you have to love any film that features vocals from Chrissy Hynde, Bruce Springsteen and Roger Daltrey ... as well as Eddie Vedder impersonating Daltrey. Not exactly a chipper upbeat film, but it is a quality film with an unusual story.
Greetings again from the darkness. "Based on a true story" is always a bit unsettling to see at the beginning of a movie. There are so many degrees to truth, that we are never really sure how big the dosage might be. With this film, we get the inside track on the all-too-familiar Iranian hostage situation that began on November 4, 1979 and ended 444 days later with the release of 52 U.S. Embassy workers. The story within that story is the focus ... six escaped as the Embassy was being seized.The film begins with a Cliff's Note history lesson on the fall of the U.S. backed Shah of Iran and the assumption of power by Ayatollah Khomeini. The six who escaped were welcomed into the home of the Canadian Ambassador Ken Taylor (played with grace by Victor Garber). Of course, this had to be kept secret or a terrible situation could have taken a turn for the even-worse.This story really takes off when the CIA gets involved and drums up a scheme to extricate the six in hiding. Ben Affleck stars as Tony Mendez, the real life CIA Agent, who uses the international fascination with movies to create a plan that involves making a fake Star Wars rip-off with the help of award winning make-up artist John Chambers (Planet of the Apes) and a long-time and old school Hollywood producer named Lester Spiegel. These two inject the film with humor and positive energy as played by John Goodman and Alan Arkin. Their levity is much appreciated given the unrelenting tension delivered by the rest of the story.This is extraordinary filmmaking thanks to the script from Chris Terrio, realistic camera work from Rodrigo Prieto and top-notch directing by Ben Affleck ... yes, the same Ben Affleck who stars in the film. The team creates a period piece that has not just the look and feel of 1979-80, but some of the most gut-wrenching on screen tension since Three Days of the Condor or Munich. Many thrillers utilize car chases and gunfire. Here, we get personal tension thanks to politics and real life unknowns.The film is perfectly cast and strong support work is provided by Bryan Cranston as the CIA chief, Kyle Chandler as Hamilton Jordan, Bob Gunton as Cyrus Vance, as well as Chris Messina, Zeljko Ivanek, Richard Kind, Clea DuVall and Tate Donovan. There are also brief appearances by Philip Baker Hall, Adrienne Barbeau and the great Michael Parks.There are only two negatives to the film. First, Ben Affleck is miscast as Tony Mendez. The closing credits show what a perfect job they did in the rest of the cast, but to have a superhero looking American walking around Iran is certain to draw attention where it's not wanted. Plus, as director, Affleck suffers from Warren Beatty syndrome. He LOVES seeing his face on screen. The number of Alleck close-ups has to push 20. It's too much too often. Secondly, the final escape scene at the airport is just a bit too Hollywood and really stands out from the rest of the movie. There was no shortage of tension and the Armageddon style chase just looked cheesy.Those two things noted, this is Oscar material for sure. If you remember this era, the yellow ribbons and news clips featuring Cronkite, Koppel and Brokaw will bring back a frustrating time in U.S. history. If you are too young to remember, this acts as a reminder of just how powerful and quiet the CIA can be when it is doing its job properly.Don't miss the final credits as we hear Jimmy Carter narrate his memories as President, and we see real life photos of the six escapees. (www.MovieReviewsFromTheDark.wordpress.com)
Greetings again from the darkness. Ho Hum ... just another masterpiece from maybe the finest filmmaker working today, Pedro Almodovar. Mr. Almodovar is such a terrific story teller and visual artist and absolutely no one produces better female characters on film than he.Here he works with the fabulous Penelope Cruz in what is absolutely her best performance. She is stunning, complex and luminescent. The story is part melodrama part fantasy, but mostly just a creative tale of the re-emergence of Cruz's dead mother after the death of Aunt Sophie. I will not give anything away, but what follows is part hysterical and extraordinarily humanistic.If you are a film lover and are not familiar with Almodovar, I encourage you to check out his work ... "Talk To Her", "All About My Mother", "Women on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown". These are not Hollywood type films, but all have heart, soul, a wonderful story and amazing characters. Additionally, his use of color is very unique and pure joy for any true film lover.
Greetings again from the darkness. Have been trying to find something good to say about the film and all I can come up with is that it's unconventional. I am a fan of unconventional, but prefer it mixed with a dose of substance. This is nothing more than a bunch of second tier TV actors running around being filmed in the dark by some hand held cameras. Blair Witch Project blended with Godzilla on September 11 just as the War of the Worlds begins.The only suspense here is whether anyone in your audience will barf from motion sickness. OK, it is loud. And unconventional. Oh, another positive ... there are no opening credits and no need to stick around for the closing credits. The best of the actors is Lizzy Caplan, who gives her best (but not good enough) Zooey Deschanel impersonation.Oh, and there is a monster who changes shapes and experiences no apparent side effects from the mightiest military weapons. That is unconventional. Director Matt Reeves ("Felicity" is his main claim) doesn't give us too many real shots of the monster, which is probably a good thing.Pretty sure most of this was filmed on a sound stage and I assume there were numerous camera operators ... one's arms would get awfully tired jiggling a camera around non-stop. Not sure who the target audience is since we never really get a chance to know any characters, but I will say the film is unconventional ... and lacking substance.
Greetings again from the darkness. While not a rabid, obsessed fan of Alan Moore's graphic novel, I certainly enjoyed the read and was anxious for the film (for about 15 years now!) Director Zach Snyder ("300") stays very close to script with a product that should please all but the most persnickety fans.The film is a hard "R" rating and I just couldn't believe how many under 10 year olds were in the theatre. Why so many idiot parents? The violence and gore is brutal and graphic. The film unquestionably sets the cinematic record for most screen time for a blue penis. This is not Bugs Bunny folks, this is an adult presentation of a graphic novel ... and a very good and unique one, at that.Overall I was pretty pleased with the casting. Billy Crudup (Almost Famous) as Dr Manhattan (voice and head) was plenty mystical, Malin Akerman (27 Dresses) surprises as Silk Spectre II, while Carla Gugino was a bit over the top as her mom. Jeffrey Dean Morgan's too brief Comedian turn was excellent and Patrick Wilson was fine as the soulful Nite Owl and slightly wimpy Dan Dreiberg ... complete with the Clark Griswald eyeglasses. While the weak link was unfortunately Matthew Goode as Ozymandias, the unquestionable strength of the cast was Jackie Earle Haley as the hardened Rorschach. His scenes are fascinating ... as is that terrific ink blot mask! Snyder does a good job with the soundtrack, though it easily qualifies as the oddest placement for the great Leonard Cohen's song "Hallelujah". Stay for the credits to catch Leonard's "First we take Manhattan". The absolute best sequence of the film is the historical montage featuring highlights of the heroes' early years played over Dylan's "The Times They are a'Changin'". Sure the ending was changed out of necessity and it is a bit long in running time, but Snyder has done a wonderful job with the outstanding source material and this one can be watched and enjoyed a few times.
Greetings again from the darkness. Ambitious and mesmerizing. Those are the two words that best describe my reaction to this stunning film based on the David Mitchell novel. Hopefully, you have not come here for answers to the many mysteries offered up by this most unique film experience. If you are the type that loves to think, analyze and discuss complex movies, you will be challenged and satisfied. If you prefer your stories clean, straightforward and gift-wrapped, you will be like some of those in my audience who walked out of the theatre at various stages -not to return.While there are no easy explanations for what we see on screen, this is undoubtedly one of the more complex and multi-faceted and challenging movies to watch. There are six stories that span approximately 500 years (beginning in 1849 and going through 2346 or so). We see many actors playing multiple characters of various ages, crossing racial and gender lines depending on the specific story. We track the progression/regression of their souls through time. This will prove more challenging to you than it sounds on paper, as the make-up work is some of the most extreme ever seen on screen.The six stories are co-written and directed by Tom Twyker (Run Lola Run) and The Wachowski's (Lana and Andy, The Matrix trilogy). These six segments are split evenly between the two director groups, yet then blend seamlessly thanks to the truly expert editing of Alexander Berner. You will recognize the influence and similarities of such films as Master and Commander, Cocoon, Silkwood and Blade Runner, as well as many others.Filling the clothing, donning the make-up and spouting the dialogue in manners that you often won't recognize are such actors as Tom Hanks, Halle Berry, Jim Broadbent, Hugo Weaving, Jim Sturgess, Donna Bae, Ben Whishaw, Keith David, James D'Arcy, Xun Zhou, Susan Sarandon and Hugh Grant. Especially entertaining are Hugo Weaving as a sadistic female nurse and Hugh Grant as a violent tribesman. The best laughs in the film are courtesy of the great Mr. Broadbent whose facial expressions are near clown-like in elasticity.As for the themes and points of the film, that is a topic for debate. A couple of lines of dialogue offer some clues. Hanks' nasty ship doctor spouts "The weak are meat the strong do eat", and we notice the recurring theme of the strong dominating the weak across all story lines. There is another line: "One can transcend any convention so long as one can conceive of doing so", that provides the glimmer of hope in each story. Love and oppression are always present, but it's clear to me that the human spirit remains strong and is capable of overcoming oppression in the past, present and future. You may disagree but our debates will be colorful ... and may change after a second viewing!
Greetings again from the darkness. Little doubt that this one will make the cut for a Best Picture nomination. Director Clint Eastwood continues his amazing roll after "Mystic River" and "Million Dollar Baby". There is much to admire about this film, while at the same time, I don't believe it is quite as great as it thinks it is.The war scenes on the island of Iwo Jima are flat out amazing and unlike anything we have experienced on film. The stark images capture the bleakness of the island and the pure chaos and hell our soldiers went through. It is violent, gut-wrenching and difficult to watch, but you can't take your eyes off the screen. Eastwood's visionary skill is flashed on many shots and the view from the mountain is breathtaking.Also exceptional is the acting of the three leads: Ryan Phillipe as "Doc" Bradley (whose son wrote the book this movie is based on), Jesse Bradford as Gagnon and Adam Beech as Ira Hayes. The three reluctant heroes (well at least two are reluctant) are shipped home and used by the government to stir up sales of government war bonds. Screenwriter Paul Haggis (also on a roll) falls short in most of the scenes with our three heroes and their personal wars. Especially tough to watch is the stereotypical drunken scenes with American Indian Hayes as he tries to cover up the fact that he doesn't feel he is a hero.What is really missing is the personal side of the story of the young men as they are put on display and even more importantly the flashbacks with them as older men. The reminiscing could have been so much more powerful and poignant, that it leaves us feeling a bit let down.Still, when the credits roll and Joe Rosenthal's REAL war photos are shown in slide show format, the audience stopped in their tracks and watched every last one of them in perfect silence. This was by far the most powerful part of the movie. With the remarkable green beach battle scene, this has to be considered a war film, but it is much more a commentary on the political side of war and hero worship that is in the fabric of American society.On a last note, Mr. Eastwood's deft musical touch is on display again as he wrote much of the music and his son Kyle performed a great bit of it. Sometimes it is as simple as a single guitar, but the music is always a complement to the scene, never a scene-stealer.
Greetings again from the darkness. Director Ron Howard and writer Peter Morgan are back in their wheelhouse with a film based on real people. Their previous collaboration was Frost/Nixon, and they also had separate "true stories": Howard with Apollo 13, A Beautiful Mind and Cinderella Man, and Morgan with The Queen and Last King of Scotland. Here they tackle personality opposites and fierce Formula One competitors James Hunt and Niki Lauda.The two lead actors are perfectly cast. Chris Hemsworth (Thor) slips seamlessly into the swashbuckling, rebellious playboy that was Great Britain's James Hunt. Daniel Bruhl (Inglourious Basterds, Goodbye Lenin!) becomes the focused, determined, meticulous Spanish-German Niki Lauda. You might think of Hunt as an X-Games type who thrives on publicity and fun, while Lauda is more scientist or engineer driven by the quest for perfection. Both were World Champions and their rivalry brought out the best in each.Do not think for a second that you need be a Formula One expert or even know the backstory of Hunt and Lauda to enjoy this movie. It is extremely entertaining and exciting. Morgan's script might hover a bit more on the oh-so-photogenic Hunt/Hemsworth character, but it also does a nice job of preventing the not-so-likable Lauda from being a bad guy. In fact, it demonstrates that champions are not all alike.The look of the film is exemplary. Beautifully photographed by DP Anthony Dod Mantle (Oscar winner for Slumdog Millionaire), the colors and grainy texture make this look like it was filmed in the 1970's, not just based then. While the racing scenes are stunning, it is actually an intimate look at this world and the men of this era. Without dwelling on it, we get a realistic feel for the fiery crash that caused Lauda's horrific injuries and his extraordinary fight to recovery while in the hospital.We also get a peek at the very different marriages of these two men. Hunt's short lived bond with model Suzy Miller (played by Olivia Wilde)ended when her affair with Richard Burton caused the final split between Burton and Liz Taylor. Lauda's relationship with his wife (Alexandria Maria Lara) occurred without the whirlwind, but in a very real and organic manner. Both are an additional touch of realism to a quite real story.There have been no shortage of racing movies over the years. Some good: Le Mans (Steve McQueen) and Grand Prix (James Garner). Some not so good: Days of Thunder (Tom Cruise) and Driven (Sylvester Stallone). Ron Howard's latest clearly finishes near the top at the finish line.
Greetings again from the darkness. Evidently aimed at teenage boys who think pure violence is cool regardless of whether the story makes sense or is interesting, "Smokin' Aces" delivers very little other than violence. Writer/Director Joe Carnahan did a nice job a few years ago with "Narc", but aims above his talent here. Obviously influenced by the amazing "Snatch", Mr. Carnahan fails to deliver the snap, crackle and pop of Snatch dialogue. Instead we are treated to quite the body count and loads of strutting and posing.Jeremy Piven, in his never-ending pursuit of a leading man role, is literally wasted as the strung-out Vegas entertainer-cum-mobster who is attempting to save his own life by cutting a deal with the feds. Of course, the mob boss who he is going to testify against wants him dead and that's where the fun should begin. When word hits the street about the $1 million bounty on Piven's head and heart, all the "professional" hit men and women catch a ride to Lake Tahoe. After 90 minutes of shooting each other and the hotel, the back story that supposedly only the Feds know is revealed to any film goer who has never read a comic book.The supporting cast is interesting, although given little to work with. Fresh off his failed TV series, Ray Liotta is the veteran Federal agent partnered with the totally miscast Ryan Reynolds (Ryan Reynolds as an FBI agent ... whoever thought this was a good idea???). Ben Affleck has a brief role as a bail bondsman who is not up for the big time, rapper Common is very solid as one of Piven's guys, Andy Garcia is the ultra-secretive Fed in command of the operation, Alex Rocco is nothing but a voice on the phone and a shadow in the window, Curtis "Booger" Armstrong has a couple of nice scenes as Piven's agent and Matthew Fox looks like a cool guy trying to be a nerdy hotel security guy in glasses. The guy who flashes something here is Jason Bateman in what amounts to the little bit of humor flashed in the film.Very disappointing only because a little script work could have moved this one up a notch or two. There are some stylistic violent scenes, but mostly we are left watching a cheap card trick.
Greetings again from the darkness. I've never understood the phrase "cruel disease". Are there diseases that aren't cruel? One could say the level of cruelty is determined by how the disease affects you and your loved ones, but a stunning performance by Julianne Moore provides a glimpse of what Alzheimer's does to those afflicted. She shows us what it's like when we are robbed of what makes us who we are. And yes, it's very cruel.Most "disease" movies spend a significant amount of effort demonstrating how this will affect the victim's family and friends, but co-directors Richard Glazer and Wash Westmoreland have adapted Lisa Genova's novel to focus on Alice (Ms. Moore)  her family is mostly trotted out to help the viewer understand how the disease has progressed. We first meet Alice on her 50th birthday, and soon learn she is a brilliant Linguistics Professor at Columbia and has 3 brilliant kids (Kristen Stewart, Kate Bosworth, Hunter Parrish) and a brilliant husband (Alec Baldwin). These are brilliant, successful and beautiful people. And that's one of the points here  Alzheimer's doesn't pick on the poor, the slow or the weak. It doesn't discriminate at all (other than a slightly higher rate amongst women).Julianne Moore somehow is equally effective as the energetic, very confident professor and the shell of a person with vacant eyes who only periodically recognizes the face in the mirror or the faces at the family meal. This is a movie and a performance about moments  moments of panic, isolation, and one particular moment of unleashed emotion when Alice comes clean to her husband early on. We hear the fading of her verbal skills (in her speeches) and we witness the slow fail of her body (she was once a runner). It's torturous to hear and see.There have been other movies that touched on Alzheimer's: The Notebook (2004), The Savages (2007), and Away From Her (2007), but Julianne Moore is the first to take us inside, to force us to feel the slow loss of self. It's painful, and yes it's cruel.
Greetings again from the darkness. Very good melodrama from Scandanavian director Susanne Bier. The film is intentionally slow moving ... just like real life tragedy. Although we could have been beaten over the head with the cute as heck kids, the story is actually more focused on the heroin addicted best friend played by Benecio del Toro. This makes the point that strength can come from many sources.Halle Berry gives her best performance since "Monster's Ball" (yes even better than "Catwoman"). We feel her happiness, pain, desperation and hope. The cute kids are played by an amazing 11 yr old Alexis Llewellyn and Micah Berry (not her real life son). Also strong is Alison Lohman, who just doesn't work enough these days. However the strongest performance is by Benecio. I am not sure if the role was written for him or if he just perfectly captures best friend Jerry. It is most complicated role and requires enormous depth.I definitely recommend the film thanks to its basis in reality and fine performances and terrific direction. However, I will qualify it by saying that I don't believe it is quite in the class of "21 Grams"
Greetings again from the darkness. The 1996 newscast remains vivid in my mind. It was captivating due to the bizarre circumstances and the tragedy involving an athlete whose Olympic career I had followed closely. Initially, I had trouble reconciling the story of this popular world class athlete and the mentally troubled billionaire who was part of one of America's richest and most iconic families. This movie fills in some of the gaps.Director Bennett Miller (Capote, Moneyball) is a meticulous filmmaker and is never in a hurry as a story teller. He allows the characters to develop on screen at their own pace ... and this time the pace is excruciatingly slow - in a brilliant, yet painful to watch manner. The lead characters are a diverse trio of men. Mark Schultz (Channing Tatum) won Olympic Gold in 1984, but he is shy and withdrawn to the point of being socially awkward and unable to capitalize on his victory. His older brother Dave Schultz (Mark Ruffalo) also won a Gold Medal in 1984, and is very engaging family man who helped raise Mark, while building endorsements and job opportunities for himself. The triumvirate is completed by the incredibly odd billionaire John DuPont (Steve Carell), who proclaims himself a wrestling coach after building a state of the art training facility on his family estate. The ultra rich can do such things.John DuPont was never able to live up to his mother's (Vanessa Redgrave) standards. She even paid the chauffeur's son to be John's friend as they were growing up. With Mark always in the shadow of his more popular brother, DuPont seizes the opportunity to capitalize on Mark's vulnerability and invite him to lead his Foxcatcher wrestling team (named after the estate which is near Valley Forge). DuPont's ultimate goal is to also have Dave join them, but it's a tougher sell for various reasons.The mommy issues and brother issues drive the need for validation and are at the core of story here, as are ego, "patriotism", and ultimately delusion. Steve Carell sports a nose apparatus that captures the reason DuPont nicknamed himself the "eagle". He also kicks his head back, while slumping his shoulders, in physically capturing DuPont's unorthodox movements. But that's nothing compared to the eerie aura he puts off whenever he must deal with another person. He sends up red flags to anyone even minimally aware of their surroundings, but to a lost soul like Mark, he becomes a father figure and "coach".A wrestling movie would figure to be male dominated, but even with that, Sienna Miller (as Dave's wife) and Vanessa Redgrave (as Jean DuPont) are almost non-existent as the only female characters. Anthony Michael Hall has a brief supporting role, and it's nice to see Guy Boyd back on screen as well. However, most every scene is some mixture of Carell, Tatum and Ruffalo, and they each deliver. It's a side of Carell we have never before seen (many of the greatest comics have a dark side), and Tatum is spot on as the hulking, sulking Mark, while Ruffalo captures the easy charm and sensitivity of Dave.The story offers further proof that life can be stranger than fiction ... especially when it involves an insecure and mentally unstable billionaire who envisions himself as a leader of men.
Greetings again from the darkness. Gerard Butler doesn't always make wise decisions when picking his projects. In the right role, men admire him for being cool and tough, while women are enchanted with his charm. The role of Secret Service Agent Mike Banning is just about perfect for Butler. He not only gets to be an action hero, but he also has a strong relationship (with Radha Mitchell) and is a role model for the President's young son. Butler is so nearly perfect here, he should be cast in the next Old Spice commercial.The movie starts out with the backstory on how Agent Mike Banning (Butler) fell out of grace with the President and was reassigned to a desk job at Treasury. Pushing paper is like Siberia for a man of Banning's make-up. A terrorist invasion on the White House tosses Banning right smack in the middle of a violent and explosive act designed to leave the entire United States decimated. Circumstances being what they are, Banning is the only hope.Movies like this must have a quality bad guy. We get icy Rick Yune as Yang, a North Korean criminal mastermind. You might think this is extremely timely given the real world in North Korea, but Yune is certainly no Governmental official. The attack is very well planned and leaves Yune locked in the White House security bunker with the President, Vice President and Secretary of Defense (a spunky Melissa Leo). At the Pentagon, this leaves the Secretary of State (Morgan Freeman) and a bombastic General (Robert Forster) jockeying for control. Angela Bassett is there to referee. While this group of officials sits around looking anxious and worried, Agent Banning is a one man wrecking crew against the terrorists.The images of the White House being attacked will prove quite disturbing to any US citizen and the sequence comes off as something that could possibly occur. Let's hope director Antoine Fuqua (Training Day) performed sufficient research to know this attack couldn't actually happen. Still, Aaron Eckhart is a believable President ... in the Harrison Ford mode, tough as nails but also intelligent.There are of course similarities to Clint Eastwood's 1993 film In The Line of Fire, and many are comparing it to the 1988 classic Die Hard. For me, the difference in Gerard Butler's Mike Banning and Bruce Willis' John McClane is that Butler is the right guy in a bad place, while McClane was a good guy in the wrong place. The action sequences in Olympus are even bigger than Die Hard, and it's certainly clear there is much more at stake.The cast also includes Dylan McDermott and Ashley Judd. Without giving anything away, I'll admit this is my favorite Ashley Judd role of all time. It will be interesting to see how this one compares to Roland Emmerich's White House Down, which comes out in June. The story lines are almost identical with WHD starring Channing Tatum and Jamie Foxx. Olympus Has Fallen is a very satisfactory action movie and Butler has re-established himself as a real movie star. It's doubtful Emmerich's version will stand up against this one.
Greetings again from the darkness. Remember the Alamo! Remember the Cold War! OK, the Alamo has nothing to do with this, but if you can remember Russia as a superpower and the bad guy whom the U.S. spent years and billions trying to out-spy and out-defend, then this story might makes some sense to you. Of course, the story matters little here. What matters is the action and it is actually pretty intense and well done.Angelina Jolie has always reminded me of the scene in "Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid" when Strother Martin is testing out Sundance's shooting skills. When Sundance misses the first target, he asks "Can I move?". He then proves he is much better when he moves. Angelina is the same. In her films that let her "move", she is amazing. Think "Mr. and Mrs. Smith" vs. "Changeling". The first she seems a natural. The second she came across as miscast. In this film, she does things no human being could do, but does these things with such commitment, that we actually believe she is capable. Her actions often border on parkour ... especially when in an elevator shaft or a freeway, and we accept these stunts because it's Angelina.Support work is provided by Liev Schreiber and Chiwetel Ejiofor, both who spend much of the movie trying to figure out how Angelina does the things she does ... surrounded by their teams of weapons experts. Most of the time, the way she is outnumbered leaves you thinking that if she gets out of this jam, this movie is just stupid. But once she has escaped, you just feel a little more pumped up! That's a sign of a good action movie.Sure, the story is ridiculous at most points and the plot holes are more canyons than holes, but it's kind of nice to re-visit the double or triple spy days, especially when it's placed within daring stunts and chases that work.The director of this is Phillip Noyce, who is best known for a couple of the Tom Clancy adaptations - "Patriot Games" and "Clear and Present Danger". Mr. Noyce got me hooked 20 years ago on a little film called "Dead Calm", starring a very young Nicole Kidman. That is a taut little thriller that takes place mostly on a sail boat in the middle of the ocean. If you've never seen it, you should.So in regards to "Salt", I will say that it's a fun action-thriller in a twisty little cold war spy setting. Don't get caught up in the plot details and just enjoy the action sequences by Angelina Jolie. Not very often I recommend ignoring a faulty script, but I actually enjoyed this one.
Greetings again from the darkness. Noah Baumbach wrote and directed the excellent "The Squid and the Whale", and it is with "Greenberg" that he really makes a statement as an independent filmmaker to anticipate. The second gem is always the most elusive. That said, I am not sure I can recommend this movie to very many people, despite all the good things I am about to write.This is the first Ben Stiller role that actually seems to fit him. His typical role is as a punchline. Here, he plays a guy who recently suffered a nervous breakdown and is now house-sitting for his rich brother, whose family is vacationing in Vietnam. Throughout the movie, Greenberg states he is concentrating on doing "nothing" right now. Of course, that is his defense mechanism for being unable to connect or communicate with any real person. Yes, that sounds bleak ... and it is. Yet, it is also fascinating and thought-provoking.Despite Stiller's strong turn, Greta Gerwig (as Florence) proves to be the heart of the story. She is the family assistant to Greenberg's brother and finds herself oddly attracted to Greenberg's vulnerable state. This is my first exposure to Ms. Gerwig and I find her fascinating as an actress. She has a natural openness on screen and is certainly no glamour-gal. Instead she comes across as a very real 25 year old trying to make sense of life - especially her own.In addition to Ms. Gerwig, Rhys Ifans provides outstanding support work as Greenberg's long ago band mate. This is the polar opposite of Ifan's character in "The Boat that Rocked" as here is just a guy putting together a grown up life for himself. He struggles with the adjustment, but accurately depicts how choices can make or break us.I am not sure whether to categorize this as a character study or just an exquisitely written series of scenes that hit the nail on the head. One of the best scenes of the film is when Stiller meets up with Jennifer Jason Leigh and she immediately rebuffs his reconciliation attempts. They had been a couple briefly 15 years ago and she has obviously moved on. Excellent film-making.The best way I can describe Greenberg the character is that he is a compilation of the dark thought that we all experience from time to time ... a desire to do nothing, wanting to be blunt and direct, dreams of recapturing the magic of youth, and of course, writing complaint letters for everything wrong in the world. Obviously, most of us spend very little real time on these things, but that is the Greenberg character. Let's keep an eye on Mr. Baumbach - he may just be the real deal.
Greetings again from the darkness. As a kid, I always enjoyed Jack and Beanstalk as a bedtime story. However, I never quite understood why Jack was a hero for stealing from the giant. Was I the only kid who felt a bit sorry for the giant? Along comes director Bryan Singer and frequent collaborator Christopher McQuarrie and the backstory clarifies things for me. The humans and giants had a long ago battle that ended when King Eric banished the giants to a land between heaven and earth. King Eric is either referred to as "The Great" or "The Evil" depending on whether you are a human or a giant.The prologue offers up simultaneous bedtime beanstalk stories for young Jack, living with his widowed dad, and the young Princess Isabelle, who lives in the castle. Flash forward 10 years and Jack (Nicholas Hoult) is living with his grumpy uncle (his dad died), and Isabelle (Eleanor Tomlinson) is a young lady being forced to marry the King's (Ian McShane) trusted adviser Roderick, played as a scoundrel by Stanley Tucci. Isabelle is a bit too adventurous for the King and the next thing we know, she has escaped from the castle and stumbled into Jack's humble abode. Of course, this happens on the same day that Jack traded the horse for the magic beans. The beanstalk appears and the real fun begins.Ewen McGregor leads the King's army and is in charge of the rescue party that must climb the beanstalk. Of course, Jack gets to go because of his inside information, and Roderick goes because he is in the midst of an ill-fated power play ... a requirement in Fairy Tales! The best CGI in the film occurs in the land of the giants. Their first appearance is very impressive and we get to sit back and enjoy the special effects wizardry. This is action-adventure at a very satisfactory level and the creepy giants add a new level to what we have seen on screen. The battle scenes are a great deal of fun and provide some visuals that are quite intense.Which leads to the main point here ... who is the movie made for? It's entirely too frightening for young kids who might enjoy the bedtime story, but I'm sure most teens are way too cool to see a movie about a kids' book. This is terrific entertainment that many ages would enjoy, but my guess is very few will venture to the theatre for it.This is a wonderful story with terrific visuals, interesting characters, unique humor (pig in a blanket), and wild battle scenes ... there is even a quite clever ending that made me laugh. Director Bryan Singer has received a lifetime pass from me thanks to his classic The Usual Suspects, but he definitely injected some spice into a traditional tale, and it deserves a look.
Greetings again from the darkness. This one gets bonus points because it is simply fun to watch. Though it fades from memory rather quickly, the film actually has surprisingly strong bones. It stars Joseph Gordon-Levitt and Michael Shannon ... two very well respected and high profile actors for a movie that has such basic and cartoonish elements. David Koepp directed and co-wrote the script, and he too has an impressive status in Hollywood. Mr. Koepp directed the underrated Ghost Town, and his writing impact can be seen in movies such as Panic Room, War of the Worlds, and the following franchises: Spider-Man, Jurassic Park, Mission: Impossible, and Indiana Jones.JGL plays Wilee, the "best" of the Manhattan bicycle messengers. If you have ever visited NYC, you surely have seen these seemingly fearless riders as they zip between taxis and people and delivery trucks. Wilee works out of an office run by Raj (Aasif Mandvi), and has a on/off relationship with fellow rider Vanessa (Dania Ramirez), and a slightly friendly rivalry with Manny (Wole Parks). Seriously, none of that really matters and the script could have been a group project in a community college film class.What does lend the film it's point of difference are the action-filled chase scenes through the busy streets of Manhattan. Since a movie needs some kind of plot, there is a purposefully absurd ticket with a hand-drawn smiley face that absolutely, positively has to be delivered by 7:00 pm. Otherwise, the child of Nima (Jamie Chung) doesn't get to join her mother in the United States. See, Nima has been working 3 jobs to raise the fee the Chinese mafia demands for shipping people.The chase scenes have a nice twist with CGI effects that demonstrate how the cyclists "see" the best route to take. We even get the dramatic and sometimes humorous results of a wrong decision. The chase that lasts pretty much the entire length of the movie is that of dirty cop and horrible gambler Bobby Monday (played by Michael Shannon). He is a desperate man and not even remotely clear thinking most of the time. It's quite a different Shannon than we are used to ... the silent simmering of his usual roles makes no appearance. Instead, we get full-throttle Michael Shannon - screaming, cussing, and over the top. Very odd to watch.It seems as though every stunt person in New York was employed for the film, but the stand-ins are not easy to spot. The chase scenes are well filmed and quite entertaining. It's an adrenaline rush that begins and ends with The Who's "Baba O'Riley". Just don't expect the rush to last ... they never do. (http://moviereviewsfromthedark.wordpress.com/)
Greetings again from the darkness. Reinventing a once popular franchise is always a bit of a gamble since the built-in audience will be very critical to changes and building a new audience can be extremely difficult. The secret usually lies in the ability to recapture the good parts from the original and add modern touches in order to attract new viewers.Director Kevin Munroe delivers some witty one-liners and a couple of nice fight scenes all wrapped up in a terrific new animation style that lends itself very well to the dark side of sewers and big cities. Additionally, some complicated interaction between Leonardo and Rafael add a dimension not normally seen with the Turtles. All the necessary elements are there: the fight scenes (in keeping with the PG rating) are action packed, but with very little real violence; the bad guys are bent on world domination, even though the familiar Shredder is gone; the Turtle brothers struggle at times, but of course come together as a team when necessary; and the funny one-liners will make all ages giggle.The downsides are the opening stage-setting scene, which will be a bit boring and hard to follow for the youngsters and the lack of any type of catchy music for the characters. Michaelangelo remains the fun-loving one, but he and Donnatello are pretty minor characters, and a big complaint is the lack of edge to Casey Jones. Instead of a hockey mask, he should probably dress as the Sta-Puff Marshmallow Man. Still, none of that takes away from a fun film with a beautiful look.Voice acting is pretty well done by the likes of Chris Evans, Sarah Michelle Gellar, Patrick Stewart, Mako, Kevin Smith and Ziyi Zhang. So take the kids and if you were once a Turtle fan, you should treat yourself to the fine new version. Cowabunga!!
Greetings again from the darkness. Four years ago "Taken" was a huge, surprise hit filled with heart-pumping action and a thrilling plot. The sequel boasts a budget more than three times the size of the original, the same key cast members (especially Liam Neeson), the same screenwriter (Luc Besson), and a similar type story. So why doesn't it work this time? The answer is inferior direction, no surprises, and too many absurd moments to count.Liam Neeson returns as former CIA-stud Bryan Mills, father to Kim (Maggie Grace) whom he rescued from Albanian sex-traffickers in Paris. Famke Janssen also returns as Leonore, Kim's mother and Bryan's ex. Somehow, Leonore and Kim think it's a great idea to surprise Bryan with a visit while he is on a security job in Istanbul. Yes, right next door to Albania. Since the film opens with a mass funeral depicting the burial of all the guys Bryan killed in the first movie, and Rade Serbedzija vows revenge, it comes as little surprise when Bryan and Leonore are "taken".What is surprising is that the filmmakers attempt to turn Maggie Grace into an action hero. Yes, gangly Maggie Grace who we saw hiding under the bed in the first film. This time, unable to pass the driving test to obtain her license, she transforms into master stunt driver and Olympic rooftop sprinter ... while deploying grenades with Swiss perfect timing. I should also mention that in real life Maggie Grace is 29 years old. She was supposedly 17 in the first movie and 18-19 here. Yes, one of my movie pet peeves.In a film like this, we can always hope the action sequences cover-up the ludicrous script (see most Jason Statham movies). Unfortunately, we are abused with chopped up camera work that we often can't tell who is punching who are whose gun is firing. These action shots make the fight scenes in Batman Begins or the Bourne movies appear slo-motion. It's a waste of Liam Neeson and a potential stellar bad guy in Mr. Serdebzija (The Saint). The final irritant is Janssen's role as Leonore. She is reduced to sobbing and passing out (sometimes while wearing a hood). Just another waste.There are two types of sequels: those that build on the best points of the first and those that simply cash in. Clearly, this one falls into the cashing-in column. Don't expect any long-lived quotes from this sequel. It has no particular set of skills. (www.MovieReviewsFromTheDark.wordpress.com)
Greetings again from the darkness. Emily Blunt would have stolen The Devil Wears Prada if not for the queen of screen, Meryl Streep. Here she competes with no one and does a nice job of carrying the film based on the early years of Queen Victoria. If you are rusty on your British sovereign history, she ruled from 1837-1901.For 20 of these years, she was married to her true love, Prince Albert (played well by Rupert Friend). While the two meet as youngsters, the bond between them comes from their letters ... an early precursor to eHarmony?? We know Victoria mostly from royal portraits, so it's nice to see her as a rebellious youngster trying to learn the tricks of the trade, even while being manipulated like a pawn by her mother (Miranda Richardson) and her lover (Mark Strong). We get to see her tenacity blossom as she matures and literally grows into the monarchy.While Ms. Blunt's performance is strong, Julian Fellowes' writing is not at the level of his previous work in Gosford Park. We do get some of the same power plays, but it is missing the nuances of that much better film.
Greetings again from the darkness. Not so many years ago, Woody Allen was thought of as the quintessential New York City filmmaker (along with Martin Scorcese). He understood that and even poked fun at himself in his most popular film Annie Hall. At age 75, Mr. Allen remains an incredibly prolific filmmaker cranking out a new script and film every year. With his recent work, he has ventured outside of NYC and into England, Spain and now France. Clearly these new locales have re-energized his creativity.The script for Midnight in Paris is some of his best writing in years, and he explores our love of nostalgia without sacrificing the customary relationship struggles. While I hold steadfast to my rule of providing no spoilers, a quick glance at the character names gives you all the clues you need to put the basic idea in place.Owen Wilson plays Gil, a financially successful Hollywood screenwriter who longs to be a serious novelist in the vein of his literary heroes from 1920's Paris. Gil goes on vacation to Paris with his fiancé Inez (Rachel McAdams) and her parents (Kurt Fuller and Mimi Kennedy). Of course the parents don't like Gil and it doesn't take long (maybe one scene) for us to figure out that Gil and Inez are misfits as a couple.In an attempt to escape the yammering of Inez's know-it-all friend played by Michael Sheen, Gil goes wandering the nighttime streets of Paris. What happens next is either science-fiction or the culmination of Gil's dreams. The bell tolls midnight and Gil is whisked away via a classic Peugeot to the world of literary giants he so worships.Half the fun as a viewer in this one is staying alert to pick up the clues to the references: Zelda and F Scott Fitzgerald, Josephine Baker, Juan Belmonte, Alice B Toklas, Djuna Barnes, TS Eliot, Matisse, Leo Stein, Toulouse-Lautrec, Gaugin, Degas, Cole Porter and Picasso. Kathy Bates spikes the film with her lively turn as Gertrude Stein. Corey Stoll makes a ferociously direct Ernest Hemingway. Adrien Brody offers up a slightly off-center Salvador Dali - good for a laugh.This movie plays kind of like an all-star game. A chance to see all the names and players that you have heard about ... all under one roof. For film lovers, there is a great little exchange between Owen Wilson's character and Luis Bunuel. Woody has created a 90 minute tribute to all of us (like Gil) who have yearned to work with and live among the artistic giants. I would love to see Mr. Allen's notes as he put this idea together. We can only imagine what didn't make the film! Despite all the fun of inside jokes, the romantic idea of nostalgia and wishing for a better time is discussed and analyzed. Mr. Allen tells us that EVERYONE, no matter their era, has a romantic vision of some previous time which they believe would better suit their style and creative force. The story is balanced by having Gil's novel based in a nostalgia store, and he ends up meeting an intriguing young lady (Lea Seydoux) at a Paris store that sells old records and books.As always, Mr. Allen has beautiful music accompanying his words and scenes. This time we are also treated to some breathtaking images of Paris, the Seine, and wonderful works of art (Rodin, Picasso, etc). Of course casting Carla Bruni, wife to the President of France (Nicolas Sarkozy) might have entitled him to film in settings we don't often see in movies. One gets the impression that this one was quite a bit of fun for Woody to assemble. If you enjoy art or literary history, you too will find this to be one jolly easter egg hunt!
Greetings again from the darkness. Just back from a Dallas screening of the Coen Brothers latest, and once again I am in awe of their filmmaking proficiency. For those concerned about a remake of the John Wayne classic, fear not! Joel and Ethan instead remain true to the Charles Portis novel. In fact, the Portis prose is what adds the uniqueness to this story of revenge.One may assume that Jeff Bridges as Rooster Cogburn would dominate the movie, but I suggest to you that relative newcomer Hailee Steinfeld (as Mattie Ross) more than holds her own, and in fact, often carries the story. We never once doubt her commitment to the cause ... hunting down the man who shot her father. That man, Tom Chaney, is played in a most peculiar manner by Josh Brolin. Brolin's dim-witted Chaney borders on a cartoon character, except he has a real mean streak.There are so many wonderful touches in this film that I am not sure where to start. Obviously, the Portis dialogue jumps out immediately. Watching the grizzled, grungy cowpokes and this 14 year old farm girl spout off such beautiful prose forces a smile to your face. It is an enjoyable challenge just to keep up with the banter between Cogburn, Mattie and LaBoeuf (Matt Damon), a Texas Ranger who also happens to be hunting Chaney. There are also hilarious exchanges between Mattie and a local horse trader, and later Barry Pepper (as Ned Pepper) joins in with some top notch verbal sparring.DP Roger Deakins does his thing with the camera and landscape. We feel we are right there on the dusty trail or on a snowy ride. The wardrobe, guns and town all come across as totally authentic and add to the richness of the film. There are no hokey vista shots without purpose. Everything in the film has a reason and contributes to the cause of presenting a terrific western story of revenge and retribution. Watching the bond develop between the main characters is quite moving, and though I wasn't ready for it to end, I found the ending quite acceptable.The trailer for this film is one of my favorites of the year. Johnny Cash singing "God's Gonna Cut You Down" is not in the film, but it certainly set the mood. So, no real surprise here, but another fantastic film from the Coen Brothers. You don't have to be a lover of westerns to enjoy this one and, please, no worries about Jeff Bridges facing off against John Wayne. There is room for both!
Greetings again from the darkness. I have not read David Nicholls' novel, but my understanding is that it is extremely well written and its loyal readers really connected with Emma and Dexter. If that's true, then this film version is even worse than I thought while watching.This literally is my least favorite type of movie. A movie that assumes its viewers are unable to think for themselves or judge the actions of its characters. In other words, the filmmakers take for granted that we will accept whatever is shown on the big screen.First let me say that I completely understand the school girl crush that a young Emma (Anne Hathaway) has on her classmate Dexter (Jim Sturgess). He is handsome and charismatic and comes from more money than she. I also understand Dexter's attraction to the lovely Emma. She is very pretty - despite the ridiculous over-sized glasses for the early scenes - and very intelligent, and a significantly nicer person than he.What makes absolutely no sense to me is her continued attraction to this drunken, empty soul for the next twenty years. She is too smart to pine away the years hoping he will wise up and coming running to her. We are supposed to believe that she has no interest in any other relationship other than the non-threatening one with flopping stand-up comedian Ian (played by Timothy Spall's son Rafe) and a "boring" French Jazz Pianist.Dexter's mother is played by Patricia Clarkson. As she is dying from cancer, she tells him that she believes he will grow into a good man, but isn't there yet. I guess we are supposed to take her word for it. Instead we only see Dexter go from a selfish pig as a TV personality to a defeated man who must perform manual labor for the first time in his life. My issue is that a defeated man is not necessarily a good man. A man resigned to his life has not necessarily reached enlightenment. Where is Emma's proof that he deserves her? Where is the indication that her life with him will be better? I tell you where ... in the mind of that school girl from years ago.Please don't mistake my words as that of one who has no faith in romantic stories. There are so many ways this story could have turned that it would have had me. Instead it chose a path that assumed I was ignorant ... totally accepting of ridiculous story being laid out for me.My final comments on the film involve the cast. Anne Hathaway is an incredibly talented performer. She is not, however, British. Her accent is terribly distracting. Jim Sturgess is a handsome guy, but just not charismatic enough to pull off the TV personality role. Patricia Clarkson is a fantastic actress, but she is not British either. Seriously, are there not enough British actresses? The casting smells like a money-grubbing production team. As for director Lone Scherfig ... her previous film An Education was cinematic excellence. This is an unacceptable follow-up and we expect better next time.I will say the locations of Edinburg, London and Paris were beautiful and different than we usually get from the movies. That provided the only real enjoyment from this highly disappointing movie.
Greetings again from the darkness. Ordinarily, a film with Rosamund Pike and Bruce Greenwood in key roles would be sufficient for me to stay home and watch The Nature Channel. However, Paul Giamatti and Dustin Hoffman, as son and father, in a story based on Mordecai Richler's novel was motivation enough for me to buck up and give this one a shot. And what a pleasant surprise this film is.Giamatti has mastered the role of cynical, self-absorbed, frumpy schlub and his Barney is every bit that. The story is told through extended flashbacks after we learn a detective has written a book accusing Barney of killing his best friend (Scott Speedman). No charges were brought and it's not until the end in an extremely creative reveal that we understand what really happened that day at the lake. Unfortunately, we aren't sure if Barney ever understands, but that's a whole different topic.Barney's first marriage comes about because his girlfriend gets pregnant. This one ends in tragedy and betrayal and allows Barney to spend much of his life on the path of cynicism, alcoholism and cigar-chain-smoking. He is no pretty sight - from inside or out. He stumbles into his second marriage, this one to Minnie Driver. Ms. Driver is wonderful as the Jewish princess with a Master's Degree. How do we know? She continually reminds us of both facts. Ever known anyone that just constantly reminds you of how smart they are? How this marriage ends leads to the whole suspicion of murder and loss of best friend for Barney.The real key to the story occurs at the wedding. Instead of worshiping his new bride, Barney watches hockey, does shots with his Dad (Dustin Hoffman) and experiences love at first sight ... not with his bride, but with a guest played by Rosamund Pike. This encounter puts Barney on a singular mission of winning over Ms. Pike, despite his marriage to Driver. Can't really give anything away here other than the story is very clever in how it handles the pursuit, failed marriage and subsequent true love story.Only thing is, Barney never really "gets" what true love is. Pike has a wonderful scene where she explains that life and love are in "the seconds, the minutes, the routines". Barney nods but is clearly in over his head in so many ways.What I really appreciate about this story is how there are so many relationships that seem to spring from reality ... people we know in situations we've been in. The title, of course, refers to Barney's version of reality. How he sees things. We could each replace his name with ours for a movie on our life. Do we see reality, or is reality how we interpret these seconds, minutes, routines? The answer seems pretty clear.The film is directed by Richard J. Lewis (not the comedian) but is really a product of the amazing story and talented cast led by the extraordinary performance of Giamatti. Dustin Hoffman's scenes are all excellent, and his real life son Jake, plays his grandson in the film. Don't miss the quick scenes featuring standout directors Atom Egoyan, David Cronenberg and Ted Kotcheff. It's also character actor extraordinare Maury Chaykin's final film. And I certainly can't omit mention of the fabulous soundtrack featuring T-Rex, JJ Cale, Donovan and others. Leonard Cohen's "I'm Your Man" plays over the closing credits so don't leave early!
Greetings again from the darkness. Has there ever been a bad Pixar movie? Nope. And as many really good movies they have created, there are now two truly great ones: Toy Story and Toy Story 3. The first one (released 15 years ago) transformed the way animation is made and set the standard for kids' movies that parents can also enjoy. This third installment takes animated story telling to the next level.Of course all the great voices are back: Woody (Tom Hanks), Buzz (Tim Allen), Jessie (Joan Cusack), Mr. and Mrs. Potato Head (Don Rickles, Estelle Harris), Rex (Wallace Shawn), Hamm (John Ratzenberger) and Sarge (R Lee Ermey). Imagine assembling that cast and then adding two fabulous new characters: Lotsa Huggin' Bear (Ned Beatty), Ken (Michael Keaton; expanding Jodi Benson's Barbi to a key role, and re-vamping Slinky-dog with Blake Clark taking over for his deceased friend, the fabulous Jim Varney. This is major star power and an over-abundance of talent! Then again, we have all seen stellar casts fall flat without a worthy script. Fear not as Pixar legend John Lasseter (Exec Producer here) has passed the reins again to director Lee Unkrich (Toy Story 2, Finding Nemo, Monsters, Inc.). This story is brilliant and engaging. I challenge anyone from age 5 to 95 to avoid being drawn in to the themes of separation, friendship, loyalty, and power.There are some laugh outloud moments along with the usual wise cracks from Buzz and Potato head. This time we are also treated to some darker moments with Lotsa, a power-hungry stuffed bear, and his band of misfits that include a giant baby doll and Chuckles, the creepiest clown this side of Poltergeist, and especially the frightening/funny monkey working security.Some Pixar touches include the voice of Andy is provided by the grown up voice actor who did Andy in the first, a couple of glimpses of the evil kid Sid (first Toy Story) who has grown up to be a garbage man (same shirt) and the re-use of Randy Newman's classic song "You've Got a Friend in Me". Too many other "little" moments to mention, but this is pure film genius and should not be missed.
Greetings again from the darkness. Very disappointing movie offering little more than 90 minutes of music videos wrapped around a very weak story of attraction and chasing one's dreams. It has all been done much better numerous times.Glen Hansard sings his way through the film and I personally enjoy his music very much. Marketa Irglova, as his muse, is truly enchanting and a pleasure to look at and listen to. But I never bought the sparks between the two and certainly never saw any real bond other than the music.Cool music and a hand held camera make for a nice little home movie but should not be considered fine film making. A story and a script would go a long way in improving this one from musician/director John Carney.
Greetings again from the darkness. Generally speaking, I love the revenge/vigilante justice genre. Specifically speaking, this one is just garbage. It has no soul ... just tons of gun play and fireworks. When the genre is at its best, the viewer is sucked in to rationalizing the vigilante actions of the tormented protagonist. In "Death Sentence", we are robbed of the emotional breakdown ... plus we only get one moment of "snap"! Brought to us by director James Wan (the infinitely better "Saw") and novelist Brian Garfield (the infinitely better "Death Wish" series) and screenplay by Ian Jeffers (who should be prevented from touching a keyboard for infinity and beyond); "Death Sentence" is a poorly written, rarely believable train wreck. This genre only works when reality plays a role.On the plus side, Kevin Bacon (of whom I am not much of a fan) is tremendous and does his best to play it with raw emotion. What a shame he wastes such a performance on a poorly written script. Also strong is Garrett Hedlund (also very good in "Friday Night Lights") as the gang leader who starts this mess by encouraging a rookie to become a man by killing Bacon's golden child son. A real hoot, John Goodman seems to have a blast playing a bad guy and back alley gun dealer. Those are the thickest lenses I have ever seen on a pair of glasses! On the negative, everything else. In particular Aisha Tyler, in the stereotypical detective role, is brutally awful as an actress and it is amplified here by some of the worst writing one will ever experience on screen. I assume she rebuffed Ian Jeffers advances and he decided to seek revenge by giving her Hollywood's worst lines.If you are desperate for gunplay, blood and violence and don't feel the need for a decent story or realistic dialogue, then this is your movie.
Greetings again from the darkness. Movies based on true stories and real people tend to receive the benefit of the doubt from me when they exaggerate those truths and characters. The real life Sam Childers at the beginning of the movie is an ex-con, druggie, gun-loving drug dealer, thug, lousy dad, worse husband, and overall man of failed character. When he finds God, he loses the drug labels but the only other thing that really changes is his postal address.Sam Childers sees himself as a modern day crusader working to make a better life for the war orphans in Sudan. It's impossible to argue that he hasn't had an impact on lives. The real question is, at what cost and by what methods? Over the closing credits, we even get a clip of the real Sam asking us "does it matter how?".You will find no debate here for whether or not this man has made a difference or whether his methods should be judged. This space is merely for analyzing the movie which is telling a story. Gerard Butler does an admirable job making Sam a somewhat sympathetic character. Re-read my first paragraph if you think that's easy! Michelle Monaghan plays Lynn, his incredibly supportive wife who actually helped Sam find God, rather than continue his criminal, drug-addled ways with friend Donnie (Michael Shannon).While I found the story of the Sudanese children to be heart-breaking, the choppy and fragmented manner in which it's presented was quite annoying. The story began in 1998 but we never really knew what year it was or how much time had passed between Sam's trips home. Many of the gun battle scenes came across very staged and set-up for a cool shot of Butler brandishing a weapon and bandanna.So while I found the story to be quite interesting, I found the delivery to be less than adequate. This despite fine performances from Butler, Monaghan, Shannon, Kathy Baker and Madeline Carroll. There are numerous magazine articles about Sam Childers and I believe you will find those more accurate and informative.
Greetings again from the darkness. Wonderful character study from writer/director Tom McCarthy, who was also the creative force behind the even better "The Station Agent". McCarthy, a well known character actor, breaks a Hollywood taboo by casting a character actor in the lead role. The move is genius.The main reason this film works is the subtle, soulful performance of screen veteran Richard Jenkins. Jenkins plays a college professor who is going through life's motions while buried in his own solitude (presumably since the death of his wife). He is jolted back to the land of living through an unexpected confrontation with an illegal alien couple well played by Haaz Sleiman and Danai Jekesia Guirira.It is easy to understand how Jenkins is so drawn to Sleiman's engaging, charismatic, energetic, drum playing Tariq. Watching Jenkins connect with this guy through drum playing is just fascinating.Of course, the film takes a turn when law enforcement officials stumble onto the illegal alien issue. While the whole subject is touched upon, this is no political statement film. The really interesting part begins when Tariq's mother arrives and has an even greater impact on Jenkins.This is a very simple story based around a complex subject. The real fun is watching the four main characters interact. All are strong performances, but each is extremely subtle. If you enjoy the finer points of human nature, you will enjoy this one immensely.
Greetings again from the darkness. A really good film from writer/director Luca Guadagnino and a terrific performance from Tilda Swinton. The film centers on power and family and trust and self-discovery ... and the complexities of each.As a young, working class Russian, Emma (Tilda Swinton) is whisked away to marriage and life in the aristocracy of Milan. She dutifully raises her kids and organizes huge dinners and parties at their mansion as the Rechhi's entertain business clients and their own family. It is during these parties that we realize Emma is technically part of the family, but really is still an outsider. She escapes to her own space once the events are running smoothly.Being an avid cook herself, she easily clicks with a brilliant young chef introduced to the family by her own son. Very little doubt where it's headed at this point as Emma unleashes the pent up energy she has been forced to hide. While we are very aware that the upper crust has learned to look the other way with infidelity, that's not the case with the Rechhi's and their Russian wife/mother.The brilliance in the film is that it shows how the younger generation doesn't really fit any better than Emma. The difference is that they are part of the fabric and will be allowed more rope than an outsider. Still it is painful to watch Emma and her son, who can't quite adapt to the family business. Better yet, to watch her with her daughter, who confesses her preference for other women. Emma sees herself in these two, but doesn't have the same freedom. Her best ally is the caretaker who seems to understand the multiple levels on which this family functions.Fascinating interactions and complex writing make this a film for film lovers. There is so little dialogue, but so much is said with a glance or head nod. Many U.S. writers could learn a thing or two. Must also mention the startling score by John Adams. It is quite operatic, which plays along with the themes of the film.
Greetings again from the darkness. Director Steven Soderbergh says this is it. His final film. At age 50, he says he is walking away from making movies. Over the years, he has provided some good and some not so good, but never has he bored us. Movie lovers will always be grateful to him for his 1989 Sex, Lies and Videotape, which single-handedly brought the spotlight back to indie film. While I am quite skeptical of his retirement claim, it's noteworthy because the absence of one of today's true auteur's would be a loss for the art of cinema.As for this "last" film, it begins as Hitchcock-esque, but concludes as more like Basic Instinct or Dressed to Kill. Put simply, the first half is mesmerizing while the second half devolves into a trashy pulp thriller.The first half brought to mind the term pharmacological thriller. It seems as though Soderbergh and frequent collaborator Scott Z Burns (Contagion, The Informant!) are making a statement about our current societal trend of seeking answers, or at least treatment, through medication ... despite the risky side effects. We meet Emily and Martin Taylor (Rooney Mara and Channing Tatum) as he is released from prison (insider trading) and she is falling back into her depressive ways. She is soon enough being treated by Dr. Jonathan Banks (Jude Law), a doctor who seems typical in his belief that finding the right pill cures most ills.Since this is a suspense thriller filled with numerous twists and double, even triple-crossings, it's impossible to go too deep into what happens without spoilers ... something I won't do here. What can be said is the pharmacological thriller shifts into legal drama and finally a who-done-what kind of conclusion. The solving of the mystery comes courtesy of another oft-used Hitchcock theme: the wronged man seeking vindication.Rooney Mara and Jude Law are both excellent here and to whatever extent the story works for you, they deserve the credit along with Soderbergh. Ms. Mara was outstanding in the American version of The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo, and Mr. Law continues his transition from lame rom-com's to quality dramatic actor. The same shouldn't be said for Catherine Zeta-Jones, who plays Dr Victoria Seibert, Emily's first psychiatrist. Every scene she shares and every line she speaks just screams "look at me", not a desired quality for a supporting role.Support work is provided by Polly Draper, Mamie Gummer (Meryl Streep's daughter), Vinessa Shaw, Peter Friedman, Laila Robins, and Ann Dowd. Soderbergh does not disappoint from a technical aspect. His odd camera angles and unique shots are quite impressive and effective in sustaining the mood, even as the story spirals towards far-fetched. If it's truly his swan song, it seems appropriate that we see both the highs and lows of director Soderbergh. Here's hoping he returns very soon to the medium where his impact is needed.
Greetings again from the darkness. Having not read Sue Monk Kidd's novel, I was expecting a sappy, soulless, chick flick that would have me rolling my eyes for a couple of hours. Instead, director Gina Prince-Bythewood (Love & Basketball) delivers a very engaging film with a message and some very strong performances.Dakota Fanning plays Lily, who accidentally killed her mother at four, and has since lived with her white trash, redneck despicable father (Paul Bettany). Lily and her nanny Rosaleen (Jennifer Hudson) runoff to some small town dot on a map thanks to a clue Lily's mom left on one of her few remaining personal items. They arrive at the home/business of August, June and May Boatright (Queen Latifah, Alicia Keys and Sopie Okonedo) who harvest and bottle the best honey in town. What follows is a smörgåsbord of odd family life that slowly gives hope to young Lily.Based in 1964, the film dips its toe into the Civil Rights Act and the ongoing racism of the south, but focuses more on the strength of love and family ... even in a Pepto Bismol home! The performances are all very strong but three standouts are Dakota Fanning, Paul Bettany and Sophie Okonedo.Ms. Fanning is now 14 years old and she delivers a remarkable performance ... and what feels like the first where her screaming skills aren't overused (War of the Worlds, Man on Fire). She strikes me as a young Jodie Foster ... one who has just transitioned from child actor to real actress. I can't wait to see where her career takes her. Mr. Bettany is such a shock here as he typically plays a well dressed, under-spoken Brit (which is what he is in real life!). As a southern redneck whose bitterness rages against the world, he not only pulls it off, but manages to make grits seem even worse than I previously thought. Ms. Okonedo (so amazing in Hotel Rwanda) pulls off the always difficult task of making a "special" adult seem very real and vital. A most touching performance from a top notch talent.This is a good story with strong performances, though to take the next step as a film, it needed to dig a little deeper into its wide range of characters and settings. Still, definitely worth seeing.
Greetings again from the darkness. If anyone ever asks "What was the name of that late 60's goth, supernatural soap opera with the cult following?", it's safe to assume they mean the TV series "Dark Shadows". It ran from 1966-1971 for a remarkable 1225 episodes. For those who remember it, the image they recall tends to be actor Jonathan Frid as Barnabus Collins ... the first vampire any of us ever saw outside of a Friday night horror film. The series made quite an impact on two young boys in particular: Tim Burton and Johnny Depp.There are many reasons that movies get made. Pet projects or labors of love are not as common these days because of high production costs. But that's exactly what this movie is - a pet project for Burton and Depp. They clearly have fun with the characters, and the film dallies ever closely to the parody line. The initial set-up is brilliant and dark and ominous, leading us to believe this film will be in line with Burton's Sleepy Hollow or Corpse Bride. Instead, the rest of the movie is more in line with Beetlejuice. Definitely not a bad thing - just different than what we were prepped for.Johnny Depp gives a wonderful performance as Barnabus Collins, the rich young man cursed by Angelique, the witch he spurns in love. His curse is to be turned into a vampire and buried alive. When his casket is discovered 196 years later, the world of 1972 is quite different than the one he left. He comically struggles to fit in and make sense of it all ... not the least of which is his remaining family. At his beloved Collinswood Manor lives Elizabeth Collins Stoddard (Michelle Pfeiffer), Roger Collins (Jonny Lee Miller), Carolyn Stoddard (Chloe Grace Moretz), David Collins (Gulliver McGrath), the live-in child psychiatrist Dr Hoffman (Helena Bonham Carter), and their recently hired nanny Victoria (Bella Heathcote). While he was buried, the wicked witch Angelique (Eva Green) becomes the most powerful figure in town.Burton does a nice job poking fun at the 1970's with comedy that won't mean much to today's youngsters, but will hit home with those from the era. The art direction and sets are terrific, especially Collinwood Manor. The music of the 70's is used to comic effect, including a live performance by Alice Cooper. Michelle Pfeiffer does the best job at capturing the look and feel of the original series, but her daughter's character (Moretz) takes an unnecessary turn as Burton tries to cram as much in as possible. In fact, the film is actually quite fun to watch, but is lacking real substance in the story department ... not dissimilar to the original series.This is the 8th film collaboration between Burton and Depp. They make a wonderful team, and Depp has added another entertaining character to his Captain Jack Sparrow, Edward Scissorhands, Mad Hatter legacy. His movements and speech pattern are especially entertaining as we are mesmerized by his milky white complexion. His dialogue (written by Seth Grahame-Smith) demands attention and is both comical and majestic simultaneously. Burton's tribute to the TV series includes cameos by four of the original actors: Jonathan Frid, Kathryn Leigh Scott, Lara Parker and David Selby as guests at the ball. It's a classy touch. Danny Elfman's score is a bit overwhelmed by the use of numerous 70's classics, and it was disappointing to hear The Killers version of "Go All the Way" rather than The Raspberries as the closing credits rolled.Burton is one of the more visual directors and even though the story is a bit lacking, each scene gives us plenty to absorb. The ghosts are especially well done, as is the fishing town of Collinsport which was built just for the movie. It has many similarities to Bodega Bay, which film lovers will recognize as the setting for Hitchcock's The Birds. Lastly, Burton gives us another scene with the great Christopher Lee - this time as a boat captain caught between Angelique and Barnabus. Good stuff.
Greetings again from the darkness. Paul Haggis, Russell Crowe, Elizabeth Banks, Liam Neeson? Count me in! Oh wait, you mean there is more to making a quality movie than just gathering together a bunch of talented people? Well if you need proof ...Maybe my expectations were too high. Paul Haggis has proved himself to be a remarkable writer (Crash, Million Dollar Baby) and an excellent director (Crash, In the Valley of Elah). Russell Crowe is one of the finest actors working. Elizabeth Banks is a stunning talent - both highly comedic and full of range. Liam Neeson adds a touch of class to every film he is in (this one's no exception). The film is watchable, but such a stretch from the real world.The best part of the film is the scene with Crowe and Neeson. Neeson's character has escaped from SEVEN prisons and Crowe needs some tips so he can bust out his wife (Banks) who has been wrongly (maybe, maybe not) convicted of murder. The scene plays awfully close to an infomercial on "How to Break out of Prison" hosted by Liam Neeson. OK, I didn't say the scene was believable, just the best in the film. Try not to wonder how a guy that breaks out of prison SEVEN times (and finally surrenders because he is tired of looking over his shoulder) is actually a free man able to meet Crowe for coffee.What I am most disappointed in is the manner in which Crowe's college professor frump of a man transforms into an action figure after meeting with Neeson and getting his rear end kicked trying to buy fake ID's. Suddenly he is out-gunning drug dealers and driving the fastest ever Prius in reverse down a dark alley ... and then going head to head with strategy against some near clairvoyant detectives. Wow.Certainly not going to tell you if Crowe's plan actually works or if somehow he masters the art of flexibility while on the run. Whatever happens, I would have preferred him to remain true to his character early in the film. I totally get his frustration with the system and his desperation to free his wife - just not the quick transformation to modern day Gladiator.The supporting cast in the film is given very little to do. Olivia Wilde (thirteen from House) is wasted as the mother of a friend to Crowe's kid. Daniel Stern has one scene as Banks' attorney. RZA plays an unscrupulous drug dealer (redundant?). While it's great to see Brian Dennehy on screen as Crowe's father, it is unfortunate he is reduced to being near silent and all-knowing.The movie would make a fine diversion on one of those sleepless nights when it hits cable, but right now, I am just annoyed at the waste of talent and the lack of effort to make a better film.
Greetings again from the darkness. Billed as 'from the makers of Talladega Nights and Anchorma', this one doesn't come close to either. Sure Adam McKay and Will Ferrell are as listed Producers, and Mr Ferrell has another of his unending string of cameos, but the film has none of the charm or big laughs that those two far superior comedies offer.Jeremy Piven just can't carry a film ... and I believe he is a talented actor. But after this one, Smokin Aces and Keeping up with the Steins, he has proved to be much more effective in supporting roles (see Entourage). His career will last much longer if he will just embrace the supporting role. In this film, he is so over the top that his character is neither a parody nor believable nor really very funny. Comedy works best if we feel a touch of empathy or even hatred for the lead. Here, I liked the movie best when Piven was not in a scene (which rarely happened).The good things about the film are the work of Bab's husband James Brolin, the interesting Kathryn Hahn, the raging Charles Napier, "10 yr old pituitary case" Rob Riggle, and Cameron Diaz lookalike Jordana Spiro. But the absolute best part is the fast rising Ed Helms (The Office, The Hangover). He really goes all out in his role as spoiled grown-up in a "man band".For two better comedies set at a car lot, see Used Cars (with Kurt Russell and the great Jack Warden) and Cadillac Man (Tim Robbins and Rosin Williams). For better comedies ... the list is limitless.
Greetings again from the darkness. An award winning film at Sundance, this one seems to carry the same polarizing effect that "Tree of Life" does. The reviews and comments have been discordant and contentious. After sitting through a Q&A with Mike Cahill (co-writer, director) and Brit Marling (co-writer, star) I am guessing they are taking great pride in the love/hate responses. Their film was designed to take you deep ... make you think and self-analyze. This is not a fluffy Owen Wilson rom-com. Explaining what it is, well, that's a challenge.The story begins with Rhoda (Brit Marling) out for a night of partying. We learn she has been accepted to M.I.T. and that she is quite the space and astronomy lover. Her very poor decision to drive home after drinking results in a horrific accident that changes her life and that of a young family. At the same time, scientists discover "another Earth" has been hiding on the other side of the sun. Flash forward four years as Rhoda is released from prison.She is a broken spirit whose bright future has been dashed. She tracks down the man who survived the crash she caused and has every intention of apologizing. Instead, she cleans his house. She finds John (William Mapother) has dropped out of society and found numbness in the bottle.I won't say more about the story because it is really something to watch unfold. What I will say is that I found the advertisements to be somewhat misleading. This is not a sci-fi film per se. Sure the second earth brings about numerous questions concerning the "other" us. What would we say? How would we react? Have I done better there than here? But that is actually an underlying element to this story ... always present in our thoughts and those of Rhoda. Instead, this film is a psychological drama. And a dark one at that.You will recognize William Mapother (The Grudge, Lost), who plays John. He has a regular guy look to him and stretches well from happiness to depression to, once again, showing a spark. Brit Marling is one you don't know, but will soon enough. She is an amazing presence on screen and avoids the Hollywood acting crutches. She plays Rhoda as the damaged, confused creature she is in the story. Very well done.A couple of other interesting notes include Kumar Pallana (The Royal Tenenbaums)as Purdeep. With minimal screen time, his character provides Rhoda with a lesson she needs. There is also a scene where John plays a saw as a musical instrument. The sound is amazing and the music is actually from Natalia Paruz, who is knows as the "saw lady". Other music in the film is outstanding and courtesy of Fall on Your Sword. Very unique, but a perfect fit for the film.
Greetings again from the darkness. Thanks to The Dallas Film Society and movie critic Chris Vognar, we were lucky enough to watch this on the big screen from a 35mm print! If you enjoy the pulp thrillers from the 1950's, this is one you must track down. It provides so much to discuss for a little 80 minute B-movie! Directed by Samuel Fuller, we get a real taste of his man's man background. Not only was Fuller a well-known war correspondent, he also served in WWII, including Omaha Beach on D-Day. This movie provided him with a stellar cast: Richard Widmark as Skip, Jean Peters as Candy, Thelma Ritter as Moe, and Richard Kiley as Joey. It is a story of the times as small-time pickpocket Skip, works his magic fingers on Candy's purse while they are facing each other on the subway.The real fun begins as we watch the police, the feds and the communists all trying to hunt him down. The reason? He unknowingly stole top secret US information that was being passed to the commies. This film noir has some really tough elements. Heck, Skip even punches Candy right in the jaw! The lighting, score and fight scenes are all no-nonsense and direct. It's really fun to watch the eye movements of the key players. It's obvious none of the characters are comfortable in the situation, no matter how smooth they try to be.The great Thelma Ritter runs off with each of her scenes. She plays Moe, the local stool pigeon who plays everyone for a buck. Ms. Ritter was nominated for an Oscar for her role (one of four in a row for her), but it was another in her long line of 6 nominations and no wins. This may be her best work. Another of my all time favorite character actors makes a brief appearance as one of the commies: Willis Bouchey. And don't miss Milburn Stone as a detective. Mr. Stone would go on to star as Doc on "Gunsmoke" for twenty years.The film features some terrific lines. One of my favorites is "Everybody likes everybody when they're kissing." Another is "I would rather have a live pickpocket than a dead traitor." Fun stuff. Should also mention that Jean Peters went on to become the wife of Howard Hughes and her acting days abruptly ended. After their divorce, she made a couple of TV appearances, but was unable to recapture the magic of these early years. Should also note that this film was re-made (weakly) in 1969 as The Cape Town Affair.
Greetings again from the darkness. Any movie lover with a sense of history has to get at least a little excited about a star vehicle featuring Al Pacino, Christopher Walken, and Alan Arkin. These three screen legends together prove the adage ... worth the price of admission. And that's a good thing, because there is little else that works for this movie.The movie unfolds like a tribute to its three stars. That's not a compliment. First time screenwriter Noah Haidle and character actor-turned director Fisher Stevens simply lack the chops to provide material worthy of the cast. So we get Pacino doing a Tony Montana growl and A Scent of the Woman dance; Walken doing his deadpan delivery; and Arkin his half-crazed, life-loving act. What we don't see is a story line that pushes any of them to a "wow" moment.Pacino plays Val, and we meet him on the day of his release after 28 years in prison. He's picked up by Doc, his old partner in crime (literally) played by Christopher Walken. There are a couple of not so secrets twists that try to keep it interesting, but the best part comes when they spring their old driver Hirsch (Arkin) from the nursing home and oxygen mask.The night on the town allows for plenty of female interactions: a brothel run by Lucy Punch, a nurse played by Julianna Marguiles, another brothel visit, revenge for a female victim played by Vanessa Ferlito, and multiple chats with a young diner waitress. Unfortunately, it also provides entirely too much alcohol, numerous penis jokes, an extended (so to speak) Viagra sequence and attempts at laughter thanks to hyper-tension and insurance co-pays.The old guys do their best to uphold the code from the good ol' days - both as gangsters and actors. It's just inexcusable that the script wasn't improved to take advantage of this talent. Despite that, there was a certain sense of nostalgia that proved enjoyable watching these guys on screen together. www.MovieReviewsFromTheDark.wordpress.com
Greetings again from the darkness. 75 years ago, the first Superman comic book was published. It would be quite challenging to name very many kids who have not imagined themselves as Superman at some point during that time. Numerous Superman re-boots have occurred in various media: comics, TV, movies, video games, toys, etc., and the bigger the fan, the more etched in mind what the Man of Steel should look and act like. Woe to the filmmaker who doesn't share that fan's vision.Enter director Zack Snyder, writer David S Goyer, and writer/producer Christopher Nolan. This triumvirate has been responsible for such comic based movie material as The Dark Knight franchise, 300, Watchmen, and Blade. Some of the criticisms of this most recent Superman presentation include a lack of fun, the absence of humor, no love story, too much backstory, an overabundance of action and CGI, and a hero that is much too serious ... and that's a list ignoring the outcry over the redesigned suit sans red briefs. As with anything, the closer to the heart, the less amenable to change folks become. At least no one is complaining about the lack of phone booths!This movie has quite the balance of visual effects and backstory. It's clearly designed to be the first in a series, and because of that, we get the foundation of Superman: the rare natural born baby on the planet Krypton - a planet speeding towards destruction. Jor-El (Russell Crowe) executes his plan to save his newborn son Kal-El by rocketing him off to Earth. While that's happening, General Zod (Michael Shannon) stages one of the most ill-timed coups ever ... he tries to seize control of the dying planet. This opening sequence is filled with some of the biggest, loudest effects of the whole movie. It's a jolting start that I wasn't particularly fond of, but it's obviously well done and with purpose. Kal-El lands on earth and becomes known as Clark Kent, adopted son of Kansas farmers played by Diane Lane and Kevin Costner. Most of Clark's childhood is glimpsed through flashbacks of specific events, and serves the purpose of giving us a taste, while not delaying the appearance of Superman ... though that name is only heard once (maybe twice). In an attempt to hide his powers, Clark becomes a drifter. However, it's impossible to keep your superhero powers secret when you rescue a group of oil rig workers by using your super strength. Enter Daily Planet super-reporter Lois Lane (Amy Adams). She's good at her job and easily figures out the big secret. But rather than contact TMZ for a giant pay day, Lois understands that this may be something the world just isn't ready to hear. Wise lady. The relationship between Lois and Clark is rudely interrupted by the reappearance of General Zod and his right hand lady-warrior (Antje Traue). See, Zod thinks he can takeover Earth and re-establish his Krypton roots ... and Superman holds the key to his plan.If you are a Superman fan, all of this makes perfect sense. If not, I suspect this movie will not hold much interest for you. If you are a fan of the 1978 version with Christopher Reeve, I would encourage you to keep an open mind. While that version wallowed in frivolous whimsy, this one is a bit darker and more philosophical ... what you might expect from an alien with super powers. Still, the subtle humor abounds here if you keep your eyes open. LexCorp references appear along with little touches that can bring a smile (12th ranked Kansas Jayhawks football??). The acting is superb throughout. Henry Cavill was the runner-up to Daniel Craig for the James Bond role, but he immediately stakes his claim to the Man of Steel. His overall look and amazing physique leave little doubt that he is Superman, and as a bonus, he is plenty of reason for the ladies to purchase a ticket. Hans Zimmer makes no attempt to one-up John Williams' iconic score from the 1978 film, yet he makes his mark, especially during the action sequences. Be prepared as this one is heavy on the Sci-Fi angle, and there is also an interesting Jesus comparison that can be made (he is 33 years on Earth).Do the right thing has always been the recurring theme for Superman and this movie version helps us understand where the moral fiber was born ... the hint is in the Royals shirt Clark wears. In addition to a terrific Smallville set, we get Laurence Fishburne as Perry White, a role which will surely be expanded in the sequel. It's very interesting to see the Snyder, Goyer, Nolan vision, and if you are still clinging to 1978, you might ask yourself ... Why so serious?
Greetings again from the darkness. Smart, sharp storytelling from veteran writer ("Minority Report") and first time director Scott Frank. This sneaky little thriller is a bit hypnotic as it slowly draws you into a web of deceit that everyone sees coming except our lead played exceedingly well by Joseph Gordon-Levitt.Prior to the car wreck Levitt was a hot shot young hockey stud with the cool friends, hot girlfriend and world at his fingertips. Afterwards, he is a muddled mess who has trouble remembering the simplest things in life. His roommate is a blind guru played well by Jeff Daniels (noted in the film as looking a bit like Larry Flynt). Levitt gets sucked into a bank heist by slick talking Matthew Goode, who is helped in the cause by a most sensual Isla Fisher.The brilliance of the story is delivered delicately in the details such as Deputy Donut and Levitt's filthy rich, twisted family. This is a film that requires a bit of investment from the viewer, but pays off with a really taut story with some unique touches. One of the best of 2007 so far.
Greetings again from the darkness. One of the most anticipated films of the year is the first from director Tom Hooper since his Oscar winning "The King's Speech". It also happens to be based on one of the true literary classics by Victor Hugo (first published 1862). Oh yes, it is presented as a true musical ... the dialogue is sung and story advanced through forty-something songs. The latter feature gives it more of an opera feel than the stage version I saw more than 20 years ago.The biggest question and curiosity going in was whether the cast of top notch movie stars could hold their own vocally. Sure, Hugh Jackman (Jean Valjean) is a Tony winner, Anne Hathaway (Fatine) has some Broadway chops of her own, Amanda Seyfried (Cosette) sang in "Mamma Mia", and Russell Crowe (Javert) has toured with his own band. But this is a whole new challenge, as director Hooper decided to have the actors sing "live" during filming, providing a more intimate feel to the film. Throw in two exceptionally strong vocal performances from Eddie Redmayne (Marius) and Samantha Barks (Eponine) and only the harshest critics will claim the singing disappoints."Seinfeld" fans will enjoy the comic relief from thieving innkeepers Sacha Baron Cohen and Helena Bonham Carter as they take advantage of their customers while belting out "Master of the House". It's pure joy to hear Colin Wilkinson's voice as The Bishop who offers Valjean his chance for redemption. Mr. Wilkinson is legendary as the original Valjean in the London and New York stage versions from the mid-80's.There were a few things that distracted me at times. The most annoying being the incessant facial close-up on every song. This is typically a device to cover-up weak set design, but here the sets are spectacular and really capture the nastiness of 19th century France. And while I certainly enjoyed Ms. Hathaways' show-stopping "I Dreamed a Dream", I found her overall acting to be quite distracting during her few scenes. Russell Crowe's physical presence perfectly captures the omnipresent Javert, though the lack of punch in his vocals prevented the boom needed in a couple of songs. Lastly, Mr. Jackman seemed to strain on the high notes in my favorite "Bring him Home", though again, none of these things ruined the experience for me.As with most film musicals, the best approach is just to allow the story and songs to wash over you ... don't dwell on the minor issues. Keep in mind that this is a powerful and interesting production thanks to Victor Hugo's source material. It's a privilege to enjoy a first rate presentation seen through new eyes and heard through new vocalists.
Greetings again from the darkness. The very imaginative and quite funny opening credit sequence sets the stage for a fun frolic through the world of corporate espionage. The only two problems ... it's not that much fun and there is very little frolicking.Writer/Director Tony Gilroy (Michael Clayton) just tries to be too clever and cute for his own good. After landing two perfect leads and two of the best character actors of this generation, Gilroy offers up a tedious, bungled mess that is really never that clever and certainly gives the feeling of holding back these four fine actors.The multi-frame look, non-linear time line, repeated dialogue and smirky exchanges between Clive and Julia are just some of the clichéd tricks used to make this seem more interesting and complicated than it really is.Clive Owen shows again that he would have made a sterling James Bond (nothing against Daniel Craig, who is excellent). Instead of his usual dark, brooding roles, he seems to thrive when he can show a bit of emotion. Luckily for the audience, we are only subjected to one of Julia Roberts' patented cackles that causes every man to cringe. For her, she is quite reserved, but just can't pull off the smartest person in the room role. Sadly, the great Tom Wilkinson is pretty much wasted in his role as one of the dueling corporate giants. Paul Giamatti, on the other hand, has the best scene in the film as he delivers over-the-top arrogance in his stockholders speech.Must also mention Tom McCarthy, not so much for his role (he is the guy handcuffed in the meeting room), but just because I have become such a fan of his directorial skills ... The Station Agent and The Visitor.If you are after a dime store version of Michael Clayton or a mostly non-funny Cary Grant type film, then this is the film for you. To me, it just doesn't deliver the quips, twist or turns that it pretends to.
Greetings again from the darkness. Things aren't always as they seem. Colonel Claus von Sauffenberg is convinced he has succeeded in his mission and proceeds to carry out the plan. The really interesting piece is how quickly so many jumped in to assist. There was an entire segment of the German population that did not buy into the Nazi propaganda.Directed by the great Bryan Singer (The Usual Suspects), the film shows us one of the 15 reported assassination attempts on Adolph Hitler. The film is beautifully shot and flows very well. My two issues with the film are the difficulty in believing this small group of outcasts could pull this off, and the site of Tom Cruise in nearly every scene.Hard to imagine this film gathering much of a following given the star and the subject matter plus the fact that it is only enjoyable to watch from a technical aspect. The supporting cast is pretty strong and especially good are Tom Wilkinson and Thomas Kretschmann.If this subject matter appeals to you, I would highly recommend the outstanding film "Downfall". While Valkyrie is somewhat interesting, that film is downright fascinating.
Greetings again from the darkness. Sprung from the loins of the fake trailer during the double bill "Grindhouse", this one delivers everything it promises: comedy, corn, bloody violence, over-the-top political statements, and wild spoofy stunts. There really is no legitimate way to critique it or review it. If you possess the gene that allowed you to enjoy "Grindhouse", you will certainly be entertained by "Machete".Robert Rodriguez co-directed and co-wrote the film and puts his stamp all over it. There is no challenge to discovering where Mr. Rodriguez stands on the immigration issues. He is fortunate enough to be a filmmaker who can deliver a message in ways that very few can. Of course, this is not strictly speaking a message movie. It is also a spoof ... heck, it's billed as mexploitation! Danny Trejo, character actor extraordinare, finally gets his chance to carry a movie and he seizes the moment. His portrayal of Machete is with enough force and straight-face. There is little doubt that he is the Mexican federale whose family was killed by a drug kingpin (played by Steven Segal). Trejo tries to get on with his life, but is drawn right back in to the battle thanks to a local activist played by Michelle Rodriguez (based in a Taco stand ... yes, really), and by Jeff Fahey, henchman to an ultra racist State Senator played by Robert Deniro.For a movie that prides itself more on brain spatters than brain matter, there are sufficient twists to the story to keep the viewer interested. But the real fun comes in the outrageous moments like opening credits "introducing Don Johnson", and the cat-like ability of Machete to avoid certain death. Laughs ensue when Machete drags his brother into the fight. His brother? A new-age priest (Cheech Marin) packing an arsenal in the pews.All of this is going on while an immigration agent played by Jessica Alba is trying to put the squeeze on Lation legend "She", who she suspects is Michelle Rodriguez. Alba spends her lunch break playing Wii to keep fit. If all this isn't quirky enough for you, how about Lindsay Lohan playing Fahey's strung out daughter, who later in the film sports a nun's habit and a pistol? You could think of this movie along the lines of a master spoof, similar to "Airplane", only with tons of violence and explosions. The visual gags are on display, as are the one-liners that come out of left field. Mr. Rodriguez has done well for himself and his high expectation fans. I believe he knows what we want because it's exactly what he wants himself!
Greetings again from the darkness. Somewhere there must exist a checklist of the main plot lines for all the spy thrillers and action films ever made. Should you wonder what's on the checklist, then this is the movie for you. Ambition it does not lack. Striving to be an edgy Bond flick, an action-packed Bourne thriller, and a complex Le Carre mind-twister, the film, unfortunately, excels at none of these ... though does manage to be entertaining enough for the pre-fall dead zone.Pierce Brosnan stars as a retired CIA operative called back into duty 5 years after a mission gone bad (seen courtesy of flashback). His boss is played by the always interesting character actor Bill Smitrovich, but we are supposed to buy in fully to the mentor vs protégé story line of Brosnan and Luke Bracey (the next in a long line of hunky Aussies).Geopolitics, inner-office power plays, and mistaken identity all come into play, as do the innocent neighbor, an imperiled young daughter and backroom deals between the CIA and a Russian President-elect. All of this plus a quietly creepy assassin played by extremely limber gymnast Amila Terzimehic, a revenge-seeking (former Bond girl) Olga Kurylenko playing dress up, the rarely seen/scene-stealing Will Patton, car chases and crashes, gun fights, fist fights, knife fights, computer tracking and sneaky drones. Of course, all of these are on the aforementioned checklist.Director Roger Donaldson has a varied career with such films as No Way Out, Cocktail, The World's Fastest Indian (highly recommended), and The Bank Job. This film is based on Bill Granger's Devereaux novel "There Are No Spies". Donaldson's eye for action sequences are a plus, but the key here is Mr. Brosnan. He brings an edge that his James Bond never could ... he even yells a few times! However, as with most movies, the script makes or breaks, and in this case the plausibility test is badly flunked.
Greetings again from the darkness. I have never really understood my fascination with Bond as I prefer to think of myself as too intelligent for this type of movie. Maybe it was the great clothes, beautiful women, playing with guns, wonderful toys, fast cars and world travels? Well despite all of the hoopla surrounding this latest Bond production, feel relieved knowing that the 007 franchise is not only safe, but dare I say, better than ever.Daniel Craig (although a bit long in the tooth) plays the just promoted to "00", James Bond, and is flat out terrific! The acting ability he has shown in "Road to Perdition" and "Layer Cake" really take the story and script to another level. Sure he can strut and pose and gaze with the best of them (Pierce Brosnan), but Mr. Craig can really ACT, which this somewhat complex script actually demands.The action in the first 20 minutes is heart-pounding and incredibly fast and dangerous. Luckily the pace slows down a bit as the plot develops. Yes, there is a plot and this time it is not world domination. That is good news and bad news. One of the two disappointments in this fine film is the bad guy played by Mads Mikkelsen. He is a fine poker player and pretty evil in his torturing (all males will squirm), but he just lacks the real charisma of the best Bond bad guys over the years. The other disappointment is the underuse of the greatest film theme song ever (yes, better than Star Wars) and the extremely weak Chris Cornell opening credit song.Of course, there are beautiful women. Eva Green as Vespa Lynd is not your typical Bond girl. She is smart and smart-assed and goes toe-to-toe in a couple of ways with Bond. What a nice change of pace to see a woman's role written in a full scale, complex manner. It makes it much more interesting and entertaining.Did I mention fast cars? The brand new Aston Martin is almost as cool as the 1964 model we get a couple of shots of. Since there is no Q, the wonderful toys are not in full swing yet, but the incredible settings in Prague, The Bahamas and Italy more than make up for it. The scenery and architecture are awe inspiring.There may be no Q, but there is definitely an M. Judi Dench reprises her role, this time showing her frustrated side with her newest agent. She recognizes Bond's rare abilities, but worries about his mental state. By the end, she knows he is ready for more.The supporting cast includes the underrated Jeffrey Wright, the always great Giancarlo Giannini and super model Ivana Milicevic in a strange role. The cast is fine and second time Bond director Martin Campbell ("GoldenEye") really lets the action and story and setting do most of the talking. His action scenes are not filled with close ups or rapid fire editing ... we actually get to see the fights and chases. He does a nice job of keeping the viewer in the story. I couldn't help but chuckle as Craig steps out of the waves and onto the beach - almost identical to the classic Ursula Andress scene in "Dr. No". Being a huge Sean Connery fan, I find this difficult to say, but here goes ... this is the best Bond movie to date. Wow!
Greetings again from the darkness. Although not a great filmmaker, director Lasse Hallstrom has a quality resume of films including "An Unfinished Life", "Chocolat", "The Cider House Rules" and his best film, "What's Eating Gilbert Grape". It is painful to watch a liar in action ... even on film. It cuts to the core of what makes us human and our natural tendency to believe others. Combine that with another common human trait - greed - and the combination sets us up for real life con artists such as those seen in "Catch Me If You Can" and "Shattered Glass".This film is based on writer Clifford Irving's implausible con of publishing giant McGraw-Hill as he presented his "The Autobiography of Howard Hughes". His presentation was replete with high quality forged handwritten notes from the reclusive Hughes. Conspiracy theories abound as ties are made to President Nixon, Watergate and judicial system. Also touched on is Hughes' personal secret service that was supposedly loyal and well paid to protect his privacy. The conference call that Hughes makes to shut down the project and expose Mr. Irving was Hughes' last known public "appearance" until his death.The film is very entertaining and at times funny. If you weren't aware of the mystery surrounding the enigmatic Hughes during this time period, some of the power of the film will be lost. This is without a doubt Richard Gere's best film performance ever. It took much more than his usual posing and preening and mumbling ... this was a real acting job! Strong support work comes from Alfred Molina (as Dick Susskind, Irving's friend and co-conspirator) and a blonde Marcia Gay Harden as Irving's wife. Hope Davis, Stanley Tucci, Julie Delpy and the great Eli Wallach also have pivotal support roles. It is a pleasure to catch Stuart Margolin in a brief role. Have enjoyed his work since "Rockford Files".Hallstom deserves some credit for getting the performance from Gere and creating enough suspense and drama for an entertaining two hours. Worth seeing as a reminder that there are some slick con men out there and they may actually be people you kind of like. Don't miss the soundtrack with work from the great and under-appreciated Richie Havens.
Greetings again from the darkness. In a tip of the cap to the old Japanese monster movies ("Godzilla", etc), famed Korean director Joon-ho Bong delivers a surprisingly high quality film with depth and wonderful photography. Thanks to a very poor decision to dump biohazardous chemicals into the Han River, we are treated to a genetic mutation that is part Loch Ness Monster, part T-Rex and part unknown amphibian ... although not the Amazonian River Dolphin! The freaky fish has Olympic gymnast skills and shows off a killer back flip into the river. Possessing some moves similar to Godzilla, our creature actually swallows people and regurgitates the bodies into a holding area located within the sewer. The depth of the story comes from the very well written interaction within our protagonist family. This family goes through some very unusual challenges in their pursuit of the creature and the captured little girl. Along the way, the government, the military and the medical professions are all targets of the filmmakers disgust. Three downsides to the film are the way the only two western doctors are portrayed ... shame on Scott Wilson for even taking the role. Also, the finale in how the monster is dealt with is very uncreative. Lastly, the sound quality of the film is definitely not up to 21st century levels. Film goers are spoiled and expect the sound to play an important part of the experience. Here the sound is detrimental to the film. Still, definitely worth seeing as a quality monster film with depth and humor. Some of the scenes are remarkably well directed and filmed ...obviously well planned and no short cuts are obvious.
Greetings again from the darkness. Combining my two favorite things in life (excluding family), baseball movies always give me pause. It is impossible for me to watch without analyzing the baseball (which rarely comes across well on screen) and often looking away in disgust. Fortunately, this one is as much about clogging as it is baseball. Baseball is merely the setting for this otherwise quite conventional family drama.Clint Eastwood plays Gus, an aging old-time baseball scout for the Atlanta Braves. Gus has his way of scouting and it doesn't include computers or any other aspect of "Moneyball". He believes in what he sees. Therein lies his biggest problem. His eyesight is failing at a time when scouting newcomers are leaning on sabermetrics. It's Gus' last chance to scout a hotshot prospect before the team offers him retirement.Gus' boss is played by John Goodman, who guilts Gus' estranged daughter into making the final scouting trip with her father. The problem is that Mickey (Amy Adams) is a rising star attorney with a shot at firm partnership. Predictably she makes the trip. Matthew Lillard plays the new wave scout who believes only in what the computer metrics tell him. It's a clash of old vs new.On the trip, we meet Johnny "Flame" played by Justin Timberlake. He's a former phenom scouted by Gus, who later blew out his arm. Johnny is now working as a scout and hoping for a broadcasting career. Adams and Timberlake have the necessary cuteness to offset the gruffness of Clint. See, everybody learns life lessons and baseball from everybody else. For those wondering, Gus named his daughter after Mickey Mantle. She should just be glad her name isn't Seven (that's for Seinfeld fans).Clint had previously announced that Gran Torino would be his final acting job. We can only presume that this is a favor for his long time producer, and first time director Robert Lorenz. Lorenz runs Malpaso, Eastwood's film production company. Eastwood plays a similar role this time out, as he is grumpy and lonely and growls a lot. He also tosses out a few funny quips and doesn't shy away from displaying the many downsides to aging.You have probably figured out that this is a corny, predictable, mainstream film. You should also know that it is entertaining enough and easily accessible, though I presume the baseball theme will keep many away. My only real issue is that the lead characters are just "too". Clint is too gruff. Amy Adams is too earnest. Timberlake is too eager. Lillard is too dastardly. This makes for a pretty simple movie with no twists you won't see coming way ahead of time. That is, unless you have the same vision problems as Gus.OK, I'll finish with this ... Clint obviously respects empty chairs more than coffee tables. One he simply argues with. The other he gets violent. (an early scene) www.moviereviewsfromthedark.wordpress.com
Greetings again from the darkness. Caught an early screening of this one and my quick description is that it's a mash-up of The Bourne Identity, Salt, and the original Mod Squad (a retro feel). In other words, it's a fun ride full of stunning fight scenes filmed with an artistry only director Steven Soderbergh can achieve.Newcomer Gina Carano stars as Mallory Kane, an independent contractor ... the type who handles dirty work for governments and powerful people who must keep their hands somewhat clean. She gets double-crossed on a Barcelona job and becomes the target herself while in Dublin. So this lethal weapon goes on a globe-trotting mission of revenge and messes up people and hotel rooms in the process. If you think a woman can't carry action scenes, then you don't realize Ms. Carano is an MMA fighter. She is the real deal. Her physical skills are on full display and leave little doubt as to her deadly talent.Since this is a Soderbergh film, you know the cast is well-stocked. We get Michael Douglas, Antonio Banderas and Ewan McGregor all at their smarmy best. Additionally we see Michael Fassbender, Channing Tatum and Bill Paxton (as Mallory's father). Trust me when I say not all of these character fare so well in their showdowns with Mallory. Though the script from Lem Dobbs is pretty basic, Soderbergh's way of telling the story is compelling enough to keep us interested between Carano's fights.The color palette alternates between the brown/gold Soderbergh used for Traffic, and the blue/gray from his Ocean's franchise. The jazzy score from David Holmes is a wonderful compliment to the wide variety of scenes and locations, and the tongue-in-cheek humor is expert enough to keep you smiling through the all too serious business chats. A perfect example is the use of a particular S-word to both begin and end the movie.Soderbergh is one of the few directors who refuses to get pigeon-holed into making a certain type of movie. Never short on style or visual flair, he touches many genres and here proves he can twist the action-thriller in a new, fun to watch direction. If you kick back and go for the ride, Haywire will show you a great time.a note of trivia: Gina Carano is the daughter of former Dallas Cowboy quarterback Glenn Carano
Greetings again from the darkness. The star of this film is Super-Cinematographer Roger Deakins. This guy is a true artist with a camera and thanks to the excruciatingly slow pace here, we get plenty of opportunities to admire his craft. I am not just talking about the stunning snow scenery, but pay attention to the way Mr. Deakins photographs faces and the movements of the actors. It is truly a technical marvel of film-making.As you might guess, when the best thing about the film is the cinematography, it may not deliver the goods from a dramatic standpoint. I won't call this a snoozer, but if the pace were any slower it could have been just as effective as an old fashioned slide show.The film is really not about Jesse James and it really isn't too much about the coward Bob Ford. It really is about one desperate attempt to get famous ... to reach celebrity status. As the old saying goes, be careful what you ask for. Brad Pitt does a nice job capturing the existential side of the famed bank robber, but the film really belongs to Casey Affleck, in his first true lead role. I must admit, Affleck's mumbling and fake naivety wear thin very quickly. Sure he may be the best actor among the Affleck brothers, but is that really saying much? New Zealand director Andrew Dominik put together quite a supporting cast but really doesn't now what to do with it. There is so much wasted talent ... in particular, Sam Shepard and Zooey Deschanel, whose roles appeared to be thrown in at the last minute. Faring better are James Carville in a surprisingly effective role as the Governor, Paul Schneider as a creepy Wood, Nick Cave in a weird scene as a saloon singer, Sam Rockwell as Ford's older brother and the always effective and interesting Michael Parks, who is to "GD" what Samuel L. Jackson is to "MF".As a work of art, this is definitely one to see. From a dramatic standpoint, it is quite a let down.
Greetings again from the darkness. I often give extra credit to filmmakers for trying something challenging and different, even if the final product might fall a bit short. What I refuse to do is ignore the opposite ... a lazy attempt by a filmmaker who thinks they can skate by just because they picked a interesting topic. Director David Frankel (The Devil Wears Prada) takes the screenplay from Vanessa Taylor and then seems to sit back and bank on the strength of three lead actors to make a statement.Meryl Streep is the greatest living actress and maybe the greatest of all-time. She can turn any character into a subject of interest and doesn't disappoint here as Kay, the disenchanted wife of Arnold, played by Tommy Lee Jones (himself an excellent actor). In an effort to save a marriage gone stale after 31 years, she books a week of intensive marriage counseling with Dr. Feld (Steve Carell). Arnold reluctantly agrees to attend despite his belief that all is "fine".What follows is not the laugh-fest promised by the trailer, but rather as semi-serious look at marriage for the over 60 generation. I say semi-serious because intense topics are raised, but the film continually makes U-Turns at each fork in the road so as to avoid coming up with any real solution or digging deeper into cause/effect. Instead, some prime opportunity is wasted for this to be either a riotous look at marital frustration or an intriguing dive into what makes men and women of this generation unable to communicate.My contention is that just because this is a movie about marriage for 60-somethings, we shouldn't give the filmmakers a gold star for effort. The great John Wooden said, "Never mistake effort for results". There are some humorous moments ... some laugh out-loud moments, but not very many. There are some serious topics broached, but only by skimming the surface. As a movie lover, I demand more.The three leads are excellent. Mr. Carell does a nice job of underplaying the counselor role. He is smart enough to know that this film belongs to Streep and Jones. There is also minor support work from Ben Rappaport, Marin Ireland, Mimi Rogers and Elisabeth Shue. All of these characters seem tossed in for variety only. None really drive the story. The first 20 minutes of the film has three songs that just overpower the scenes. It's as if the director recognized the material was lightweight.I have labeled this genre Gray Cinema, and have stated that I expect we are on the front end of this trend as baby boomers demand more movies about themselves. The trend is commendable, but again I say, we should demand more and better.
Greetings again from the darkness. Stellar film from rising star, Israeli filmmaker Eran Kolirin. This film offers the beautifully delivered message that regardless of our culture, we all want to be connected to another person. Other than the language we speak, we really aren't so dissimilar.The Egyptian Police Orchestra is stranded on their way to play at the opening of an Arab Culture Center. The language barrier causes them to be stuck in a one-horse town with a similar type name. What follows is a touching story and terrific film-making. So much is communicated with so few words.There are three of four amazing scenes. My favorite is probably the funniest in the film. At the roller rink, one of the band members assists an awkward local with the proper technique in consoling a girl whose feelings he has hurt. It is funny and touching and moving and insightful all at once. The band leader's scenes with Dena, the beautiful and lonely restaurateur who takes the band in for the evening, are so emotional and sincere that I kept wanting to scream at them both! Just great stuff.I look forward to more from Eran Kolirin and it is very sad that this film was disqualified in the Foreign Language category due to the determination that too much English was used. Still, it doesn't change the fact that this is a terrific movie and story.
Greetings again from the darkness. From writer/director Jane Campion (The Piano), this is beautiful and touching story of unrequited love between the incredible poet John Keats and designer/seamstress Fanny Brawne.Ben Whishaw (Perfume) does a fine job capturing the frailty, sensitivity and many moods of the poet, and give us a peek at his thoughts regarding his own death. The only real glimpses we get into Keats' writing process are his scenes with Paul Schneider (as Mr. Brown). Schneider's character is overly protective of Keats the genius and Keats the man ... almost to the point of obsession.The real Bright Star of the film is Abbie Cornish (Elizabeth, A Good Year) as Fanny Brawne. She brings much depth to character and her emotions caused me to well up a couple of times (not a common experience for me). Star-crossed lovers seems so cliché, but certainly fits this story.While I would have preferred more insight into the Keats genius, this is really a story of love and emotions. So we make do with the voice overs and bits of Keats poetry that Campion tosses in.
