I was just walking down the isle at Blockbuster Video and noticed "Hoodwinked!", I really got into the animation videos this year, so I figured to give it a shot and I have to say that I'm glad that I did. Hoodwinked is a really good and funny movie, it took the most simple childhood story of "Little Red Riding Hood" and turned it into a great animated twist on the story. Who ever knew that the wolf or granny had a different side of the story, right? Well, that's what Hoodwinked is about. Little Red Riding Hood is on her way to see her Granny, who also happens to be famous for her sweets, and of course, she gets a big surprise by the Big Bad Wolf. But instead of the way the typical story goes, the police arrest all of these suspects wondering what happened, and we go through each of their stories, and they all just happen to meet. But there's a big twist when we find out that there is more than meets the eye to this typical story.Even though this wasn't the best animated film I have seen, I loved Hoodwinked! It had a great script and was a great family film that anyone could enjoy. My only thing was that this movie had quite the cast, but you really couldn't tell who's voice was who's, which makes me think that they used computers, which isn't impressive. But I would always highly recommend Hoodwinked, especially just to see that cute little Twitchy.7/10
I didn't know what the heck Penelope was, I only saw the trailer once and it looked very strange, I only saw the poster more than a few times and it again, didn't really catch my interest. But my friends and I decided to check it out and I'm actually glad that I saw it. As silly story that it is and a bit predictable, it's a good movie. Most romantic comedies tick me off because they are so predictable and the it's the same formula each time, Penelope is close to the same formula, but instead adds a fairy tale twist. It has the same moral of the story as most films of having to accept yourself, but Christina Ricci made it more charming and lovable. The cast was perfect and all did a great job, the looked like they had such a good time bringing this story to life.Penelope seems like the girl that should be living the high life, a wealthy family, part of royalty, but her life isn't perfect. Due to a shallow mistake her ancestor made, a witch cursed a face of a pig onto the next born daughter, that happens to be Penelope who apparently has to marry a man of royal blood to break the curse. But since she's not the prettiest face on the planet, every man runs from her, but Max, a spy sent by a photographer, Max learns that Penelope is a beautiful soul. Penelope runs away though to find her freedom and instead finds herself and how wonderful she truly is.Penelope is a very cute film, I was very impressed with the story, there were some things I was a little disappointed in, like how they just abandoned some characters for no reason. But I think it's hard to fit it in a short film, still I think it could have been edited better. But Christina Ricci was a great choice for Penelope, even though she's still oddly enough not the ugliest woman I've ever seen with the nose, she did a good job and held her own well. Reese Witherspoon, small role, but she was so charming. I would recommend Penelope, it's a cute film and was a lot of fun to watch.7/10
I was looking forward to seeing Do the Right Thing, Spike Lee was awarded for the film last year and it was in my book of "1001 movies you must see before you die", so when I saw this film at the video store I naturally picked it up and I just watched it tonite. I can see where Spike Lee was going with the film and how angry everyone can get with the heat and just natural accusations due to stereotypes and misunderstandings, but it didn't seem like a strong enough movie that really effected me like Spike's other film 25th Hour.It's one of the hottest days of the summer and we have a little Italian restaurant in the middle of a black neighborhood. Unfortunately, everyone is starting to gain up on each other due to the nasty heat and making horrible accusations and calling each other horrible names. All the heat and anger just builds up to a very heated and deadly conclusion that everyone could learn from.Do the Right Thing could've been a stronger movie, I just felt like it wasn't strong enough, I know that I am going to get bashed and insulted for saying that, but I know when a film effects me and why it does and unfortunately Do the Right thing just didn't have me shaking, crying, or made me think after the movie was done. I have just seen Spike's better work, I know this was one of his first films, for that, I admit he did a good job, but it still felt too amateur for my likings.6/10
I had my doubts, Night of the Living Dead the original is one of my favorite movies of all time, it's perfect. It was made on one of the lowest budgets possible, but it worked on so many levels, politics, claustrophobia, fear, racism, everything blended so well and was so perfect for the time. But seeing how George still had his hand in the remake, I figured to give this movie a chance. After all, Dawn of the Dead the remake was a success and I really enjoyed it, well, like I said in the title, standing on it's own for a directorial debut, it wasn't bad at all, but from a remake standard, it was a little too much.Basically, Barbara and her brother Johnny are going to visit their mother's grave, but embark on some zombies, Johnny is killed in the process of trying to save Barbara, but she barley makes it to an abandoned house where later on Ben comes and they together try to survive the plague that is going on outside with these flesh eaters. Later on they are joined by people who have been hiding in the basement and together they must try to survive this horrific night.Over all, I would recommend it for fun, don't compare it to the original or I guarantee you'll probably not have a good time. This was a remake that wasn't needed, but it wasn't a BAD idea to introduce it to a newer generation. Tony Todd did a fantastic job and was such a great Ben, along with then new comer Bill Mosely who we now know from House of 1000 Courpses and Devil's Rejects as Odes. So, just give this movie a shot, it's one of those films you have to see for yourself.6/10
With the economy the way it is I have figured out the exact way to make a few million dollars, it's really easy: I'll make a romantic comedy! All I need to do is have an annoying hard working bitter female who has given up on love, somehow finds it with bland purse accessory man, their romance falls in some way for 10 minutes but they find that they really do love each other and all ends well. Bam, I have at least 5 million dollars, only problem being that this way is too easy and other directors have beaten me to it. In this case we have When In Rome, a wonderfully pretentious and predictable romantic comedy that tries way too hard in the slap stick comedy department. Kristen Bell is still somewhat hot off the more humorous romantic comedy Forgetting Sarah Marshall and Hollywood is testing to see if she's leading lady material. Let me tell you something, if this is the first choice she's going to make to prove that she can bank in a big hit movie, she failed big time. The movie bombed hoping that this will lead to Hollywood giving up on the stupid predictable plots, non existent chemistry between two young hot actors who are getting by on looks and the most bland jokes in the world, When In Rome was just a bad movie.A successful and single art curator Beth is at a point in her life where love seems like a luxury she just can't afford. Years of waiting for the perfect romance has made Beth bitter. One day, she flies to Rome to attend her younger sister Joan's impulsive wedding. She meets Nick, who rescues her in a couple of difficult situations but is just as much of a clumsy clod as she is. They hit it off well and reach a point where both parties take an interest in the other. Just as Beth convinces herself to believe in love again, she sees Nick kissing another woman, who turns out to be the groom's 'crazy cousin'. Slightly drunk, she picks up coins from the "fountain of love". She later learns from Joan that legend says, if you take coins from the fountain, the owner of the coin will fall in love with you. She has to return the coins to the fountain to break the spell.There are times where I really do want to be like my other girlfriends and think that these movies are so cute and sweet, it's a curse seeing so many movies at times because I guess I'm the stick in the mud when it comes to girl night and a movie. But I guess it's also a blessing because I'd rather see these movies for what they really are and honestly I hate to say it, but these romantic comedies are sick ways for Hollywood to make more money without putting any effort in. Kristen Bell doesn't work well as a lead actress and had no chemistry with the other actors. Her character wasn't likable at all and was so predictable, why do all these female characters have to be bitter? Come on, Kristen Bell having a hard time finding love? Not completely unrealistic but highly unbelievable still. She has a hard tough boss, the cute likable sister who was lucky enough to find love and the typical friends who have to encourage her to find love still. I know what you are thinking as you are reading my comment "Why if you hate romantic comedies so much, do you continue to watch them?", my answer is that I always have a little hope for film when I start watching it, but when I see it going in the same direction as the last time, when it's just another copy and paste story, that's when I give up. I just feel the need to warn the world of this sick plot to get innocent people's money, but I guess it's their choice and no I will not recommend this film if my life depended on it and it's forced uncomfortable humor.1/10
I remember a year ago seeing the trailer for Beowulf and to be honest, nothing seemed too special about it. I know the poem, lucky enough I never had to read it, my friends said it was boring, so never found interest enough to read it on my own. I saw Beowulf on DVD for rental and figured just to go ahead and check it out. So I watched the film this morning and honestly, I wasn't that impressed with it. The story itself was an interesting one and I think I might read the poem after all, although from what I'm reading from here on IMDb, the movie wasn't all that accurate to the poem itself. But my main problem with the film is the CGI, I know this is a fantasy type of film, but Lord of the Rings was able to pull off a fantasy type of feel with a live action film. The bad looking effects just take over what could've been a great epic film.Hrothgar is the king of his Denmark land, but there are demons that are attacking him and his people. He and his soldiers are not able to defeat the demon, so they send for a hero. Thankfully a hero is on his way, he is called Beowulf, I like to call him Beobuff. He has come to save the day with his men and they do succeed in killing one of the demons. Unfortunately, the demon's mom does not take this so lightly and offers Beowulf a deal in exchange for a new son. But things take a dark turn when Hrothgar knows a little more about the woman/demon who wanted a son.Beowulf is an alright movie, seriously though, would I recommend it? Not really, the story was wonderful and magical, but the way the film was made and the cast was not what I would've done if I created the movie. I think it would have been a better idea to use unknown actors, because we have these incredible actors who are aways a pleasure to watch on the screen, but seriously, on Beowulf, this was not their film. The CGI is way too over the top and looks very fake, I didn't enjoy the "eye candy". If you read the poem, go ahead and check the film out, if you haven't, you might not get into it.5/10
After this painful movie, I drank, I did illegal substances, I even beat myself with a shovel, and still I was in pain from watching this horrible movie! The Haunting of Molly Hartley or as I'm going to call it from this point on "pretty white kids with satanic problems", where do I eve begin on how awful this film was? OK, let's start with the actors, horrible horrible actors that only got their roles because they were just too beautiful to pass up on. The editing/scare tactics: let's make loud noise constantly, that'll make the audience jump. The script: let's make up a non-sense story about a teenage girl who has powers from Satan and we'll put her in high school with other pretty people and while she has to go through the hardships of being a teenager. Even though the story in no way makes sense, we have a Zac Efron look a like, so we're going to get a huge female teen audience and they'll love this film. Oh, boy, I'm rambling, OK, let's just say this, if you were, you'd see all the bruises on my head from banging it on the wall after watching this movie that I'll never know how it got green lighted.Molly Hartley is the new girl at school who is very subtle about her strange side, she has headaches that lead to disillusions about her mother who tried to kill her a few years ago, she automatically stays away from people and is getting hit on by the most pretty rich boy in the whole school, but she is absolutely refusing to do anything until her father takes her to the hospital and they find a brain tumor, so it seems like everything will be all good after they remove it, but things are obviously not getting better when her mother escapes the insane asylum to kill Molly before she hits her 18th birthday to gain full powers of the devil... yeah, wow.Oh, boy, I wish there was a rating lower than 1, because honestly this film is one of the worst I've ever seen in my life. It's just so odd to me that there are some films that people absolutely refuse to give a fair chance, yet this movie that has no right to be called a horror movie has a 3.4 rating? Come on, this belongs in the bottom 100 here on IMDb, I'm going to be a good citizen, please, stay away from this movie, save yourself the pain I had to endure. I had to take my cousin to see this, now I feel that I can never let her pick a film again, because for my health's sake, I just can never see a movie like this again, I'll go insane. Just trust me, this is a very very bad film, film? Why did I say that? This is trash, just trust me, the only thing horrific about this is that I wasted 90 minutes of my life that I will never get back... I could have watched paint dry, that has more meaning than this stupid movie ever will.1/10
I got a three pack on a DVD at Wal Mart for ten dollars a few weeks ago and Honey was on the cover, never saw the movie, wasn't really interested when it came out, but I figured why not see it for ten dollars? Sounds silly, but who knows? Sometimes you find little treasures here and there that are cheap, plus, I remember that this was the film that really introduced Jessica Alba to the movie business industry. Of course, she's really huge now, and judging from this film, Honey that I watched last night, I have to say other than her looks, I am surprised she made it this far. I don't mean to sound horrible on the film or anything, but this just seemed like a giant rap video for me and the plot was way too average and predictable with some cheesy street slang.Honey Daniels has three jobs: a bartender, a sales girl at a CD store, and also a dance teacher at her mom's little business to keep kids off the street. But more than anything, Honey wants to be a music video back up dancer. Her wishes come true when a director, Michael, welcomes her to the dance floor and makes her a choreographer. All her dreams are coming true, until she realizes that she forgets the more important things in life that mean so much to her. She eventually wants to open a club of her own to help out the neighborhood kids.Honey has the typical street slang which I didn't find attractive, you just can't take it seriously. Alba, she's such a pretty girl, BUT, I'm very sorry, the girl cannot act, I didn't feel an ounce of sympathy or compassion for her character, she played off as this naive little thing, when she could have played it more smart and strong. Not to mention what was the whole Missy Elliot dialog? "What is this? This? This? Ugh? Ugh?"... it was supposed to be funny, but Missy comes off flat. Mekhi should have had more screen time, the guy is the only one with talent in the film. The dance moves are good, but I just wish they wouldn't have made this into a giant rap video.2/10
Well, this morning I was looking for a movie to watch before I went to work and my mom recommended Along Came A Spider, we are both Morgan Freeman fans, so I figured to give the movie a shot, despite typical endings when you see a Morgan Freeman thriller. So the movie started off really strong, but ended up flaking as usual to a "big surprise" ending that well... wasn't that all surprising. I don't know, I guess I'm just too smart for my own good because I could just see everything that was going to happen, while it was an alright thriller, I wasn't that impressed with the way things peeled out.Well, Morgan Freeman who plays Alex, has just lost his partner in a under cover crime gone fatally wrong and he has retired, until that is, he gets a phone call from a mysterious man who has just kidnapped the senator's daughter and for some odd reason, doesn't want a ransom for the girl. The secret service lady, Jezzie, who was supposed to be guarding the little girl failed to protect her and well, things of course are not always as they seem.I just don't want to give any spoilers, for those who haven't seen those movies, you know the typical thrillers that are supposed to have a big surprise ending? But any who, it's an average thriller at least in my opinion, the acting wasn't bad or anything, I guess just for a while, you see one thriller, you've seen them all, right? But Morgan does still rock, I will never deny his credit, therefore I will be kind over all and say for the rating.5/10
So Field of Dreams, pretty famous film over all, created one of the major quotes of movie history "If you build it, he will come". My boyfriend was shocked that out of all the movies I had seen, I've never watched Field of Dreams. So he gave me the movie and said that if I'm a true baseball fan that I would watch it, being a (disappointed) fan of the Chicago Cubs, I have to say that he was right. This is a movie that is about the love of baseball. What I enjoyed most about this story is that it felt like it was timeless, this is a movie that really doesn't age, I thought it was made in the 1990's, surprising to find out that it was made in the 1980's. The characters are so wonderful and charming, how could you not adore them and wish for Kevin Costner to succeed in making this baseball field? The love that was put into this movie shows and was a pleasure to watch.Ray Kinsella is a novice farmer who lives in rural Iowa with his wife, Annie, and their young daughter Karin. While walking through his cornfield, Ray hears a voice whisper, "If you build it, he will come", and sees a vision of a baseball field. Believing he is somehow being asked to build it, and fearing he is in danger of "turning into" his father, Ray strongly wishes to do so. Although skeptical, Annie is supportive. Watched by incredulous neighbors, Ray plows under his corn and builds the field. A year passes without incident. Ray and Annie are eventually forced to consider replacing the field with corn to stay financially solvent. At this point Karin spots a man on the ball field who Ray discovers is Shoeless Joe Jackson, a baseball player idolized by his father. Joe is thrilled to be able to play baseball again and asks to bring others with him to the field. He later returns with the seven other players banned in the 1919 Black Sox scandal, emerging from the corn by the outfield. With the help of others Ray sticks to his faith and believes that this field means something and do whatever he can to find out what this will do for his life.I'm really glad I gave Field of Dreams a chance, it's a delightful film. We have some powerhouse performances from Costner, Liotta and Jones. I'm surprised I didn't see this movie earlier, but better late than never. I think also visually this is one of the most memorable films in is simplicity, Ray Liotta and his teammates coming out of the field and going back in was so memorizing. Also just what it represented in possibly being Heaven or to be forever young and happy, it was wonderful. If you get the chance to see Field of Dreams, I highly recommend it. It's a lovely family film with terrific actors and a timeless story about the love of baseball and making your dreams come true. Not to mention the ultimate tear jerker ending, you'll have to trust me on this one.8/10
You know, right when I think that I'm a fan of the Dead trilogy from Romero, I had the silliest notion the other day, I've never seen Day of the Dead. Romero revolutionized zombies and made them the monsters that they are today and the thing that makes him so excellent and these movies classic is that he knows how to write characters so well and plays into our survival instincts. However it's weird, I never heard many things about Day of the Dead, so I thought it wasn't that good maybe. But I should know better to look on the internet with users and reviewers who describe the film and show how famous it is in our treasure box world of cult classics. I bought Day of the Dead without seeing it and actually found myself loving this movie and seeing a possible inspiration for 28 Days Later. It's always interesting to see who did it first and George was way ahead of his time when he wrote and made this great film.Sara and three survivors, John, Bill and Miguel, land a chopper in deserted streets of Fort Myers to search for other possible survivors. They try to call people with a megaphone, but only attract hordes of undead. The group returns to their base, an underground army missile bunker near the Everglades. The group is revealed to be part of a military-supported scientific team assigned by the remnants of the government to study the zombie phenomenon in the hopes of finding a way of stopping or reversing the zombification process. But of course there are certain soldiers who are taking their jobs a little above and beyond their line of duty.Day of the Dead was a great conclusion before Romero continued his story with Land of the Dead, which is another movie I highly recommend. Like I said, Romero knew how to write his characters very well and even adds that cheesy moment in his films where they're unbelievable but such an awesome scene that you just fall in love with it, like where the zombies attack one of the soldiers and he's being ripped apart as he's still screaming "Choke on it!!!". The whole setting of this movie was extremely creepy, I can't imagine if this was real how scary it would be to see people who are acting like total savages and instead of trying to help the situation with the zombie attack are acting like total power freaks. The sad part is, this would happen in real life if this situation was true and again makes for great writing.Another thing that I loved was I saw an inspiration for a movie I saw a few years ago called Fido where we got to see what a zombie who was made to fit back into society and we see in Day of the Dead a zombie that actually starts to remember his life before he died named Bubba. I loved that the scientist was like a father to him and that he was so quick to avenge whatever wrong was done. If this movie was made today, I would say Bubba deserves his own movie. The dead series are classics and way ahead of their time, not to mention that they molded the zombie genre. Day of the Dead is a great movie not to be missed and I think I may throw a Zombie party one night for a marathon, nothing says friendship than flesh eaters.8/10
On the internet last year, it seemed like the whole internet was buzzed with a movie called Let Me In. On a certain critic's site he was naming his favorite vampire movies and Let Me In was his number one. I had my guard up, sadly since the Twilight franchise became popular, vampires have become nothing more than a joke and it seems like the vampires are just a sick trend right now. When I read that it was about two 12 year olds, I was even more put back, I wasn't so sure how this would work, but with the overwhelming good reviews, I decided to take a risk and buy without watching and I just have to thank all the users who gave this film nothing but positive reviews because this is one of the strongest horror films I have seen in years. Being a vampire has been so glamorized, Let Me In shows that it can be a curse and the pain of adolescence can make it even worse. With great actors, a clever director who also made a brilliant script for it as well and wonderful special effects, Let Me In keeps you glued to your seat and takes you on a ride that you will never forget.Owen is an unhappy and lonely 12 year old boy, who is neglected by his divorcing parents, and continually harassed at school by cruel bullies. One evening, when Owen is alone in the courtyard of his apartment complex he is approached by a 12 year old girl who has moved into the apartment next door. Her name is Abby, she tells Owen that they cannot be friends, but regardless Abby and Owen grow closer, seeing each other at night in the courtyard, and start communicating by Morse code through the walls of their apartments. Meanwhile, Abby's father, occasionally goes out to kill local residents in order to acquire blood for the vampiric Abby. Abby continues developing her relationship with Owen, and Thomas asks her to stop seeing Owen, but she does not. Abby, saddened by the later death of her father, moves on to Owen for psychological comfort. Meanwhile, the detective gradually learns of the protector's connection to Abby. After Owen finds out about who Abby really is, after all she has done for him he vows to protect her.Chloe Grace Moretz is becoming such an incredible actress, such presence for a young age on the screen, she's like an old soul who you think would be in the business for a long time with her gift, who knows? Maybe she is a vampire for real, just a thought. Also Kodi Smit-McPhee couldn't have been a more perfect choice for Owen, his eyes were so strong in the sensitivity and loneliness that was needed for the part. He and Chloe had such amazing chemistry and their love story was beautiful and extremely tragic. I like the whole theme around Romeo and Juliet, seeing as Owen's mother being very religious compared to Abby who would be considered a demonic creature and how could they be together? At 12 years old, your going out of your "boys/girls are icky" phase and your hormones are insane, so it could have been turned into a love story that you really wouldn't have taken seriously. But since the characters seem like old souls, they click very well and really balance each other out.Let Me In is one of my new favorite movies, I watched it a couple of days ago and still cannot get it out of my head. I've been bragging about it to my friends and can't wait to show them. I highly recommend this movie to anyone, it's absolutely beautiful, elegant and one of the best horror movies and I'm sure will be a classic for years to come. Thanks again for the wonderful reviews, let's keep this movie going and make sure that more movies like this get made for the vampire genre, before we know it, vampires just might be scary again.10/10
I know this has been brought up before, but it was such a question with me on how they picked Russell Crowe and Christian Bale to be American cowboys? But then I saw 3:10 to Yuma this afternoon, to be honest, I don't know who could have done a better job! Christian and Russell clicked so well and brought together an awesome western film, probably the best since Unforgiven. James Mangold captured the perfect feeling of a classic western film and brought together this great cast. This is one of the first films of the summer that I'm giving a perfect 10 rating, I couldn't find one complaint about 3:10 to Yuma. The casting, the picture, the whole surrounding of the film was just incredible. To be honest, I wouldn't be surprised if this is going to be nominated for a couple Oscars.Ben Wade is an outlaw killer/thief who is on the run with his gang, but he is captured one day. The problem is that he has a reputation for being the fastest gun swinger in the West, so the policemen ask a man, Dan Evans if he brings him to the 3:10 prisoner train to Yuma for two hundred dollars. One problem, Ben's gang wants him back and will chase him, his son, Doc, and Butterfield throughout the West. Ben is just charming his way through the journey, Dan's son, William, is convinced that maybe Ben isn't all that bad, but Dan knows better and is willing to do anything to get Ben onto that train.3:10 to Yuma is one of the year's best, to be honest, I'm thinking about the films this past year, and I would probably rank this as the number one movie. I was never really into western movies, except for the good, the bad, and the ugly, and unforgiven, but 3:10 to Yuma is a guaranteed classic. I am very much recommending this film to anyone, even those who are not into the Western films, because this is just all together a terrific film. The script, the acting, the picture, the look, 3:10 to Yuma is a fantastic film that should not be missed.10/10
You know I never understood why when it's Halloween time, mummy's are a part of the decoration, sure it's part of death, but mummy's never really scared me. Now I loved the 1999 remake of The Mummy with Brandon Fraiser, but when this movie came up in the Universal Picture monster movies, I wasn't so sure I was going to enjoy this movie. But Boris Karloff was the star, so I decided to give the movie a fair chance and it did pay off. Boris really made this film into a very creepy story. While the movie doesn't stand out as well as other monster movies, but The Mummy still gives me chills. I'm a wuss, lol, but I love these old black and white movies and if you watch them in the dark, it adds to the creep factor. If you just think about the story and really how horrifying it is, I'm sure you'll have the same effect too.An Ancient Egyptian priest called Imhotep is revived when an archaeological expedition finds Imhotep's mummy and one of the archaeologists accidentally reads an ancient life-giving spell. Imhotep escapes from the archaeologists, taking the Scroll of Thoth, and prowls Cairo seeking the reincarnation of the soul of his ancient lover, Princess Ankh-es-en-amon. Imhotep finds two archaeologists, claims that his name is Ardath Bey, a modern Egyptian, and shows them where to dig to find Ankh-es-en-amon's tomb. The archaeologists find the tomb and give the mummy and the treasures to the Cairo Museum. The archaeologists thank Imhotep for giving them the information of where to find the tomb. Imhotep was once mummified alive for attempting to resurrect her, and, upon finding a woman bearing a striking resemblance to the Princess, attempts to mummify her and make her his bride.I really did enjoy this movie, I think it was the cast that made it work. Zita Johann as Helen was so beautiful and was a perfect choice, she had the beauty, smarts and strength to pull in not just a typical damsel in distress. Her performance at the end when she's praying for her God to give her strength was so powerful and very moving. Boris, what can I say about this guy? He is the man and the ultimate horror actor, everything about him in this movie gave the perfect vibe for chills. His presence on screen is so powerful and magnetic, he was a perfect choice to carry this film with his lovely princess, Helen. I highly recommend this movie if you're looking for a classic horror film to watch. The Mummy has now given me the answer on why mummies can be so creepy and are a great Halloween treat.8/10
Can you believe it? Disney has reached it's 50th animated film and what way to celebrate a wonderful magical company but with another princess story. We've had the pleasure of adding Snow White, Cinderella, Sleeping Beauty, The Little Mermaid and Beauty and the Beast to the magnificent list of best animated movies of all time despite all virtually having the same story. The reason being is because even though they were all the same story, they all had something different to offer with animation, songs, characters and along with other Disney classics like The Lion King, Aladdin or The Jungle Book(you know there's more titles of course) we've always opened our hearts to these classic stories. Disney takes on an old fairytale of Rapunzel and what way to celebrate but with CGI animation, again. Tangled is a very good film but it's not the instant classic that Disney needed. Don't get me wrong, I loved the movie, it's got great animation, lots of humor and very lovable characters.One night, Gothel, an evil selfish old lady kidnaps Princess Rapunzel who has magic gold hair that can keep Gothel looking young and living forever; she isolates the princess in a tower as her own daughter. Eighteen years later, Rapunzel tells Gothel that she wishes to see the floating lights that appear on her birthday every year, but Gothel rejects her by telling Rapunzel that the world is a dangerous place. Meanwhile, the thief Flynn Rider and his twin thugs heist the tiara of the missing princess from the castle. As they flee, Flynn abandons the twins, allowing the pursuing castle guards to capture them. Flynn happens upon Rapunzel's tower to hide in, only to be held captive by Rapunzel and her pet chameleon, Pascal. Rapunzel bargains with Flynn that if he escorts her to the lights and back, she will return the tiara; Flynn agrees. But as they go into the city, Rapunzel starts to feel something familiar as everyone talks about the lost princess that was stolen years ago.I guess for Disney's 50th animated picture I wanted a little more, look at me, I'm talking like the Disney princess almost singing how I want more. The songs were not too catchy, except for the dream song at the bar, that was very humorous and a good time to watch. Another thing I liked about the film is that it seems like a lot of animated films are relying too much on pop culture for humor and can be too trendy at times, I like that we went back to the old fairy tale. However, couldn't we have done hand drawn animation? I miss that a lot, it has this certain charm and felt like the animators took the time and effort, I know that CGI animation is cheaper and faster, so it can make an audience member feel a little cheated. I also know that 3D is big, but again why always go with trendy? This isn't what Walt Disney intended with his company I'm sure. But still would I recommend Tangled? Absolutely, and I can't wait for the DVD to add to my Disney collection, this was a terrific film for the whole family to enjoy. After all, it has a horse that makes Dirty Harry look like Barney and I feel bad for that chameleon who I guess should have stolen the show but lets face it, that horse deserves a spin off sequel now. Disney, let's get Max his own movie! Well, I hope that Disney takes my tip about the hand drawn animation, let's go back to the good old days.8/10
You know what? Standing alone as a comedy, it had some really good moments, but as an action movie, this was beyond unbelievable and incredibly clichéd. I'm going to start with the good parts, see, Eddie Murphy is still great as Axel and is always very funny. He has some really great moments, but for me in this sequel, it was Judge Reinhold that stole the show as Billy. He was just such a lovable goof, which was semi-sad since he was a cop in the film, but I got past that part pretty much since he has been a goof from the first Beverly Hills Cop movie.Axel is back in business, in Detroit he gets into a once in a lifetime for a cop normally, type of shoot out with dirty business men, one who is an extremely super duper bad dude, who just won't stop killing people or stealing, why do you ask? Because he's a super duper bad dude! Well, he leads Axel to Wonderworld in Beverly Hills, California, where he finds out that that's where they do business. He gets his favorite buddy Billy back in the game and together they try to find a way to reveal the super duper bad dude's true identity to the crowd.Now the complaints, there are a huge list of them: first off, for security guards, most of them had pretty crappy shooting techniques and couldn't hit a barn. Secondly, Axel saved these children from a ride in Wonderworld, with one arm?! Third, a shootout like they had in this film in reality is a one in a million chance for a real life, but somehow Axel just seems to keep getting them like their a dime in a dozen. And fourth, the super duper bad dude, did the badness a little too much, to the point where it was just obnoxious. But who am I to judge, you try it.4/10
When I first saw the trailer to Alvin and the Chipmunks, I was horrified, I'm 22 years old, I grew up with the chipmunks cartoon in the 80's and 90's. But after thinking about it, the chipmunks have been around since the 50's, my generation's chipmunks were a new introduction to us as well as this movie is to the kids of 2007. So my boyfriend and I checked out Alvin and the Chipmunks tonite just to see what it was about and you know what? I think it was cute for what it was. There are flaws here and there about the film, but it was meant for the kids, you have to admit. But the voices and characters are cute and the story works. It's a new story to the chipmunk's tale and adventures.Alvin, Simon, and Theodore, three singing, talking, and dancing chipmunks have just got their home(a tree, naturally) torn down and they are taken into the city. They jump into a basket being carried by Dave, a failing song writer, and they go home with him. He first shoves them off, but after hearing their singing, he comes up with the idea to write songs for them and see where it goes. They are a success and everything seems to be going very well for them. But until the music business takes advantage of them and tears their family apart, they realize that Dave is really who they need.Alvin and the Chipmunks of course is not the movie of the year, but for a kid's movie, it was very cute. Judging from my generation of Alvin, Simon, and Theodore, yeah, it was strange seeing them through what this generation considers cute and fun was a bit silly to me. I wished that they would've focused more on the building of the relationship between Dave and the boys, but I guess that might leave room for a sequel. Now, if you're looking for Citizen Kane, don't see this movie, if you're just looking for innocent fun and a cute family flick, I think you might enjoy Alvin and the Chipmunks.5/10
A couple of months ago, I was exploring IMDb to see what was going to be released over the summer. I noticed the title "Vampires Suck" with Jason Friedberg and Aaron Seltzer's names were attached to the project. Already I noticed all the message boards going insane with the screams and trying to boycott this film. I can't help but laugh at that alone, the way people react to these guys is very funny as if they were Osama Bin Ladden. But I can understand why, these guys have continually made horrible films. Even though I found Meet the Spartans kind of funny, their movies are very lazy and don't even try. I saw Disaster Movie being in an extremely good mood because I was with my friends and having a good day, so I think I was a little too gentle in my review of it. Because I watched it on Showtime the other day and said to myself "what the heck was I thinking when I rated the movie a 2? This is a bad movie". With the recent craze of vampires, wither being good(True Blood) or being bad(Twilight), a lot of people are just sick of it. I think Vampires Suck is kind of what we needed to just laugh at the trend of Stephanie Meyer wanna-be teenagers who made it into a sick puppy love fairy tale. With my expectations to be EXTREMELY low, I saw the movie at a premiere that my friend took me to and watched it to find that, oh, Holy Lord, Aaron and Jason actually put EFFORT into this movie! That's it, Hell has frozen over and Satan is giving free slay rides.Spoofing vampire movies and shows, Vampires Sucks mainly revolves around Twilight. Becca, a new girl in the town of Sporks goes to school to find that her awkward, frigid and depressing demeanor attractive to the hottest vampire in the school, Edward Sullen. They fall in love only to discover that their tragic romance might lead to Becca being killed. Edward breaks up with her leaving her in the dangers of the town of Sporks to other vampires who look a lot like the "Black Eyed Peas" and vow to kill her. Her only friend, Jacob, who is obviously becoming a werewolf is there to protect her and constantly pursue her. But when Edward thinks that she's dead, he feels he can no longer go on as well so he tries to kill himself. But Becca finds out and must stop Edward before it's too late for him to come back into the star crossed romance.Aaron and Jason have obviously learned a lot. Not throwing pop culture things at us literally every 5 seconds and the constant gross jokes. Now I'm not saying this film is gold, they still have a lot to learn. But the great thing is, they actually held the steering wheel a little more steady this time with the plot. Mainly revolving around Twilight and some of the jokes are actually funny. I loved the "Black Eyed Peas" joke and when Edward is riding the scooter the simulate his "speed" and the way he exits after he breaks up with Becca. Jenn Proske and Matt Lanter did a very good job as Becca and Edward. They had their mannerisms down and did a great job making fun of their constant "staring moments". Jason and Aaron still do need to work on some things though like the Alice in Wonderland joke was a little too out there and constantly hitting people isn't that funny. There are jokes that once again drag on a little too long. It's a movie that I'm glad I saw for free, because I would say this is the kind of movie you could just watch on TV or the computer, it's not a complete waste of time like Disaster Movie or Date Movie. Much better Aaron and Jason, you are learning.5/10
I have heard non stop things about this movie and how funny it is, not to mention how many people praised Jim Carrey's performance. While The Cable Guy has a couple moments that were pretty funny, I was so upset because I normally find Jim Carrey very hilarious, he was kind of annoying in this role. It just seemed like he took on a lisp and only had funny physical gags. I was really looking forward to this movie, maybe that is what happened, you know where a movie is built up so much and it's not what you expected? But I think we all seem to be having that problem with this movie seeing how it only has a 5.6 rating.Basically it's about Steven, a man who has just been kicked out of his house by his girlfriend and is about to purchase cable in his new apartment. When The Cable Guy shows up, he hooks Steve up with illegal cable and then they hang out afterwards just releasing stress. But in a twisted fatal attraction, The Cable Guy doesn't want to let Steven go and desperately wants to be his friend, no matter what it takes. When Steven just flat out refuses his friendship, The Cable guy turns out to be his worst enemy.The Cable Guy is a decent comedy with a couple laughs here and there, but in my opinion it was nothing special or to brag over. I'm not sure if I would recommend it, or at least if you are going to view it, ignore the comments you've heard about it and just judge for yourself. Like I said, it's like a twisted version of Fatal Attraction, it has it's fun moments, but it has it's alright moments as well.5/10
I have heard nothing but good reviews on Suspiria, even an ex of mine to this day just praises this film. This is considered one of the scariest movies of all time, it did come out of the 70's, not to sound silly, just the best horror movies came out of the 1970's, I think the reason why is because the directors had no boundaries, they pushed things to the edge. Suspiria is also praised as Dario Argento's best work, so I finally had the opportunity to see it this morning, I took it. Now, I do think that some of the praises I've read on the IMDb page are a little far fetched, it's more about the gore that shocked people; but I do believe this is a great horror film, the best horror film about witches. The way Suspiria was made is very unique and really stands out with the other horror films of the 70's and the story is a classic haunting tale with Argento's sick twist on it.A young American dancer travels to Europe to join a famous ballet school. As she arrives, the camera turns to another young woman, who appears to be fleeing from the school. She returns to her apartment where she is gruesomely murdered by a hideous creature. Meanwhile, the young American is trying to settle in at the ballet school, but hears strange noises and is troubled by bizarre occurrences. She eventually discovers that the school is merely a front for a much more sinister organization.Suspiria is a great film, I'm very glad that I had the opportunity to see it, I would recommend this to any lover of the horror genre. But I feel that the people who have rated it low haven't given it a fair chance, like the other horror films, they expect something more like the Saw or Hostel films, today's horror genre isn't exactly great, we have had a few gems here and there, but nothing has stood out like the classics. Suspiria's ending scared the heck out of me, Argento had no boundaries, no rules, this is the first big gore film. As cheesy as the blood looks, this film has a certain feel and is a great ghost story. I'm glad I had to the opportunity to watch Suspiria, it's a terrific film, take from it what you bring to it, that's what film loving is all about.9/10
Where the Wild Things Are is a favorite childhood classic of mine, I've loved the book forever, I think much of my generation did. So when a movie was coming out I have to admit that I was a little put back, because it honestly didn't look that good to me. But there were a ton of excellent reviews on IMDb but I just waited till the rental and I'm honestly glad that I did. Pretty much lived up to what I thought it would be, nothing special or spectacular. While the film captures what we imagined as children, that was what it's flaw was as well. See, I was hoping that a newer generation would be introduced to this magical story but I think it was more meant for the adults who grew up with the story vs. the new generation who may have not read the book yet. It was sort of dull and lifeless, I don't know maybe it's because I'm grown up now but I'm pretty sure it's the movie because I know I'm not the only one who felt like this. Though the movie is done right, I think that the setting is what put it off and made this into a somewhat dead movie.Max is a lonely eight-year-old boy with an active imagination whose parents are divorced, wearing a wolf costume and chasing his dog. His mother, Connie invites her boyfriend to dinner. Max becomes upset with his mother for not coming to the fort he made in his room. He wears his wolf costume, acts like an animal, and demands to be fed. When his mother gets upset, he throws a tantrum and bites her on the shoulder. She yells at him and he runs away. Max reaches an island. Still in his wolf costume, he stumbles upon a group of six large, monstrous creatures. They think that he's very tough and one of them so they declare him to be the king of the land. While on the island Max learns about who he truly is and the creatures start to question if he is one of them.I'm really not trying to put the movie down, it just didn't feel anything special to me. I honestly felt that this was just more intended for the adults that grew up with the story because it was a trip down nostalgia lane. The costumes seemed a bit off to me and the celebrity voices that were provided didn't seem necessary. Also Max was too much of a brat in the beginning, even though it's like that in the book, it seems a little to the extreme in the movie. Mainly because we don't know his motive for why he would be acting up so badly. The setting was also so dead, to the point where visually the film became a little boring to me, I wanted color and excitement, after all, this is a kid's imagination! However, I feel bad for all the complaining because it still did have the same magic of the story. It brought the little kid back into us and even if it wasn't intended for the kids, maybe that's what it was meant for, to bring us back to a more innocent time where our imagination was limitless and the world was in front of us as a toy and the future held so much.6/10
If you're going to mess up Greek mythology, I guess you might as well make it pretty. Immortals is a semi-related-sequel to the incredible film 300, which not only looked beautiful but had this incredible story of triumph and strength, overcoming powerful numbers with a sense of knowing who you are and the pride you have. Immortals was created by director Tarsem Singh who also directed The Cell, which was an alright story followed up by some great visuals, the same thing happens here. I think Tarsem is just known for making a beautiful movie with a weak story, he's more of a visualist rather than a story teller. I still couldn't wait to see Immortals and sadly was very disappointed, unfortunately this was just a weak story with some bizarre miscasts.King Hyperion has declared war on humanity. He searches for the Epirus Bow, a legendary weapon created by the war god Ares, which will allow him to free the rest of the Titans from Tartarus and take revenge on the Olympians who brought about their downfall. In accordance with ancient laws, the gods are unable to take a side in the war between Hyperion and humanity. It is left to Theseus, who was chosen by Zeus and accompanied by the priestess Phaedra and a thief named Stavros, to protect his homeland and save the gods.To begin with the positives, like I said the visuals really are incredible. Now the CGI is over the top, but sometimes I don't mind, we need the pretty occasionally. Plus like I said if you are going to mess up mythology at least we could make it beautiful to look at. When I go to a museum and look at the Greek statues, I am in awe and that's what I felt with some of the visuals in the film. The fight scenes were so well choreographed, a little ripped off from 300, but that's alright. They took the 3D to their advantage with the blood splatter and the stabbings and honestly, it was fun to watch. And if not for the script, the story was actually very good, it's something that just needed some work.The cast though: Henry Cavill as our hero, Theseus, I don't know if it was the actor or the way he was written but I couldn't really root for his character. He seemed to lack the charisma that made me believe that not only is this man a hero but that he's a God. He has this scene where he is giving the big speech to his army that is freaking out when they see the numbers they are about to face in war and he says something along the lines "I bleed like you bleed" and randomly they're just like "Yeah!", that's it? It didn't take much encouragement and the way that Henry delivered it was weak in my opinion. Freida Pinto, beautiful lady, decent actress, however was an unneeded character and had no chemistry with Henry. Stephen Dorff did an alright job as the sidekick who often lends a joke when needed but makes for a good fighter and has some good action scenes. Mickey Rourke really does try very hard to be the bad God like King Hyperion, but again the threat wasn't so much there. He mumbles so many lines and won't stop eating when on the screen, why not just give him a cat to stroke while talking about his plan? The ending fight scene between Hyperion and Theseus was so anti-climatic to me. The mighty legendary incredible God Zeus played by Luke Evans? Oh, my*slaps head and groans*, I don't think I need to say more, that was just wrong.I think that if the story besides some casting issues, maybe if the film was trimmed down a bit, the film would have worked a lot better. Despite being over the top, I like the Greek mythology as a soap opera of some sorts, that's what it was like while writing and telling these stories. The film has a lot of flaws, however, I would recommend seeing in the theater if anything, go see the matinée. The visuals are absolutely beautiful and the fight scenes are a lot of fun. But don't expect the story to be there, this movie is not a rental, even as a blu ray, I'd recommend just seeing it in the theater if you want to see some great special effects. But Tarsem does need to work on his stories, I know he has some major potential, 300 was pretty and had a great story to boot, if there's a sequel, you have one more chance to make this story into a classic that we can proudly display with Jason and the Argonauts.5/10
A couple of weeks ago I had the pleasure of seeing a great Adam Sandler performance in Funny People. I was telling my friends how my opinion might have started to change with Sandler and that he does have a lot of potential to be a great actor. Then my friend dragged me to see Grown Up's, Adam Sandler sent me back with this failure of a movie. My God, my head hurts from this movie, it's like Adam Sandler just sent his friends over to his vacation home and said "Hey! See those camera's? Let's act like idiots for 2 hours and make millions of dollars by releasing the footage as a movie!", heck, for a few million dollars I would just film how my friends and I act if I was guaranteed good money for it. Adam Sandler wrote this script exactly for his own ego, his character is successful, a great basketball player, a wonderful father, a kind man, married to Selma Hayek, rich, loving, funny do you get the point yet? This is one of the laziest and most hurtful movies I have seen this year and is a shame to the word "comedy".Lenny is a Hollywood agent married to Roxanne, Eric is married to Donna, Kurt is a stay at home father and is married to Deanna, and Rob is married to Gloria despite the fact that Gloria is 30 years older then him. Lenny gets the news that their old basketball coach that led them to their one and only championships has had a heart attack and dies, he contacts all the guys to see how things are going, and to tell the about the news. The five men, along with their families, come to their hometown for the funeral. The families go to Lenny's lake house for the weekend, and reminisce about the good old days. Lenny is constantly insulted by the guys, making fun of him because he is a "ugly Hollywood agent". They make fun of Rob's wife, they make fun of Eric's obesity and breast feeding wife, they make fun of Kurt being "Mr. Mom", they make fun of their single alcoholic party friend Marcus. Lenny and Eric then take their kids to the water park, only to be mocked by the team they beat in the championship leading to another pointless game, they for some odd reason haven't gotten over the win that was how many years prior? Throw in some random family oriented problems that they skim over and that's how we get in Grown Up's.I had maybe three small laughs during this film, mainly coming from Steve Buscemi's performance. But seriously, the hurtful jokes were a bit much, they kept making fun of Kevin James' weight, Chris Rock's pride in being a stay at home dad, Rob Schneider's older wife. I can see one joke about it, but they constantly go on and on, making it ridicules and also makes you wonder how these guys are friends because my friends and I give each other a hard time, but not to the extent where it's almost 24-7. Then Sandler trying to throw in family oriented drama or love was so forced that it made me sick. He starts to have a little tiff with his wife and it's passed over within a second, making it completely pointless. This film was a waste of talent and money, it makes you wonder how these guys are "real comedians" that get a paycheck. Don't waste your money on this movie like I did, if you really wanted to see it, get together with your friends for a weekend and goof on each other, you saved 9 bucks. This was just a bad movie.2/10
After watching Black Christmas, the original from the 70's, I was just left with chills, I couldn't wait for the remake. I remember seeing the trailer for this a little while ago and it looked so scary, so I was assuming this one would be more gory and have some more jumpy moments than the original Black Christmas, unfortunately it juts ruins the original story of Black Christmas. I was really disappointed with the whole "let's make the killer mean something to the story", it does work for certain movies, but for a good slasher film, I like it when the killer doesn't have a certain motive, they're just a crazy psychopath, it makes them a little more scary like Michael Myers, no soul, no conscience, just kill for the sake of killing. Not to mention a lot of this movie didn't make any sense, also the girls were less likable, you actually rooted for them to get killed. The story was just weak and lacked the originality of the first Black Christmas, even if it is a remake.It's the Christmas season, some sorority girls have decided to stay on campus in their house rather than go home. They exchange stories of a mysterious boy who disappeared in their home town and never came back home, just having fun with each other, but things get creepy when they start receiving phone calls from a mysterious stranger, but he's using the girl's cell phone numbers as a caller ID. When a few of the girls go missing, Katie, one of the girls left over, decides to find out what's really going on, but she may not wanna find out what's going on in her own sorority house.Over all the movie does deliver on the gore, it's not completely terrible, but the problem is that it just made the original story not as much fun. Like I said, the girls are not likable in this movie, they're pretty stupid and you just can't wait for them to be killed off. But the death scenes were pretty cool, a little bit cooler than the original some aspect, I know I'll get a lot of hate for that, but you gotta love a little gore, it's a scary movie after all. I wouldn't really recommend it though unless you're in the mood for some mindless scares that don't really get to you. Stick to the original, I know I will for sure.3/10
A few months ago I saw the trailer for Horrible Bosses, the first thing that came to mind is "Finally, a true fantasy movie!". Not to sound cruel, just who hasn't had a horrible boss and dreamt of the day that they were either fired from the company or even to the point of dead just because it seems like they don't deserve to be amongst human society? But after hearing some great reviews, my boyfriend and I saw this film the other day and had a great time! Even though it's a pretty average comedy, what really makes this film work so well is the great cast, they had such a great connection and you can tell. The thing that makes most comedies great is when you saw the cast have a good time, so it's like you're getting invited to the cool party and you're allowed to have fun. This is the black comedy we have been needing in a while, with it's flaws, I promise you will have more than a few good laughs with Horrible Bosses.Nick, Dale, and Kurt are friends who despise their bosses. Nick works at a financial firm for Dave, who abuses Nick constantly. Dale is a dental assistant to Dr. Julia, who wants to have sex with Dale, who is engaged. Kurt enjoys his job working at an industrial company for Pellitt, who treats Kurt like a son, but Jack dies of a heart attack one day, leaving his biological, cocaine-addicted son Bobby in charge. One night over drinks, Kurt suggests their lives would be happier if their bosses weren't alive. That night, they finally agree to help kill their bosses. They go into a bar and meet Dean "Motherfer" Jones, a paroled ex-con who will only agree to be a murder consultant. Jones suggests that the three stage murders that look like accidents and that they do each others' bosses so as to not be traced. They all agree and now are out to get their boses.I'd say the only story that was a bit unbelievable was Dale's, he has Jennifer Anniston for a boss and she's just going above and beyond sexually harassing him. It was just a little unbelievable how far she was taking it, not to mention that when his friend saw her through the window when he was spying on her and she's having all these "suggestive" foods, funny but I'm sure if I see this again I won't laugh at that part just because it is a bit predictable. But the one story I wished they carried a little more was Kurt's boss, Dale played by Collin Farrel, he was way too funny, even though cruel, it's a comedy so you're allowed to laugh. But there could have been more fun jokes played around him, but who knows; it might have been overkill. Kevin Spacey seems to have more fun playing a bad guy, you can tell he just had a ball with this movie and he was such a pleasure to watch. Our three main actors playing the friends have such a great connection and are like today's three stooges, they worked really well playing off each other. But for me it was the bosses who stole the show, especially Kevin Spacey, but he's just a great actor. His last act with the group was priceless and it's the reason why I will always put him in my top ten list of actors. I would definitely recommend Horrible Bosses, it's a great comedy that I'm sure you'll get a few laughs from.7/10
This is the first film I have seen where Pesci is the lead role and he proved to sore beyond what his talents are, he's definitely one of the most under rated actors of all time, I feel like he's Hollywood's hidden secret weapon. :) I had heard a lot about My Cousin Vinny, I know this was the movie that won Marissa's Oscar and not to mention I heard how funny it was. My Cousin Vinny turned into a very intelligent and great comedic story.It's about two boys who have been accused of murder, with a lot of pressing evidence against them that can get them executed, but one of the boy's cousins, Vinny, is a lawyer, well, just graduated and starting his first six weeks. Not to mention, he's never fought a trial or murder case. Vinny has also brought along his Brooklyn talking fiancée, Mona Lisa Vito. With little experience and getting into a web of lies, Vinny must learn that good arguing is not just what will help, but he also has to learn how to be a lawyer.Joe and Marissa absolutely steal the show. I think my favorite part was when Mona Lisa was on the stand talking about which cars were involved in the murder case, she just got into a fight with Vinny and she refuses to help him, but she does and he kisses her hand and you can tell they made up, but it's just their looks that are just plain priceless! Everything about this film could make anyone laugh and make them fall in love with Joe Pecsi, he's just so awesome! 9/10
So on the Chills Network on cable they are having "Vampire Month", I'm such a dork, but I love vampires. So after a few duds that they showed I was pretty disappointed, but then I noticed Sleepwalkers was written by Stephen King. So I decided to go ahead and check it out, well much to my surprise, this movie was really bad. Most Stephen King films are entertaining and some are very scary. While Sleepwalkers was bad, it was a beautiful kind of bad. I had a good time laughing at this movie and just taking it for what it was. I've never read Sleepwalkers, from what I understand this is the only real vampire story by King, so I can't really compare book to film. I don't know if it was just my TV, but Sleepwalkers looked like it was made for TV. The special effects were corny and the story was a bit far fetched, even if it is fantasy, it had a lot of problems. Charles Brady and his mother Mary are vampires who feed off the life force of virgin women. They are considerably more resilient than humans and have powers of both telekinesis and illusion. Their one weakness is cats, who are not only able to see through their illusions but whose claws are capable of inflicting severe to fatal wounds upon them. They also maintain an incestuous relationship. Charles and Mary have taken up residence in a small Indiana town. Charles attends the local high school, and there he meets Tanya Robertson in his creative writing class. Tanya does not suspect the real reason why Charles wants her so much; to take her life force for his mother, who is starving. At first, it seems that Charles has fallen in love with Tanya. On their first date, however, a picnic at the nearby cemetery, Charles attempts to drain the life force from Tanya while kissing her. As it happens, Deputy Sheriff Andy Simpson who had earlier tried to pull Charles over for speeding, drives by the cemetery and notices Charles' car. When Tanya runs to him for help, Charles tracks Andy down and kills him. When Charles then turns to resume his life force-depleting make out session with Tanya, the deputy's cat, Clovis, rises to the occasion and nearly kills Charles by scratching him in the face and chest. Mortally wounded by Clovis, Charles staggers back home to Mary. Mary then seeks vengeance on Tanya's family.So to sum this movie up basically you should expect the cheese to overflow. The scene where Charles attacks Tanya for the first time is very cliché and you almost vote for Charles to win just because Tanya is one of the dumbest female leads in horror movies. Then you gotta love the scene where Mary has a gun and shoots it at a cop car and somehow the whole thing explodes, God bless Hollywood explosions and exaggerations. I'm taking the movie for what it is, it's just so deliciously bad that it turns into a dark comedy for me that I could just enjoy making fun of. I'm not sure if this is what Stephen King wanted to see for his story, but he does have his typical cameo in the film. So my suggestion if you watch this movie, just take it for what it is and don't over think it, it's mindless entertainment with corny effects, bad casting, a silly story and enough cats to make the crazy cat lady from The Simpson's say "Wow, that's a lot of cats".4/10
I was so excited to rent Dan in Real Life, from the original movie trailer, this looked like it was going to be a great film, unfortunately, I never got to seeing it in the theater. But as soon as it was out on rental, I grabbed it without hesitation, I love Steve Carell so much, he's a great actor and has terrific comedic elements. So I watched this film last night and I have to say while it's still a good movie and has some really fun moments, I was expecting a little more. I think the story was a little predictable and the characters in the film, well, 99% of them were not likable at all. Dan was the only character who seemed likable and very normal, his daughters(excluding his youngest) were very immature and obnoxious. His brother, Mitch was extremely fake and also very annoying. The story is original but becomes a little predictable and turns into something that could've been more unique.Dan is a widower with his three daughters, life seems very depressing for him, his oldest can't wait to drive, his middle girl is in a lustful relationship, and his youngest is just begging for attention. He is also very lonely; on a weekend vacation with his family, he meets a lady, Marie, they talk on and on, but she says she has a boyfriend. Later on back at his parent's house, he sees Marie again, guess what? Her boyfriend is his brother, Mitch, can you smell the tension? Now they have to get through the weekend together trying to forget the chemistry they had.Dan in Real Life is definitely worth the look, no doubt about it. Steve pulls in a very good performance, Dane Cook, surprisingly does as well. It's a nice feel good movie of the year that will have you smiling in some scenes for sure. I just love how Dan keeps bumping into the cop for his driving scenes, "just put it on my tab", the way he said that was just so funny. Unfortunately the story could've been more, that's the only thing that was disappointing I'd have to say. It's good, but it could've been better, but I still recommend this movie, it is a good one, just I'm glad I rented before I bought.7/10
I am a huge fan of the first and second Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, they were both fun films that even the oldest adult could still have fun too, I grew up with the cartoon and movies, so I just loved them from minute one. I never had an interest to see Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles III, because it looked so horrible, but my friend said it was pretty cute and to give it a shot, so I did since it was a free rental and at least I finished the sequels. But it did waste my time because it was so sad hearing really lame voices and the costumes seemed to be different.Basically, this is going to be such a short paragraph since the plot is really very simple, but here it goes, the turtles now have a time stick thing-a-ma-jig, so when April accidentally steps into it, she goes back to the 17th century in China switching places with the king's son, the turtles must go back and help April. But they find out that they need to help the army against and evil British soldier, or at least from what I've gathered.Please, stick to the first and the second Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, those are really the worthy and fun movies for the classic cartoon and story. This was such a bad change, to be honest, if the directors couldn't get the original cast, not including Casey Jones, he shouldn't have bothered, because it was so disturbing hearing Splinter in a scary high pitched evil Japanese voice, you have to admit, it was scary.3/10
I Am Legend was the best looking film release for early December; I was looking forward to it, like many others I am sure. So I saw I Am Legend tonite with my boyfriend, now after the movie we just looked at each other and had that disappointed look and then the audience just looked around and just walked out grunting and I heard nothing but "that was a waste of money". That's definitely not a good thing. I think the problem was definitely the script, the story was not explained well as well as the character development needed improvement. The way that I Am Legend was shot very well, it had a very isolated and cold feeling. Will Smith does a fine job of acting; his best though? Not so much. The story also took a strange turn from Sci-Fi to religion towards the end. Not to mention, was this a zombie film? I don't know, because it was never explained.Robert Neville is a scientist who is the last man alive in New York City. A cure of cancer has gone horribly wrong and killed off almost 90% of the human population. The cure has turned people rabid and has made them feed on humans. Robert has lost his family in trying to get them out of New York during the evacuation, but he is dedicated to finding a cure for this virus. Along with his only companion, his dog, Samantha, he has to survive this scary and isolated world and try to find the last survivors before he goes insane or gets attacked by these creatures.I Am Legend had good ideas, like I said, the script just needed major work. Like with Robert's flash backs, it seemed like they just stopped the story at that point and didn't explain how the rest of the population died out and how he was really the ONE and ONLY person who survived New York's virus. I know he said he was immune, but no one else was? Major spoiler: they killed his dog off almost in the beginning of the film which didn't seem right to me. I Am Legend is one of the year's biggest disappointments with me, I guess not everything Will Smith touches is gold. If you want to see I Am Legend, please just expect a lot of confusion and not much of a story, I am very disappointed.4/10
I give much credit to the French, I think they're taking over Japan when it comes to fishing out the horror films now. Inside kind of started this new trend of the "extreme" films that are a bit much to handle and test your endurance. I had heard a little bit about this film a couple years ago and always wanted to see it, but I'm so slow, I didn't buy it until this year and watched it a few nights ago and I love this movie! What is the horror genre when you really think about it? You have two different kind of horror: real and fantasyhonestly, both do scare me, but to each their own and this was the "real" horror. A couple of years ago, my fiancé and I were talking about having kids and I told him that it makes me kind of nervous. I'm one of the rare females that doesn't look at pregnancy as a beautiful thing, but as a scary movie. He then did this sick joke of showing me a birth on youtube and I'm not kidding, I ran to the bathroom and threw up and sobbed. He freaked out and said I can watch a ton of horror movies but that this got to me. Pregnancy is a very scary thing and Inside takes your worst fears of it and lifts it times a million.Expectant mother Sarah has been in a car accident, and her husband has been killed. Months later on Christmas Eve, Sarah is making final preparations for her delivery the following day. Still reeling from her husband's death, Sarah is now moody and depressed. That evening, a mysterious woman arrives at Sarah's door asking to use the telephone to call for help. Sarah lies that her husband is sleeping and she does not want to be disturbed, but the woman tells her that she knows that he is dead. When the visitor persists on coming in, Sarah, calls the police. When they arrive, the woman has already vanished. As Sarah goes to bed, the woman arrives in the bedroom, awakening Sarah with scissors. Sarah fights the visitor off and locks herself in the bathroom, where the woman tries to gain entry. The woman makes clear that her intentions are to take Sarah's child.This film is very rough, definitely not for everyone. When I get asked how I can watch an extreme film like this one, I tell people it's like a roller coaster, people are always looking for the tallest or scariest, you want to test yourself to see how much you can take. Is it that bad? You have to see for yourself. Now as for the film, the performances are really what make this film. What could've been a typical gore movie made just for the squirms, instead we have two powerful performances by our lead actresses. Pregnancy is in itself scary, even if you are excited to have children, there's always this deep dark thought that something will go wrong. Inside takes it much deeper, besides the fear of having to raise a child yourself, what if something goes wrong during the birth? Now let's add someone who wants your baby and has a grudge against you and you have no idea why. Then on top of it, this poor woman, Sarah, accidentally kills her mother thinking that she's that attacker and your heart just shatters for her. Everything is just not working for this girl and we always want the good guy to win. But like in real life, no matter how good a person you are, bad things do happen. There are three main colors in this film: red, black and white. I liked how the attacker was wearing black, like she's the grim reaper, as opposed to Sarah who's wearing a white nightgown like an angel. The downstairs is nothing but red like blood and Hell. This is an all out horror movie and you find yourself just hiding behind your blanket hoping that Sarah will get a break, but even then, after everything she's been through, is it worth it? Inside is a terrific horror movie with little to no flaws. The only thing I would say is that the gore is a bit much at times, but it doesn't bother me that much, but it could bother someone else. This movie isn't meant for anyone but adults who are looking for a good scare and Inside certainly gives you that.9/10
I was going through my mother's movies the other day and I came across All that Jazz, I remember reading in my 1001 movies you must see before you die book, this was mentioned. I had absolutely no idea what it was about, but I noticed that Roy Scheider was in it and he's a fantastic actor, so i figured what did I have to loose? I slipped it in and this is definitely one of the most unique movies I have ever seen. Like I said I had no clue what it was about, so I even watched it twice just to clarify things and still I was just left dumbfounded. The way this film was made is not your typical biography, it does have exciting dance sequences and a lot of trippy scenes. It's strange to say, but it's very dated by the way this film was made. Roy does a knock out performance, not his best, but it makes the film work, but I just don't think this was a film for my tastes.Joe Gideon is a choreographer who is tough, but unique. He always cooks up something good and everyone just adores him, including an endless line of women. Let's put it this way, the line of women he's had an affair with could go around the world twice. We go through his life story, how he came to be who he was. A chain smoking perfectionist who worked non-stop to get ever step and beat down. The critics start to worry that he is loosing his touch, Joe works harder than ever to prove them wrong leading him into a physical break down, but he is determined to put the greatest show on stage.Roy really makes the film worth your watch, so I felt like my time wasn't totally lost. I just couldn't get into this movie. I think it depends on your tastes, it's just made very strangely, which I did understand the direction they were going for to understand Joe's madness, but it just wasn't for me. The whole dream sequences with I think her name was Angelique were just a little off key, I know why she was apart of the story, but it was just a little too strange. I'm not sure if I could recommend this, the only thing I can say is that it is a one of a kind film that you have to be in a certain mood for.6/10
My Super Ex Girlfriend turned out to be a pleasant surprise for me, I was really expecting a horrible movie that would probably be stupid and predictable, and you know what? It was! But this movie did have so many wonderful laughs and a fun plot that anyone could get a kick out of. I know that this was a very cheesy movie, but Uma and Anna were just so cool and Steve was such a great addition along with a great cast that looked like they had so much fun and that's what made the movie really work.Jenny Johnson(scary, that's my best friend's actual name) is not your typical average librarian looking woman, when Matt, your average male, asks her out, he's in for more than he expected, he's asked G-Girl out on a date, the super hero of the world! But when he finds out what a jealous and crazy girl she really is and decides that it may be a good idea that they spend some time apart, but Jenny won't have it since he's fallen for another girl, Hannah, and she will make his life a living hell, I mean, let's face it, he couldn't have chosen a better girl to break up with.The effect were corny, but you seriously move past them quickly, the story and cast made the story really work and I loved Uma in this movie, it was such a step up from Prime. My Super Ex Girlfriend is a fun movie that you shouldn't really take seriously, it's just a cute romantic comedy that I think if I could get a laugh out of it, anyone could.7/10
I didn't really know what to expect from Stop Loss, it was just playing at the theater that I worked at and I figured I would go ahead and check it out. So I saw it last night and I have to say that this was seriously one of the most depressing movies of 2008. I went away from this movie just feeling so sad and extremely low, which threw me off on the film. I'm not a supporter of the war in Iraq, I do have 2 cousins and a few friends who are fighting this war and I hate it, so seeing this movie just reminded me even more of that hatred I have. See, the thing is, is that this movie is a reminder to most people why war is Hell and also why they hate what's going on. While I appreciated Kimberly's message to us and reminds us of the pain these soldiers are going through, the story just remains in a biased plot of the constant battle against terrorism.Brandon has just come home from Iraq and is just enjoying his Texas life with his best friend, Steve, and his other friends. They're drinking, flirting, and partying. But the war has ultimately gotten to them, they're hallucinating, hitting their wives, and are just going crazy. When Brandon is called for Stop-Loss, where he has to go back to Iraq when he was supposed to stay home, he understandably gets angry and runs for it. He tries to head for the border, but realizes that maybe his team needs him.Stop Loss is a decent movie and it does have a very powerful message, while I always agree that a war movie is going to be very deep, I think this movie went a little further and could have been lighter, but that's just my opinion, I would have done the story a little different. I also understand Kimberly's message, she meant well with this movie, I think it doesn't work as well as her movie, Boys Don't Cry, but Stop Loss is definitely worth a watch. Ryan Phillipe is becoming a fine actor and holds the film very well, Channing Tatum does alright, enough to keep the film going. The story is a little much, but I think this is one movie you're going to have to judge for yourself.7/10
We're normal people, we live normal lives and go about our daily tasks. But what if for a couple of weeks, we got to hang out with Montley Crue who you could easily say was one of hard rock's most crazy bands and has some extreme stories that one could only dream to tell. We could never party the way they did or any other hard rock band, but we don't even have that type of a band any more. But in Get him to the Greek we have one last rock star who does and that's Aldous Snow. A spin off of Forgetting Sarah Marshall, this movie capitalizes on it's most favorite character. However even though he does remember dating Sarah Marshall, Jonah Hill is a completely different character from Forgetting Sarah Marshall. So I wasn't sure if this was a continue on Adous Snow's character or the story. But let's assume that it's different, this falls into the more predictable comedies. We'll have some gross out jokes, some weird forced jokes, then gross out jokes and a heart felt message that makes you just go "awww" at the end.Rock star Aldous Snow releases an album and an accompanying single "African Child." The song and music video flops, is banned and called "the worst thing to happen to Africa". His girlfriend Jackie Q takes custody of their son, Naples, and leaves him; as a result, Aldous hits rock bottom by drinking and doing drugs excessively once again. Meanwhile, in Los Angeles, Aaron Green works as a low-level talent scout at Pinnacle Records. Pinnacle Records has lost a lot of money, so the head of the company, Sergio Roma, asks for ideas. Green proposes to have Aldous Snow play at the Greek Theatre in Los Angeles for the tenth anniversary of a particularly famous performance there. One month later, he sends Aaron to London to retrieve Aldous. After retrieving Aldous from his apartment, Aaron tries desperately to control Aldous' rambunctious behavior, which causes them to miss several flights. They bar-hop across the city for several hours, leaving a trail of women and alcohol. Taking Aaron on a ride that even Montley Crue would say to chill out on, he parties like a true rock star.The one thing that I could say that got a huge laugh out of me with this movie was Sean Combs aka "P. Diddy". Him at the end with Aldous trying to bring Aaron back to life from an overdose and P. Didddy is just fighting with all these people and then gets hit by a car while running in the streets was just priceless. There are some occasional good moments in this movie, but I would say that over all it's forgettable. There wasn't anything special about it and I liked having Aldous just in Forgetting Sarah Marshall, here he seems so forced on you that you have to like him because he parties. I also found the scene in the airport where Aldous asks Aaron to shove drugs up his behind very unbelievable. Come on, no one saw that while he was doing it in public?! Then let's add in Aaron puking every 5 seconds, how is that funny? The movie just seemed so forced and could have been so much better with another writer. It's a rental, that's about it, it has a few chuckles, but it's nothing special.4/10
On the internet one of the films that has had the biggest buzz that I noticed was a movie called A Serbian Film, getting so many bans and claiming to be too extreme to show to any audience. Naturally being the freak that I am love to see the forbidden, I've seen a lot of extreme films trying to test my limits on what I can take. For some reason I did build this movie up in my head to make it a lot worse than I could imagine, which wasn't as bad as I thought it would be. However, this did push my limits and not even with the particular "newborn" scene that is usually the center of attention, keeping in mind that I watched films like The Exorcist and Jaws when I was a child so I know what's a movie and what's reality, it's the ending that killed me. The reason I love extreme films is because I feel that a lot of films are so watered down with the truth and that bad things do happen to good people. It's a hard reality to accept and you don't want to believe it, we close our eyes to a lot of crimes every day. I thought that A Serbian Film was going to be like that, I know the porn industry has been labeled as too extreme for a lot of people to quit or end up dying of disease or drug over dose, but this took it to a much darker level of almost being a snuff film done in a Hollywood way.Milo is a semi-retired Serbian porn star with a beautiful wife, Marija, and young son, Petar. Although he is strapped financially and his home life is happy, his biggest problem comes in the form of the jealousies of his brother, Marko, a corrupt police officer who envies Milo' family life. Seeking one last big payday to make a clean break from pornography and secure his family's financial future, Milo is intrigued when one of his former co-stars, Lejla, approaches him with an offer to star in an "art film" being directed by Vukmir, a well-connected, independently wealthy pornographer who wants to cast Milo for his legendary ability to get and maintain an erection. When Vukmir offers Milo a large sum of money to star in the film, Milo reluctantly agrees, ambivalent towards Vukmir's insistence that he must remain ignorant as to the plot of the film until shooting begins. Milo is picked up the next morning and taken to an orphanage where he is supplied an earpiece by Vukmir's driver. He goes into the making of this film realizing that he may of just made the biggest mistake of his life with the director's darker intentions.It's hard to say if I liked this film or not, excluding the scenes that are extreme, there are some strange moments. Petar, the son, is watching one of his dad's old porn films and his parents walk in and treat it pretty light hearted and when he starts asking them what that funny feeling in his pants was his dad tells him to fix it with his hand. Keeping in mind this is a child who could be no more than 10 years old. The last minute of this film was a little confusing. But all in all, this is a tragic film and I would agree that this film can be way too hard to handle. The ending is absolutely horrific and without giving too much away, just trust me when I say that if you think you've seen it all, you'll still be shocked and sickened. I don't know what the director's purpose with this movie was, I did read that it was his take on the Serbian government, which confuses me even more. I don't know if it was a way of saying they screw around with the people too much? I give the film a lot of credit as it has the kahoniees to go where no mainstream film dares to go. I can see the reason for the ban from several countries. Like I said, if you think you've seen it all, A Serbian Film will still make your mouth drop at least once. To those who think it wasn't shocking, I don't want to know what you do consider to be in bad taste. So if you're curious, just be prepared, I don't even know if I could tell my friends about this film because they will definitely be asking me how I made it through this movie.7/10
OK, I'm not going to bash this film based on Paris Hilton, I admit, I don't like the girl, but I'm not going to base my comment on that alone, I think it's unfair. A lot of people are giving this movie a one just because of Paris without even seeing the movie, it gets a bit annoying. But I don't know why, I think I was just in a mood for one of those awful films that just leave a bad taste in your mouth, I think every once in a while, we need to see something like that. Now the problem with The Hottie and the Nottie, besides it's stupid title? The story, beyond predictable and hypocritical, along with the acting... it's like they just took people off the street who had no credibility to be in a film. I love how Paris Hilton isn't even the main character and yet she is first billed, you know that she paid good money for that or wouldn't be in it, big woop, her as an innocent charity loving girl, that's believable.Nate Cooper is a man that just can't seem to move on in life, after 20 years he returns to his home town looking for his first grade crush, Cristabel. She's still around making men drool, but she won't go for him unless he can hook her ugly friend, June, up with a guy as well. June has bad teeth, bad skin, bad nails, bad hair, just all in all, it's bad, so Nate does everything he can to get June a guy, but it's more difficult than he could ever expect, until he finds out that love isn't everything he thought it might be.The script is predictable, stupid, could've been written by a teenager and was very hypocritical, which you will see what I mean if you watch this movie. Now I know that they were just trying to get a big name, but come on... Paris Hilton? I actually had an open mind and just thought to give the movie a shot, but she just is such a horrible actress, like beyond horrible, I'm not just saying that because of who she is, just I know you'll believe me. This is a movie that really shouldn't have been made or if Hollywood wanted it so much, get different people, please, before they do something like cast Paris... never mind. Stay away from this movie at any costs.1/10
I saw the remake of The Italian Job a couple of years ago and I was blown away by it, the remake was so excellent and a lot of fun to watch. So I figured that I would give this Italian Job a look, even though I wasn't as blown away as I was with the remake, I sill had fun watching this classic. It had incredible car chase scenes and that was what really won me over, they were just so well choreographed and kept you on the edge of your seat the whole time.Charlie has just been released from prison and one of his friends has just died trying to complete a job, to get 4 million dollars that is being transfered to China. Charlie decides to take the job with some help of his friends and also with the help of the mini coopers that will come to good use when they cause the biggest traffic jam in Italian history and wither they make it or not in succeeding in this job, well, you're just going to have to watch the movie.While again, I wasn't too thrilled with the ending, it was good, but it just ended weirdly, this was still a fun movie that I think honestly anyone could enjoy. I would highly recommend it, but I think I will choose the remake if I was going to watch The Italian Job. But go ahead and give this movie a shot, because you'll never know when you'll find your own little treasure.7/10
I am on a goal to see all the sci-fi films of the 1950's, I took a film appreciation class a few years back and I remember learning about the 50's era when we had more sci-fi films then any other genre. Now I'm onto The War of the Worlds, based off a radio broadcast by H.G. Wells that shocked the world. I did see the re-make by Steve Spielberg first before I saw the original, Spielberg's version is actually pretty decent, but despite it's cheesy effects, The War of the Worlds is a great classic that can still give anyone goosebumps. This was one of the more violent sci-fi movies, the aliens are not just after a group or a couple of people, but they mean to destroy the entire world. I love watching these old movies to get the feel of the time and how the cold war era effected a lot of the plots or characters of the sci-fi genre.After a meteor crash, a whole town is just shook up, after the meteor opens, the people are excited thinking this may be something incredible to learn about, maybe a creature from another world. Well it is, but they're not there to party with the humans, they're there to destroy the world. Trying to figure out how to stop these evil machines from killing off the entire world, more die as the others figure out they're at war with other worlds.The War of the Worlds is a good film, I know it's cheesy, but it's all good and you just have to think of the time set it was it, when you think about it, this is actually a brilliant film. I thought the most terrifying scene was when the first three men who go up to the alien thinking if they surrender that it'll all be good, but the machine lures over them and just kills them. I would recommend for any film lover to watch The War of the Worlds, it was ahead of it's time and still stands out as a great sci-fi classic.7/10
You know the phrase "they don't make them like they used too"? Well, George Clooney definitely took that to heart when he decided to direct and act in Leatherheads. This movie hits back to "It Happened One Night" type of slap stick, or at least that's what it reminded me of. To me it seems like George Clooney is trying to be like the next Clark Gable, Renee Zellwegger, don't get me wrong, I love this girl, she's a great actress, but I wasn't too impressed with her performance in Leatherheads. With her and George it seemed like they were trying so hard to make the slap stick work and really forced it, while the jokes are funny, it doesn't click as well as it should like the old time comedies. The problem with this movie is that it doesn't know wither it wants to be a romantic comedy slap stick or how football was born in America type of comedy, so George Clooney misses more than hits.Set in the 1920's, Jimmy and his football team are in the birth of football. The problem is that they don't win and their sponsors are fed up with their stunts and loosing streaks. So when they drop the football team, Jimmy looks for a job, but fails, but later he comes across college football star, Carter Rutherford. He offers Rutherford to join the team and the sponsors get back into play. Rutherford is also known war hero and reporter, Lexie Littleton is on the case to find out "the truth" that could possible damage Carter's career. But Jimmy is also attracted Lexie and may have to give up the only way to boost the football team's reputation again for Lexie's story.Would I recommend Leatherheads? I would say that it's worth a matinée, it's a cute movie and has some fun laughs. I loved the scene with Jimmy and Carter who just punch each other in the face and beg not to hit anywhere else because it's their weak spot. Just I think the editing was a little off, some scenes I don't understand why they were not cut in half or were even needed. George Clooney wasn't looking to make a masterpiece, but I think he took this film in the wrong direction and it's not that impressive. It's a decent movie, worth the watch, but it's not something I would buy.6/10
I just bought a DVD with About Last Night and St. Elmo's Fire both on it, for five dollars, I figured they might be worth a look. I watched St. Elmo's fire last night and I have to say that I was very impressed. Like About Last Night, this is still a very important story to this day. I have to say that both these films got to me very much because I have had to deal with the exact same situation, a relationship that had to find more than the physical attraction and now that I'm 22, dealing with an adult life. St. Elmo's Fire deals with the scary and nerve wrecking times transcending from the college life style to young adulthood. Going into a career and possible family is a lot harder than it looks, and that's what our brat pack friends have to deal with.A group of friends who have just graduated college are now facing the real world of discovering who they are. We have a couple who are in a relationship where the man wants to get married but is fooling around and the girl doesn't want to marry him. We have a girl, Jules, who is having financial troubles and is using her looks to get what she wants. We have a man, Kirby, who is obsessed with a love from childhood. Another guy, Billy, who can't grow up despite him having a child and wife. A girl, Wendy, who is learning not to rely on her father's money and is still going through the awkward faze of her looks. And last but not least, Kevin, who is in love with his best friend's girlfriend and is also a writer.St. Elmo's Fire is a good film and I know that this was one of Joel Schumacher's first films, he did a decent job I think. It's in some ways an important film of today and also is a classic in it's own right. It's one of the major brat pack films and also brought together a great story that everyone could relate too in some way. Despite how dated it is, it's a timeless story of the fears that we face having to grow up. Not too many people pay attention to this hard time in a young adult's life, so St. Elmo's Fire is a great way of taking a look at the situation. It's a good film and I recommend it.7/10
Cloudy with a Chance of Meatballs, released in a year with some other big contenders of animated films like Up and Monsters vs. Aliens, had to hold it's own. I wasn't sure how this film was going to be, the trailer did look cute, but some critics were saying that the film didn't meet their expectations. So I decided to wait for the rent, which honestly I'm glad I did. While the film is very good and very much worth the watch, I wasn't really excited like I normally am for a film like this. I've seen so many "let's rub a message down the kid's throat" movies that it does tend to get a little boring and predictable. Now I know it's always meant for the kids who haven't dealt with a message or moral before, but at least for the adults, give us something too. That's why I love a lot of animated films today, because there is humor for the adults as well and this was more aimed for the kids. But if there is one thing that I give the film credit for is the incredible animation.Flint Lockwood is a young scientist whose inventions have all ended in disaster. Flint's latest invention is a machine that converts water molecules into food. It doesn't work due to the lack of electricity at his home, so when he is forced by his unsupportive and technophobic father Tim Lockwood to work at his Bait 'n' Tackle shop. He soon meets Sam Sparks, a cute weather intern whose big break was ruined by Flint's "rocket", an invention that ruined a big event in his town. When the two witness giant purple clouds raining cheeseburgers over Swallow Falls, Sam reports the events and mentions Flint is responsible. Flint becomes famous overnight, but becomes overwhelmed with the townspeople's requests for food. The greedy Mayor Shelbourne, convinces Flint to create even more food in an effort to turn Swallow Falls into a new tourist attraction. Of course though as the town gets greedier with the food demand, the machine starts to break down and may end up destroying the town with the crazy weather.As I was saying with the animation, this has a very memorable scene that I will never forget, when the machine is going all hay-wire, there is a spaghetti tornado that is just incredible to look at. The story for kids is definitely good and the whole story is very charming and original. But like I said, it just has a few flaws that I'm not crazy about. Like casting Mr. T in the movie, I don't mind that he's in a movie, however when it's more like him just playing himself than a character, then there's no point in casting him when you could get a lesser known actor trying to make it. Bill Hader as Flint over all worked pretty well with the character and voice, he has a certain awkwardness that does blend well and makes the story believable. Anna Faris, again I love her, but not sure if they really needed her for this movie as she's not that memorable. James Caan is the only stand out performance in the film for me, he's the disapproving father who Flint is constantly trying got get the approval from. Caan always delivers a power house performance and this was no exception. Over all Cloudy with a Chance of Meatballs is worth the watch as a rental for the kids. It's a good family film, but not so much for the adults, just a warning in advance. I was expecting more and was disappointed, but still it was worth the watch and the animation was really good.6/10
I have been dying to see Monsters vs. Aliens for a while, back when it was released I never had the opportunity to go see it. One of my friends saw it and said that it was a lot of fun. So finally, I don't know how I missed it, but I saw that it was playing on HBO and definitely had to check it out. Over all I did enjoy the movie, Dreamworks usually comes up with clever ideas for animated family films. This was a very cool concept, never really thought about it, how different aliens and monsters are and what it would be like if they ever had to get into a fight. Although I do miss good old animation and there is so much CGI animation, Monsters vs. Aliens is very cool visually. The characters are so great to look at, also have great personalities that make the movie very cute and funny.Susan Murphy is hit by a meteorite on the day of her wedding to weatherman Derek, absorbing a substance called quantonium and growing into a giantess. Alerted to the meteorite crash, the military arrive and capture Susan. She is labeled a monster, renamed "Ginormica" by the government, and sent to a top-secret prison facility headed by General W.R. Monger and containing other monsters: B.O.B., a brainless, indestructible gelatinous blob; Dr. Cockroach, Ph.D., a mad scientist with the head and abilities of a cockroach; the Missing Link, an amphibious fish-ape hybrid; and Insectosaurus, a massive grub that is larger than Susan. The monsters are forbidden to have any contact with the outside world; while the other monsters have been living contentedly with this lifestyle for the past 50 years, Susan feels incredibly isolated and wishes to return to her old life. An alien named Gallaxhar detects the quantonium radiation emanating from Earth and deploys a gigantic robotic probe to find it and extract it from its source, Susan. After a botched attempt by the President to make peaceful first contact with the robot, it begins destroying everything in sight, resisting all conventional military force used against it. General Monger convinces the President to use the monsters to fight the robot instead. The monsters accept the mission with the promise of freedom if they succeed.I would of course recommend this movie for the family or if you're just a fan of animated movies. I nearly died laughing with the scene where the president tries to communicate with the alien at first, it's just so beyond goofy that you can't help but laugh and of course since he messes that up, he runs away getting into a helicopter screaming he's a great president and tried his best. Also another great scene is when the monsters first try to get rid of the alien, seeing their reaction to it and still learning what their power is and how they could use it to their advantage was great. The animation, the actors, the story and effects really made this into a great movie and an absolute pleasure to watch. While I'm not sure that this will go down in the classics, it's definitely a fun family film.8/10
Well, I guarantee you that this is no Shrek, Shark Tale was over all an average attempt at film making for animation, but I have to admit that I still had fun watching it. I recently finally accepted the fact that computer animation is the craze and there will probably from now on be no more regular classic animation, so I've pretty much seen all the new computer animation films and Shark Tale was next on my list. While it wasn't up to par with Shrek 2, I still kinda had fun, especially with the cast.Oscar is a fish who feels like the ultimate nobody and Lenny is a vegetarian shark who's father is kind of the Godfather of the shark world, so his dad expects him to be a meat eating rough tough shark. When Lenny's brother accidentally dies as he's chasing Oscar to eat him, his brother gets slammed on the head with an anchor and dies. Everyone thinks that Oscar killed the brother and names him sharkslayer, too afraid to go home, Lenny stays with Oscar helping him keep his rep by faking a beat up. But when the father wants to see what the sharkslayer is really all about, Oscar may loose his true love, Angie.Well, the jokes were a little off every once in a while and it wasn't as impressive as some other animated films, but I still had fun watching Shark Tale. I was absolutely in love with the cast and the animation was pretty good, you have to admit. I would recommend this for a family afternoon, I think you just have to let go and learn how to smile with this film, like I said, it's all in good fun.7/10
I just watched Cars yesterday and like I said in a previous comment, I am getting more into the animation flicks this year, especially since a lot of those movies are very good and very funny. Cars is the same exception with every animated movie that was made this year, it had some very funny moments, great animation, but it just felt like once again, there was nothing special.Cars is about this one car, McQueen, a very famous race car who is about to win the "Piston Cup". But when he is traveling on the road on his employee's truck, he accidentally falls off landing in a cruddy town where he ends up destroying the road. As a punishment, he must stay there until he perfects the road once again, but in the mean time, he makes some excellent friends and a lovely porche acquaintance, Sally.The story is very sweet and the animation was great, not to mention an all star cast really brought the film together, but like I said, just nothing is surprising me any more. Which is a shame, and I think others are starting to agree more that we miss the old animation, it's now just the same thing over and over again. But don't shy away from Cars, it was a good family film.7/10
I love silent films and remember seeing a clip of Metropolis in my film appreciation class, I was so excited to pick a five dollar copy of this film from Best Buy and I was just amazed at how disturbing this movie was for not only it's time, but today. Today, 2006, times are just like this movie's plot, everyone is getting so lazy due to technology's quick advancements, that they'll do anything just so they have to work less.This movie is about a boss who is upset with the way his workers are always tired and have to go home. When he brings up to another worker that he has created the perfect worker, a robot who will never get tired, hungry, or have to go home to a family. But soon the worker has a fantasy, or as I'd say a very horrific nightmare, that the robots will turn against these humans and take over the world! Yeah, silent films have always been overacted and very cheesy to look at, but it's amazing to me to see what the times were like and what the mood was. The reason why Metropolis is so well loved and respected is not only because of the mood it captured, but how amazingly psychic it was, I think since the time that electricity was discovered, we've all feared how far we could go with technology, and Metropolis is a haunting picture that captures it so well.8/10
After seeing the movie Antz, I was very curious to see A Bug's Life because most people told me that it was better than Antz. Not to mention that Kevin Spacey is my favorite actor ever! But to be honest, I was a little nervous, because I remember seeing the trailer when I was younger and it looked like a typical kid's Disney/Pixar flick, but I was pleasantly satisfied and had so much fun watching A Bug's Life, it's a true treasure for the whole family.Flic is an ant who keeps screwing things up for his colony, his colony also collects food for the grasshoppers who threaten to beat up their colony if they don't. Flic feels like if he goes out and gets some warriors to help the colony gather food, maybe things will go by faster, but he ends up meeting a flea circus of different bugs. He tells them that they are going to a place where they could perform and being appreciated for it and he lies to the colony that they are true warriors, but everything untangles in Flic's lies and the grasshoppers are getting very impatient.A Bug's Life is a great story and excellent animation, I just loved the humor that was used because it was great for kids and adults. This was a great family film and one of my new favorites from Disney and Pixar. I would highly recommend it any time, Kevin Spacey is the man! 9/10
I'm going to be up front, I don't like David Spade, I was never much of a fan of his work. But one of the girls I work with mentioned how she saw this movie and that I should see it since I know so much about pop culture, including most child star actors and their history. So I decided to give Dickie Roberts: Former Child Star a chance, what did I have to loose? I have to admit that I actually enjoyed this movie. It had definitely some of the most awesome cameo's that I have ever seen, like Corey Feldman, Dustin Diamond, Danny Bonnoduchi, Barry Williams, it was just awesome to see them playing poker together, that was the best scene. But the whole movie is pretty fun.Dickie Roberts is a former child star who's life has gone down hill since the sit com that made him a star got cancelled. He wants a comeback, but when the director, Rob Reiner, tells him that he needs a "normal" person, someone who has had a childhood, but Dickie wants the role so badly that he stays with a family to discover what he missed in his childhood. But he ends up with a lot more than he expected when this family may be all he needs.Dickie Roberts: Former Child Star is just a fun comedy with average acting, but a cool story. It was pretty unique and I just loved the ending credit sequence of the whole former child star actors singing about their memories and what it's like for them in today's world. Dickie Roberts: Former Child Star is a cute movie, some things are a bit unbelievable and the love story wasn't really needed, but it's a fun film and I would recommend it if you wanna just have a movie afternoon.6/10
I was so excited my theater got The Boy in the Striped Pyjamas, from the moment I saw this trailer, I knew I was in for a treat. This movie just looked incredible, even though it's a touchy subject with the holocaust, it still looked like it was going to be a great story. Everyone always makes a comment about the innocence of childhood, what it was like to just not have reason, to just go with the flow of things before adults tell you what you have to do. So I watched The Boy in the Striped Pyjamas today and this movie seriously is one of the saddest films I have ever seen, but I felt it was very maturely handled. The actors are great and the story is very touching, to watch these two boys from two completely different worlds who come together just to have fun, be boys, not because of the difference of their background.Set during World War II, a story seen through the innocent eyes of Bruno, the eight-year-old son of the commandant at a concentration camp, whose forbidden friendship with a Jewish boy on the other side of the camp fence. The boys have a great friendship talking every day, enjoying the company. But when the father gives Bruno a Nazi propaganda loving tutor, Bruno becomes confused, is his father an evil man or is his friend the evil one? Love his country and do his duty or don't judge and just stay true to his friend? Bruno must decide all this with some scary consequences ahead of him.The Boy in the Striped Pyjamas is a fantastic film, though if you see it, I do recommend bringing the tissues. I couldn't believe the chemistry they had with these two young actors, they worked so well together as these innocent boys who both have no idea what's going on. Bruno doesn't know why his friend is behind fences, and his friend doesn't know why he's there either. The ending is extremely powerful and the story keeps you interested. I do recommend seeing The Boy in the Striped Pyjamas, it's a treasure from 2008.9/10
Romantic comedies, I've said it before and I'll say it again, we always have the hit and miss formula that comes with this genre. For the most part it's a miss, we RARELY have a funny or original romantic comedy. It's been over a year since we've had a good romantic comedy and this year seems to be pushing the horrible movies of this genre. For example, we had The Proposal that was released this year and it was just awful and so simple. The Ugly Truth seemed to be heading the same way when I first saw the trailer, but when I learned that it was Rated R, I decided to try to give it a chance. Honestly, this movie was a lot better than I had expected, it actually had some really great laughs and is a heck a lot better than The Proposal. But once again The Ugly Truth fell back into the ugly formula of clichés that are just annoying and there were quite a few things that I would have done differently with the story, I'll first explain the plot.Abby, a TV producer, is coming home from another disastrous date one night, she happens to see a segment of a local television show, "The Ugly Truth," run by Mike Chadway, whose cynicism of relationships prompts Abby to call into the show to argue with him on-air. The next day, she discovers that the station is threatening to cancel her show because of its poor ratings, and the station owner has hired Mike to do a segment on her show to bring them back up. At first, the two have a rocky relationship; Abby thinks Mike is crass and disgusting while Mike finds Abby to be a control freak. However she meets the man of her dreams, a doctor named Colin living next to her, and Mike persuades her to follow his lead. She agrees to his helpful advice and if he can get her the man she wants, proving his theories on relationships, she will work happily with him, but if Mike fails, he agrees to quit; he successfully guides Abby to be exactly what Colin would want. But being a romantic comedy, Abby and Mike instead fall for each other as usual, you know how the story goes.Now things I would've done different, if you don't want spoilers then don't read on: there is a child that comes into Mike's apartment, he and Mike get along great, I'm thinking that's his son; instead it's his nephew. I think this would have added substance to his character and made him more likable and would have had a better story on why he was so bitter on women, maybe like the mother left him or something. Second: I honestly would have had Abby chosen the doctor over Mike. Katherine and Gerad are great on screen together, but their chemistry for this film I felt was more of a great friendship than falling in love with each other. Her choosing Mike over the doctor was so typical, I would have had the doctor find out about what was going on and then take her back realizing that he still liked her very much and then Mike ends up with some slutty girl as usual happy with his shallow life, but still enjoying it. Third: no tired formulas, no girl best friend supporting everything the lead female does, no big kiss in front of an audience, no dramatic of finding out what a kiss meant. Fourth: why do we have gorgeous people claiming they have a hard time finding love or supposedly not having sex for a year? I'm not saying it's impossible, but I'm finding it hard to believe that girls who look like Katherine Heigl are having the hardest time finding love.But there are some positives in the film, honestly I did have a good time watching this film over all, it was just the ending that killed the movie. But even the little rip off of When Harry Met Sally where Abby is wearing vibrating panties at a company dinner and someone saying what was in her food to have the same effect, it's an old joke but it never gets old. I loved that this was a Rated R rom-com because the reason MOST of these movies don't work are due to the fact that they're too family friendly and very much unrealistic. Not to say that The Ugly Truth is completely realistic, but more so than most films. We have some sick jokes but get a great laugh, Abby is going to a baseball game with Colin, her crush, and she accidentally spills her drink on his lap and starts rubbing his pants to clean them and the kiss cam lowers in on them with a bad angle looking like she's just having fun with his hot dog. Honestly I think most of the theater had a hard time catching their breath on that joke, no one could stop laughing. Katherine and Gerad do have great chemistry on screen, I just think it would have worked better as a friendship. So I would say this is better suited as a rental vs. a theater view. It's a lot better than I expected but had more potential as it falls back into the same old tired formula.6/10
I wasn't too interested in seeing Accepted, from the trailer, it looked like your typical college frat boy film that would either have annoying or gross humor. But most of my friends were giving this film some pretty decent compliments and saying that it was a fun film to watch. So I figured to stop judging and give this movie a shot. I always say "What do I have to loose?" when I pick up a movie at a rental video store.Bartleby Gaines is a high school failure who has been rejected by almost every college in his state, his father is sure that he will be disappointed again with his son. So Bartleby decides to get his parents to be quiet and stop picking on him, he forges a letter from South Harmon Institute of Technology, his own made up college. His close friends help him create an abandoned building into a college, but other rejects from other schools hear about South Harmon Institute of Technology and decide that they want to go their too. But there is a group of frat boys at the snobby college who want to tear down South Harmon Institute of Technology since that's where all the fun is.Over all, I'd recommend Accepted, it was a fun movie to watch, although I still think that it had junior high comedy that is really old, it still worked for the movie. It was nice to get away from the rude humor that is typical with a college movie. So, just sit back and have fun with Accepted, you might be just as pleasantly surprised as I was.6/10
Ah, good ol' M. Night Shamalamadingdong, as I like to call him. I feel so bad for this guy, when he created The Sixth Sense, he made one of the best thrillers of all time with a twist ending that set the bar so high that others would always try to succeed it. Ever since then, Shamalamadingdong has been trying to outdo himself with a ton of twist endings and scripts that my Pomeranian could write. When I saw the trailer for Devil, I got excited because it looked really creepy, then I saw the director's name and just sighed, it's pretty much likely that the movie will flop and will be horrible. I just caught it on a movie channel, actually I have to give Shamalamadingdong some credit, this is an improvement over his last films. However, it's still one of the most ridicules movies I have ever seen.Five strangers board an elevator, which becomes stuck between floors just shortly after starting up to the upper floors. The five don't introduce themselves right away, but when security finds them, they notice that other than the CCTV and a radio which they can communicate into the elevator. Lustig, the head of security, sends repair technician Dwight to investigate the elevators while Bowden tries to ascertain the identities of the individuals. Things turn from strange to frightening when there is a freak power outage in the elevator, and the girl in the elevator is wounded with what appears to be a bite. Dwight attempts to rappel down the elevator shaft via a pulley to try and fix the elevator, but security guard Ramirez says that the Devil would stop any attempts to help his victims as more supernatural things occur; this proves there is a demonic entity in the elevator haunting the passengers.There's this line that nearly killed me with laughter, the religious nut Ramirez says that everything goes wrong when the devil is near, he throws a piece of pizza and it lands on the cheese side and says that the jelly side always lands up, oh, my God, seriously?! So all those times I was cooking in the kitchen when my chicken burned, it was the devil! All those times I fell down, it was the work of the devil! How could you ever take that line seriously? I also was watching the movie with my friends and once again we took the classic bet 10 dollars for who would guess the devil, I won, again! My opinion is, a lot of old people are the devil, they cling onto the god skirt later in life claiming that it's because they are about to die and they need to get into heaven, no! They are covering something else! I digress, anyways, when the devil reveals herself, the guy that she's after confesses to his sin and she's like "damn, I really wanted you".really? You went through all this trouble and all he has to do is say his sin out loud and all is forgiven? Also the whole religious factor was silly in my opinion, why not just make it a demon entity in the elevator? It's hard to believe that the devil doesn't have better things to do than haunt a couple of dead beats.However, my review isn't all complaints. Shamalamadingdong actually does a decent job with atmosphere and the story. Even though the script needs some major work without the clichés, there was some incredible potential for a great story, even an excellent franchise that we need since the Saw series came to an end last year. I like the whole idea of a demon haunting those who have done wrong in life waiting to confess and get the punishment they truly deserve. The characters were interesting, except for Ramirez who can easily get on a lot of people's nerves, and the effects were actually pretty good. I would say this is definitely an improvement over Shamalamadingdong's previous works. He's come a long way and hopefully he just chooses better scripts or learns how to edit, we need the tension still, he knows he can do it, we believe in you Shamalmadingdong! 4/10
Thank God I live in Chicago... Just Kidding! Boy, that wasn't a good way to start off this comment. :P I just watched An Inconvenient Truth because my mom has just been driving me insane with her watching all this global warming stuff on the weather and history channel, I just wanted to get my facts straight since I don't watch that much television and could finally get her to quiet down about it. But this turned into a decent and straight to the facts documentary about what has been happening to our planet for the past 4 decades.First a paragraph on the two things that ticked me off about this film. First off, Al Gore, there were some clips about his childhood, his son being in an accident, and how he lost the election in 2000, I have one question, unless I missed something, what did that have to do with the documentary? And secondly, I'm so sick of America living in constant fear of this and that, and An Inconvenient Truth is well, inconvenient! It's just adding fuel to the fire.However, I believe this is a movie not to be missed, because I'm going to admit this for the first time, I was in a lot of denial. I didn't realize truly how much we take the earth for granted and we need to try our best to help prevent these horrible tragedies from happening. Although I'm still not sure if this will be happening in the near future, only God can tell us that, and we just have to do the best we can to prevent it. An Inconvenient Truth is a very important documentary we should watch, for at the sake of future generations.7/10
I am a huge fan of both Morgan Freeman and John Cussack, so when I saw this rental at Hollywood Video, I didn't hesitate, it seemed like a very good idea of the two of them being together in the film. However, I was disappointed when I brought it home and looked up the rating on IMDb to see an average rating. But knowing I had to get my money's worth, I watched it this evening, now I didn't think it was a bad movie, but it was pretty average for what I was expecting from these extremely talented actors. The plot had extreme potential, but some things were not explained well enough, like the characters just had no depth. The script just needed some more work.After Ray's son gets into trouble, he wants to do a little bonding with him, so he takes him camping. But things get a little interesting when he and his son try to save two people from the river who have washed ashore, one of them is a police officer who is fatally wounded and the other man, Cander, is a hit man who is wanted by the F.B.I. and is also being followed by his fellow assassins. Ray and his son take Cander and try to take him to the police, but it's hard when the assassins are after all of them and won't stop until they get what they want.A hit-man with a heart of gold, not that original, not that believable, not to mention how some of the plot seemed a bit mediocre and confusing at times. Now, Morgan and John did a good job with what they had, they made the film watchable. They really did have good chemistry so I do hope they do a film together soon, just before they do that, they read the script first. So The Contract is a film I would say is watchable, just like I said, it's a bit average for what you would expect, but just judge for yourself.6/10
Well, since it seems that we have hit a slump in the movie theater business, I wasn't sure what I wanted to see. I've seen the bigger movies this year so far and nothing has satisfied me. So I had never seen a trailer for Hot Tub Time Machine, so I had no expectations, it may have a stupid title, but stupid comedies can be awesome at times as well. So I decided to just let all my guards down and just see if I could enjoy this movie. Though I didn't get as much of a kick out of it as I see many have written good reviews on this movie or as I've also watched, it seems like everyone is going crazy over it. But still I thought this was a fun story that brings in a few good laughs. The film is very crass and a little over board with some of the gross jokes, I don't mind a gross joke here or there as long as it works with the story and we just had a lot of that in this film that made me back off a little. But again, it's the story and chemistry that works very well with the film. Of course what would you do if you went back in time? Would you leave everything alone or like 99.9% of the world want to change something you felt you made a mistake on? During this scary decade called the 1980's, heck if I had that opportunity, I would claim the movie Titanic then go super pop star singing "Oops! I did it again" as we see a little of that in Hot Tub Time Machine.In 2010 Los Angeles, four good friends have had a string of bad luck with their adult lives: Adam has been dumped by yet another girlfriend; Lou is a party guy who cannot find the party; Nick has a dead end job and an unfaithful wife named Courtney who controls his every move; and Adam's video game obsessed nephew Jacob lives in his basement. When Lou nearly kills himself through carbon monoxide poisoning, Adam and Nick impulsively take him and Jacob to the site of some of their most memorable weekends, the Kodiak Valley ski resort, which like them has fallen upon hard times. After a crazy night of drinking in a hot tub, the men wake up, heads pounding, in the year 1986. Realizing that all the mistakes they have made were during this summer that lead to their unfortunate futures, they decide it's time to rectify their actions and make things a lot better.Again, the movie for me wasn't crazy laugh out loud funny, but I felt it was still worth the watch. I did however get a good laugh when Nick calls his future wife, she's only 9 or 10 years old when he calls her in the 1980's and is screaming at her, of course only being a child she doesn't get what the heck he's talking about. I also loved that this movie didn't turn to the cliché where it sends this message to the audience that we cannot mess with our past, just accept our mistakes, because honestly, who wouldn't take advantage knowing what you know now, you'd want to maybe take out some stock in Microsoft or claim a later famous song as your own. Over all, I'm glad I did see it, but it's one of those movies where I've seen it once, I'm more than happy with that and we can leave it at that. I would recommend this movie for a rental or a matinée as again, quite the slump for 2010 movie wise so far.6/10
In high school in my history class, we had a little segment where we learned about Marie-Antoinette and what her life was like and why she was murdered. It's plain and simple in four little words "Bored Little Rich Girl", but I think deep down she wasn't a bad person, money probably changed her. I had no interest though in seeing Marie-Antoinette because I still have a very strong grudge against Sophia Coppola for "Virgin Suicides", but my mom rented the movie and said that it was really good and to give it a chance. While it was better than what I expected, it still didn't thrill me, I'll explain in moment.Based on Marie-Antoinette's life and how she came into extreme wealth and soon to become the queen of France, we learn the different side of what she was and how she was forced to leave Austria to marry a very hesitate prince who seems very scared about creating a baby with her. After people pressuring her to have a baby and saying her marriage has failed, they finally have a baby girl, but the king dies making her husband king and her queen of France and Marie definitely takes advantage of all the riches of a wealthy life. That is until the peasants are upset since they are starving and Marie simply responds "Let them eat cake".While it was a lot better than what I expected, I still had a few problems with the movie, first off, I think Sophia didn't have total respect for the story, because she could have made it more unique and enjoyable to watch. The music was very awkward and out of place, I know there are some movies that want to make it an up to date feel, but this time it just felt very strange for where it was supposed to take place. But still I have to say this is something that wasn't bad, just could have been better.5/10
Planet of the Apes is a classic film that a lot of people at least know about if they haven't seen it, you know the lines and certain scenes. It was a terrific sci-fi movie that made a break through for twist endings. Tim Burton remade the movie with Mark Wahlberg and it was just horrible, you would think that it was the closing chapter in the Planet of the Apes series. But then Rise of the Planet of the Apes came along and when I saw the trailer, I was just like "here we go again". Thinking that it was going to be a horrible movie and that they just wouldn't let the series rest in peace. But instead I have to say that I was one hundred percent wrong, I watched this movie last night and was just totally blown away. It's a prequel not trying to up the original by any means and the special effects are actually done very well. Not only that but the actors are all great who bring a lot of character to the film and gave us a reason to almost vote for the apes to take over the planet.Will Rodman is a scientist at Gen-Sys who has been trying to develop a cure for Alzheimer's disease and is testing a new gene therapy drug on chimpanzees. The drug, a modified virus, mutates the chimpanzees, giving them a human level of intelligence. A female chimp who believes her baby is being threatened goes on a rampage and is shot by security guards. An employee Franklin cannot bring himself to kill the baby chimp and instead gives him to Will, who takes him home to raise. Will's father Charles, who is suffering from Alzheimer's disease, names the baby chimp "Caesar". Caesar has inherited his mother's high intelligence and develops quickly. One day the nasty neighbor starts picking on Charles and Ceasar gets protective and attacks the neighbor sending him to a home for chimps where he's constantly abused and sees the coldness of the world. He gets the medicine after sneaking out one night and stealing it, he gives it to the other apes and decide to take over the planet.James Franco and John Lithgow were just terrific in the movie, there's this scene between them where John is lying in the bed dying and James wants to try again to save him, but John grabs his hand as they lie next to each other and he passes away in his sleep. I love moments where there is just silence, the expressions were enough to make you seriously shed a tear if you've lost a loved one. The star of the film though is Andy Serkis, who played King Kong and Gollum in the Lord of the Rings movies, he plays Cesar and is just fantastic. I wish he would get more notice when it came to the academy because he brings a lot of life and personality into these creatures that could be just pure CGI with no emotion, but he plays Cesar so wonderfully that you want to join the apes as well and stand behind him. There are a lot of great scenes between him and James Franco, especially when Cesar looks for permission from James like a father to go play. It's so sad to see that he's so intelligent and wonderful but there are still people in the world who are cruel and treat him that way, to see his reaction as he slowly turns against the human race is just heart breaking. I really loved this movie, I will be buying it soon to add to my Planet of the Apes collection and I'm looking forward to the next sequel if this is what they are offering.10/10
I guess America will never be sick of the Chipmunks, though who am I kidding? I always watched the cartoon when I was a kid. Of course I saw the movie a few years ago and was pleasantly surprised that it wasn't a bad film. I was worried about the CGI and thought it would be cheesy, but it wasn't all that bad. There were even some great catchy songs that you found yourself singing too as well. So the now we have the sequel, this is where I was starting to wonder if this was more meant for money. We have some pretty well known actors playing the chipmunks and the chipettes, which I thought was a bit silly since their voices are put through a synthesizer anyways, so what's the point of having a big name when you already have Jason Lee? This played just like a typical chipmunk episode and I wasn't that impressed with it. Not as bad as you'd think, but still this movie needed some major work, even if it is meant for the kids, which we know this was more for the fans.During the Chipmunks' benefit concert David is injured. Dave must recuperate and is forced to leave his aunt to look after the Chipmunks. Arrangements are also made for them to go to school. After another accident, the Chipmunks are left in the care of Toby. Meanwhile, Ian Hawke lives in the basement of JETT Records. Three singing female chipmunks, also known as the Chipettes, emerge and Ian hires them as plot to get back at the Chipmunks and revive his career. While at school, the Chipmunks are bullied by jocks and visit the principal's office. They discover that the principal is a huge fan and wants them to help raise money for the music program by participating in a contest. Meanwhile, when Ian receives his daily newspaper, he is shocked to find the Chipmunks on the front page. After he reads the story, he quickly sends the Chipettes to school. The Chipmunks and the Chipettes will compete against each other in the Battle of the Bands contest.So while the movie doesn't fall flat on it's face, it definitely was not needed. There are moments where I thought it was a little too silly and predictable, not to mention I'm confused how a high school girl finds a chipmunk to be hot? The jocks pick on the chipmunks which I thought was silly, I mean, really? Let's be serious, let's say that this is a real life situation and talking and singing chipmunks really exist, how could you possibly feel tough by picking on a chipmunk? But I do have to admit that the meeting between the chipmunks and the chipettes was pretty cute. The chipette's rendition of Single Ladies was pretty catchy. I had a couple of laughs with Ian trying to cover the concert when the girls back out. Like I said I think this was more meant for the kids than the adults and also of course more for the money, but I guess it's pretty harmless fun. Hard to hate this movie when the leading characters are singing chipmunks, they were awesome in the 80's and they're still pretty cool to this day. However I would recommend this movie more for the kids vs. the adults, at least the adults still have the cartoon with "Alvin, Simon, Theodore! Doo Doo, Doo Doo Doo Doo, Doo Doo, Doo Doo Doo Doo!". Well, you get the idea.5/10
I am such a fan of the first Neverending Story film, it's a film that I grew up with and have always loved, it was one of my first fairy tale films that had cool effects and a wonderful story. Even today, there is still something special about the film, when I saw the double feature of Neverending Story and Neverending Story 2: The Next Chapter, it was was ten dollars, so I figured to go ahead and get the DVD. One guaranteed good movie with a possibility of another good one, even if the title is a little contradicting, lol. So I watched the film finally today and I have to say that while this isn't certainly the worst film, it isn't the best and was pretty insulting to the first film, the story? Nice cover up on how if you read it twice, the story is a different one.Bastian's life really doesn't seem all that different since he finished the Neverendng Story, his life is still lonely with his busy work-aholic father and he has been rejected from the swim team, things are not looking up for him. He goes back to the antique book store and gets Neverending Story again. He finds out that the empress is in trouble and he needs to restore Fantasia once again and with the help of Atreyu, Falkor, and his rock buddy(who somehow has a kid, how do rocks have kids?), he hopes to pull it off. But that'll be difficult when the emptiness is taking over and all Bastain's wishes are causing him to loose his memory of his father and late mother.The Neverending Story Part 2 isn't a bad family film, but it's really cheesy. I was hoping they would've given them more money, because these costumes were really horrible, the bird? God, could it have been any more cheesy? Not to mention the effects, the fact they changed ALL the actors from the first film, it was just a little over the top and wasn't anything special. I would recommend just staying with the first Neverending Story movie, but this is worth a look as a family film, but I'm just too in love with the first film.4/10
21 is definitely the major film for the spring time, it has young hot actors, including an incredible academy award winner, Kevin Spacey, and another great actor who's head looks like it grew quite a bit bigger, Lawarence Fishburne. So it has all the key ingredients for a good movie, a decent plot, over all a good combination of actors, and looks like a well put together movie. So I saw it this weekend and I have to say that I was a little disappointed, I think this movie was more for the teenagers, with the actors and the rating, I think it should've been more adult. It was a typical rise and fall story with cliché'd characters. Kevin Spacey, seriously my favorite actor, he's always a dead on hit with every role he takes on, but he seemed to just sleep his way through the film and didn't really care about it. He and new and hot up-comer, Jim Sturgess were not a bad couple on screen, but were not strong enough to hold the story into something original.Basically we have Ben Campbell who needs $300,000 for Harvard Med. School, he's extremely gifted with numbers, so when his professor, Micky Rosa notices his gifts, he invites Ben with a group of his other students to go to Vegas and play 21. But there is a way to beat the game apparently, by counting cards. Ben promises up and down that it is just for school, but of course when he gets so hot, he takes it way further and ends up making a huge mistake and gets caught with some nasty security guards you don't wanna mess with.Now 21 has decent enough acting, the movie itself is decent, I didn't mind at all watching it. For the most part, it's the young group of students that keep the movie interesting and keeps your attention. My main problems are for example about the characters Ben and Jill hooking up, I seriously doubt that would happen for real, but for the movie, they want these two hotties to get together at least for the teenage audience's sake. Also supposedly the group says they have to stay on the down low in Vegas so they don't get caught, yet they go around Vegas buying all these new clothes, clubbing, drinking, etc. 21 is worth the watch, but to be honest, if you're reading this, wait for the rental, it's just a regular rise and fall story.6/10
It's that time again: Twilight! Ever since last year's release of the mega-successful movie Twilight, our lives have not been the same. With a new director on our hands, Chris Weitz, I actually had hopes for New Moon. Last year with all the screaming fans, Twilight has turned many off. It also made vampires into a joke, New Moon had potential to give the series some life. Unfortunately, we got trash. Not only vampires are a joke to this story, but these movies are a joke and an embarrassment to cinema. I'm trying to not be cruel, because I honestly feel so sorry for this cast, since they don't have much material to work with. For God's sake they have lines like "Your breathing is my gift", "You don't belong in my world", and "I couldn't live in a world without you existing". How could you work with soap opera lines like that? Not to mention, more than 80% of the film is 5 buff meaty guys in jean shorts, which I'm above those jokes, but I was expecting as they walked on screen "Gonna Make You Sweat" was going to play in the background. It seems like this was teenage porn for a while because every girl in the theater kept going crazy with Jacob's 6, no, 12 pack abs exposed. It seems like every chance the director got, he had to make the little girls happy by exploiting these young actors.The characters are another problem: Bella, Edward and Jacob. I've read the books, Bella never intrigued me. But while last film she was just flat, this film I wanted to kill her. She's 18, now granted I know that she'll probably never find another vampire boyfriend who's so creepy in love with her, but good God, does this girl need to get a gigantic grip on life. Edward leaves and even Hamlet would tell her to lighten up a bit. She goes into this coma state where she's just obsessed on why her vampire boyfriend doesn't want her. It's more sickening, a bad influence on young girls and pretty pathetic rather than sympathetic. Edward is introduced in this sequel with him walking in slow motion as if a rock star just came on the screen, more to just please the fans and give him an applause. He spends the whole movie pretty much saying how much he loves Bella, how he can't live without her, basically any pre-teen's wet dream that a guy will be that devoted when it's actually more so creepy. While Edward is Bella's boyfriend that sparkles, we have a sensitive werewolf, Jacob. I feel so sorry for him in this movie, Bella basically tags him along, starting to kiss him, but then pulling away, but then rubbing up against him, but then telling him he can't have her problems in his life, but then saying he's beautiful and she loves him. It's Bella's birthday, fearing her aging process she's having nightmares that she will grow old as Edward will stay young and beautiful. Alice and the other Cullens throw her a surprise birthday party; while opening a gift, Bella accidentally gets a paper cut. When the blood hit's the floor, Jasper goes into a violent state and tries to attack Bella, Edward stops him and saves Bella. After months of Bella begging Edward to change her, Carlisle explains why Edward does not want to take her mortal soul. Realizing the danger he's put her in, Edward has to break up with Bella. He tells her that he doesn't want her and that he and his family will never see her again. Bella goes into a coma practically, spending months inside her home and not seeing her friends. Realizing she could see Edward through adrenaline rushes, she convinces Jacob to fix a couple of motorcycles. As the months pass, her and Jacob grow closer as she starts to fall for him, but of course being Bella, he has a "monstrous" flaw, he's a werewolf. Bella accepts it as she tries to move on with her life, but Alice Cullen comes back saying she had a vision of Bella dying. After a misunderstanding, Edward thinks she's dead too and Alice tells Bella that Edward is about to sacrifice himself for her.To sum this review up, this movie was made for the fans, which MOSTLY consists of 12-15 year old girls and desperate housewives. I'm not looking to insult anyone here, but after reading the books and seeing these two movies, I feel like my IQ sunk a few points. They insult my intelligence and I will never understand why this story is appealing to anyone. Stephanie Meyer is a genius in some aspect: almost every girl in high school doesn't feel special or just average. How cool would it be to have someone who has lived centuries, who is gorgeous, smart, strong and kind who just thinks you're the ultimate catch? That's what sold these stories and I hate it because it makes these girls fantasize about a world that will never exist. These stories are old and over used and Twilight has overstayed it's welcome. The special effects were awful and the material was just lousy. To be kind to the film, the action sequences are a major improvement over the last film, much more exciting and intense. I could go on forever with this review, but I'm going to save some more of my rant for my friends. While I was very kind with the rating in the first Twilight, I understood it who it was meant for and took it for what it was. This is trash and could have had so much more potential. This movie was made for the fans, so if you're not one, there's a very good chance you're going to agree with everything I said in this review.2/10
I saw Caddyshack on Bravo's 100 Funniest Movies, and it was really up there in the top three. But when I asked my mom if she saw it, she said it was highly over rated, then I asked my movie buddy if she saw it, she also said that she found it over rated. But I decided to go ahead and check it out myself, just see if I would like it or not. I rented it and watched the movie last night, while I do agree that it is slightly over rated, I still thought that this was a funny comedy. For me, Rodney definitely brought life to the movie, without him, I think the movie would have just been average. I know some people find him annoying, but he was just so funny in this film, I loved his out fits and crazy love for life was just so great. Also Bill Murray, I don't see too many movies where he is more funny than obnoxious, but he and the gopher was just classic. Golfing is becoming the funniest sport ever.Danny and his co-workers are caddy's, they have a blast when they're on break. But Danny wants a life outside his family and city, so he is going for a scholarship where if he's a great caddy, he could win it. So he starts getting in with the big time golfers. He's slowly getting into their good graces. But he also meets the more lively golfers, who are less snobby and actually enjoy life. But they decide that the older and more stuffy golfers need to get their butts kicked and should leave the course, they're ready to party down with the sport.Caddyshack is really funny at times, like I said, I think the story that got me most was the battle between Bill Murray and the gopher, it was so stupid that it just went from dumb to funny. The gopher did look very fake and corny, but it's all good. I would recommend Caddyshack if you are looking for a few laughs, I did enjoy it. When it comes to top comedies, I'm still debating if this should've made the top three on Bravo's top funniest movies, but it's all good, it's other people's opinions. Just check it out for yourself and try not to think of those who over blow how funny it is.7/10
Last year when I saw the trailer for Welcome Home, Roscoe Jenkins, I wasn't expecting much, I'm not a fan by any means with Martin Lawrence. When I looked at the rating here on IMDb at the time of it's theatrical release, it was low, I wasn't sure if that's because people just had low expectations or if it really was that bad of a movie. So I decided to wait for the rental. Well I watched it the other day and honestly Welcome Home, Roscoe Jenkins is not as bad as I was expecting, I laughed more than a few times. I think the problem with it is that we have all seen this film before. The script is also semi-insulting with the stereotypes, so I can understand why a lot of people hate this movie, but I think everyone just needs to let go with this film while watching it. The story is typical but you have to admit there are some good laughs in it.Roscoe Jenkins is a very successful man, he's a host of a new talk show and author of a self help book, everyone loves him pretty much, including his Survivor wanna be star fiancée, Bianca. But when his son wants to go to his family's big BBQ reunion down in Atlanta, Roscoe decides that it's time for them to meet his new fiancée and life. But what Bianca is not expecting is his crazy family that will just drive them crazy. But Roscoe sees an old crush with his "brother like" enemy, Clyde, flames spark up again, questioning what Roscoe's true roots are.While Welcome Home, Roscoe Jenkins is typical, has some interesting cast members, and can be a bit insulting, I still feel like this movie really didn't mean to hurt anyone, just to have fun and deliver a few laughs. Like I said, just this movie has been done before so many times with the crazy family and you can predict what will happen at the end, but still, I enjoyed this movie and thought it was fun at best. Just the only thing I didn't get was how the whole family picked on him about his success, I mean, I'd get into his good graces to share some that fun money he must be rolling around in, lol. But I would recommend this movie, just you have to be open to it and just have fun, I guarantee you'll get a few good laughs.5/10
If you remember a little decade called "The '90's", you'll definitely remember that The X-Files was one of the biggest shows of that decade. The X-Files had so many different fans, I have to admit that I was a fan, not so much to the extent as many others were, but I enjoyed the show. However, I think because my friend rubbed it in my face so much of how much this show was the best television show to ever hit the air waves, I steered clear of the movie. But I was renting movies the other day and came across The X-Files, and figured to just give the movie a shot, it's been how many years since the show ended? But I watched it last night and I liked the movie. I think the only thing is, is this was a movie that was definitely made for the fans and no one else, because if you didn't watch the show, you won't get into the movie.Mulder and Scully are on the case again after they learn of a deadly "virus" that is killing off the planet. Of course the government is covering it up, making it seem like it's more of a terrorist or a horrible flu. Mulder wants to make the truth known, but Scully has just given up, that is until she is attacked by a bug carrying the virus and Mulder will not give up on her. He saves her, but she needs more strength if they are to make it out of this situation alive.The X-Files the movie is a cool sci fi film, if you are not a fan or didn't watch the series, there is a small chance you'll get into the film. But this was a definite treat for the fans, this is the film they wanted and as much as I hate this saying, The X-Files is just an extended episode with a bigger budget, but it's still a cool film. I liked it, Mulder and Scully always provide perfect entertainment and I just love Mulder going into his infamous speeches of "the truth is out there", so over dramatic, but you gotta love his passion in it. The X-Files is worth the look, it's a fun film and is cool sci-fi.7/10
Apparently, I'm not as smart as I'd like to think I am because I gave in and decided that if I'm going to sign up to see a movie like Jackass, I might as well see the sequel. Oh, do I feel sick saying this, I actually kind of liked the sequel. But it's like saying I prefer diabetes to cancer, it's not that dramatic of a difference. But how could I not laugh at some of these pranks? As stupid and insulting as they are, I did get a kick out of some of them. Who the heck would go for a water hose rodeo? Of course the members of Jackass. Who would come up with dressing up as an elderly lady with her blouse coming off and seeing the reactions of regular citizens? The members of Jackass. I just gave in and let go and I think I just had a good time with this Jackass sequel. If you can't beat them, join them, oh, boy I can't believe I just said that.I have to give these guys a little credit, their pranks can be a little clever. But I'd expect them to be with this sequel. You have to up the pranks, though I'd hate to see these guys on their kid's career days. I wonder how proud I would be to say that my daddy gets paid to come up with stunts like hit the bell and shove a vibrator up his behind. How do you join this family business? Do I even want to know? But granted, we're all young once, we all do stupid things and look back at how silly we were, just makes me wonder how old Johnny Knoxville will have to be to realize this.The only prank I found to go way too far was the terrorist prank. What's so funny about it? That we're making fun of a culture, race, tragedy, the fear of a nation or that someone could seriously get hurt in a situation like that? I just couldn't find it funny and I don't want to know the person who thinks that it's funny.But I did think other than the elderly woman with the open blouse was funny, Steve-O pretends he's bait and puts a hook through his cheek. It looks like they actually had a lot of fun with that one and I have to admit that I was laughing. Also when Wee Man sits on the electric chair and thinks that someone is throwing cards at him and that the cards are electrocuting him. While I still think that this is an insult to our intelligence and Jackass is an incredibly vile show, I give up, I let go and just decided to have fun with these gags. So believe me, this is as kind of a rating as I could give.4/10
When I was a little girl, my parents were hooked on the Conan movies, but The Destroyer always stood out to me more for some reason. But I haven't watched this movie for a very long time, so the other night, I was in a weird mood, I decided to watch the Conan movies. So The Destroyer was more familiar to me. But the thing is, this movie is a sort of break through for Arnold, since this movie was a flop at the box office, he doesn't like sequels, The Terminator being his only exception. So I was curious as an adult if this movie really was as bad as it's made out to be, I liked it a little bit when I was a kid, but when you're a kid, you're fascinated by anything. So watching this movie, as cheesy as it was, I still had a good time watching it. I understand why a lot of people have a distaste for it, it's definitely not up to par with the first Conan, it's more of a comedy vs. adventure. But I still enjoyed this movie, it's a good bad film that entertained me.Conan and his partner, Malek, are brought before Queen Taramis, who asks that Conan perform two tasks for her: obtain a special gem and retrieve the magic horn that can awaken the god, Dagoth. In exchange, she offers to resurrect Conan's dead lover, Valeria. Conan agrees. Conan, Malak, Jehnna, the queen's niece, and Bombaata set off on their journey. Along the way, Conan enlists the aid of his old comrade Akiro and the group later encounters Zula, who joins the party. They then set off after the magical horn, which is kept inside of a mysterious fortress. Jehnna retrieves the horn. After some difficulty from the cult residing in the fortress, they try to make their way back to Queen Taramis however, Bombaata betrays Conan and takes Jehnna, leaving the others to fight for their lives.The story is a bit much and it's not the same as the original, but if you give it a fair enough chance, I think you'll enjoy it too. It is a bit more comedic and steers away from the original story, but I think the comedy still made it fun. I loved the addition of Grace Jones, she was one tough chick and could stand proudly next to Conan; even if she did have a silly Japanese anime type of look to her hair in the end. I loved the costumes and the special effects and of course, Arnold. Conan is the part that he was meant to play and he carries the movie well with the other cast. Granted I know the direction isn't really good, it does have a more cheesy vibe as this was the same director for our favorite barbarian box office flop that was Red Sonja. There are a lot of plot holes and a script that could us a more than a few touch up's, but give the movie a fair enough chance, don't compare it to the original, on it's own, I'm sure you'll have a good time watching it.7/10
I wasn't really interested in seeing Step Up, but my friend just kept bugging and bugging me to see this film, especially since she is so in love with Channing Tatum, I tease her constantly about it saying how that's the only reason why she loved the movie. But she somehow convinced me that it was a movie worth seeing, that if I loved movies like Dirty Dancing, Take the Lead, and Save the Last Dance, that I should love Step Up, eh, what the heck? I guess every movie in some way has it's right to a view.Well, you know those movies I just mentioned up top? Dirty Dancing, Take the Lead, and Save the Last Dance? Well, put them in a blender with some gangsta love in it and that's what you have. Not to mention if you've seen those movies, well, frankly, you have seen Step Up. Because Channing is lower class with street smarts who just naturally feels the music while that snobby up class girl must follow step by step, how will they ever fall in love if they are so different? After all, this is their chance to "step up" to the passion, the mystery, and the lust of the dance! OK, that was a silly plot explanation, but like I said, as long as you've seen those movies I mentioned, or even if you just saw the plot, you get the movie. I don't understand how it actually has a 5.5 rating, I bet it's those Channing lovers! LOL! I'm kidding with you guys, but it's all good, I guess I just didn't get what others did with the passion, the mystery that is the dance! Oh, Antonio Bandares, where are you when we need you?! 4/10
The Fly is a movie I have just been dying to see, I have heard a lot about this movie, mainly the infamous "Help me! Help me!" scene. But of course the number one reason being that this is the original to the remake with Jeff Goldblum which is an incredible movie in itself, but I was curious what the original would be about. Honestly I was thinking that it was going to be very cheesy, it's a 1950's horror movie that would probably be over the top, but honestly, from the very beginning you get gore, which was odd, but sickly enough I love it! I am also a huge Vincent Price fan, this is the man of the classic B horror movies and his voice and presence make these movies worth the watch. So I finally got to see this on netflix, I absolutely loved The Fly. Is this better than the remake? Honestly, the remake is more realistic on what would happen if this really did occur, but don't overlook the original, as cheesy as a fly in a giant trench coat can be, it's all good and this story is tons of fun and really scary.A woman named Helene Delembre phones her brother-in-law, Francois Delambre to tell him that she has just murdered her husband. Francois calls in the police and she admits killing him but refuses to say why. Later, Francois tricks her into telling the story to him and Police Inspector Charas. A scientist, Andre Delambre, has invented a teleportation device. After a few failed attempts, he succeeds with living organisms, deciding to go for the ultimate risk and transport himself. The first time works, but, unknown to him, a fly enters the cabin with him and the two are hopelessly scrambled together. The scientist emerges as a half-man, half-fly, a human with a fly's head, leg and arm/claw. His wife finds out something is wrong as she now sees him with a cloth over his head and a hidden arm. He eventually tells his wife what has happened and she first sees his claw and screams, then later sees his fly head and screams more. His wife, son and maid try to find the "fly with a white head" and fail. The son had caught it just after the accident but had been made to let it go, before any of them knew what it was. Andre attempts to reverse the process to return himself to normal, but fails and when he realizes that his mind is being overtaken by that of the fly he asks his wife to end his suffering by killing him with a heavy machine press.The Fly is a fantastic and thrilling movie. I know that the ending sequence of "Help me! Help me!" was cheesy and over the top to some, but to me it was just plain creepy, it really scared me. The whole atmosphere of the film just felt uncomfortable and disturbing. Granted, I know these were not top of the line make up effects with the fly, I do have to laugh juts a little bit with seeing a fly in a trench coat. But still it was effective and made for a great sci-fi story. I love these old movies for a specific reason, this was the time when film meant something to the cast and crew making it and The Fly was made to give people the chills. It's just rare now-a-days, if this was made in today's world, it would be all gore and just stupid. So I do recommend that you see this film if you are looking for a good scare. Both this and the remake are terrific films and are a ton of fun to watch.8/10
Doubt, named one of the best films out of 2008, from the trailer I could tell this was going to be the "actor's movie" of the year for sure. We have power house actors, Meryl Streep, Philipe Seymour Hoffman and Amy Adams in the leading roles. I had to see this movie; based on the play, this is a story that remains as controversial today as back then when this screenplay was written. Not to mention the power of doubt, when you are so sure and you want to go with your instincts, but what if everyone around you just kept telling you that you should have doubt? Meryl Streep pulls in one of the best performances of the year as the tough and cocky principal that is so sure that the most loved priest of her school is something horrific.Sister Aloysius, the strict principal of the attached school, discusses a sermon with her fellow nuns. She asks if anyone has observed unusual behavior to give Father Flynn cause for preaching about doubt, and instructs them to keep their eyes open for any such behavior. Sister James, a young and naive teacher, observes the closeness between Father Flynn and Donald Miller, the school's only African-American student and an altar boy. One day during class, Sister James receives a call in her class asking for Donald Miller to meet Father Flynn in the rectory. When he returns, Donald is distraught and Sister James notices the smell of an alcoholic drink on his breath. On guard for unusual behavior, Sister James reveals her suspicions to Sister Aloysius. Sisters Aloysius and James confront Father Flynn with their suspicions that his relationship with Donald may be inappropriate. Several times, Father Flynn asks them to leave the matter alone as a private issue between the boy and himself but Sister Aloysius persists. The priest relents, revealing that Donald had been caught drinking altar wine. Initially, Sister James is relieved and convinced of Father Flynn's innocence, but Sister Aloysius' belief that he has behaved inappropriately with the boy is unshakable.The thing I love about this movie is the screenplay is it's style and human nature, this film captures the morals and ethics of our conscience, how certain we can be without having any proof. One of the performances I felt was a little overlooked was Amy Adams, playing this little naive nun who wants to just be in a happy world where nothing changes or could be bad. But Amy Adams is becoming more of a great actress every time I see her, she reminds me of old Hollywood, she's got a certain perk that she always brings to her role, she spectacular. But of course the great performance goes to big surprise, Meryl Streep, the woman who proves time and time again why she is one of the most critically acclaimed actresses of our time. She was absolutely brilliant and did a great job. Doubt is a good movie, it's an actor's movie like I suspected, because it's the performances that this movie that could have been dull, into a great strong story.7/10
I just saw 28 days, and I have heard so much about this film, it's insane. I've seen it on so many IMDb user's reviews and my sister was just talking about this film a few days ago. She mentioned that Steve Buchemi was in the film, so I figured that I would give this film a shot. While 28 Days was a pretty good film, it didn't quite capture me as well as Girl, Interrupted did. I guess because it seemed like the script writers were pointing us into two directions with some different situations and the ending just seemed to well, end.Basically, Gwen is an alcoholic that unfortunately has ruined her sister's wedding and gets into a bad car accident forcing her to either go to jail or rehab, she choose rehab, but realizes that it might be too cheesy for her to handle, so after some resistance, she finally realizes that it's now or never and just deals with it, but learns that she has good friends and is finally discovering who she truly is.Well, the plot with Gwen and Eddie just seemed to point us in different directions, while Eddie in some ways helped Gwen out, I don't think his character was absolutely needed. But it was kind of a nice touch with Gwen bumping into her friend at the plant shop, in some ways it was just so realistic and touching to see that one last smile. Over all though, I could honestly say that I would recommend this movie for a watch, but don't expect Oscar material.6/10
Four Christmases starring Reese Witherspoon and Vince Vaughn, I suppose I can accept it, just very strange seeing them as a couple on screen together. But anyways, every year we get a Chrismas movie, it's either going to be fun or really bad, sorry to say, but Four Christmases is nothing special, another year with an easy to forget movie. But still while this movie doesn't really stand out and it is incredibly predictable, there are some really fun moments. We at least finally have the split up family vs just one crazy family. Reese really turned on the charm and stole this movie, she was so adorable and she was great in the jump jump scene with the evil kids. Vince had some moments as well, but it's more the supporting cast that was just a fun addition to the story.When upscale, happily unmarried San Francisco couple Kate and Brad find themselves socked in by fog on Christmas morning, their exotic vacation plans morph into the family-centric holiday they had, until now, gleefully avoided. Out of obligation-and unable to escape-they trudge to not one, not two, but four relative-choked festivities, increasingly mortified to find childhood fears raised, adolescent wounds reopened...and their very future together uncertain. As Brad counts the hours to when he can get away from their parents, step-parents, siblings and an assortment of nieces and nephews, Kate is starting to hear the ticking of a different kind of clock. And by the end of the day, she is beginning to wonder if their crazy families' choices are not so crazy after all.I would recommend Four Christmases just if you wanna see a cute holiday movie in the theater this year. Vince and Reese had good chemistry and this movie just represents the craziness of having to go to all the families every year for Christmas. There are some really good laughs here and there, I loved the scene where Reese played the Virgin Mary and Vince was Joesph in their church play and Reese just gets stage fright and freezes while Vince just makes a fool of himself on stage. Over all this is a cute movie, there's nothing special about it, but it's worth the look.6/10
You wanna know something funny? Not even a year ago, early 2009, I was watching "The Directors" on the Reelz Channel and James Cameron was on. I was talking to my friend and saying how he is one of my favorite directors, he has an amazing track record of great movies, but wait, has he done anything since Titanic? I went on the net to check to see what he has done since Titanic and it says nothing but documentaries and he was working on a film called Avatar. I read a little about the movie and then a few months later came the trailer and I was just in awe. I was extremely curious to see this movie and couldn't wait as when we hear the name James Cameron, you can't help but expect nothing but greatness. The man is a perfectionist and it shows, he always goes above and beyond what he needs to do for a film and we got that with Avatar. My only complaint being like Titanic, the story not being the most original on the market, but I can't at all hate this movie. Originally wanting give this movie a 9 rating, I find myself thinking that I can't. This is one of the most visually beautiful movies I have ever seen in my life. My boyfriend and I saw this in 3D and I just couldn't take my eyes off the screen. James Cameron is back and I hope he never leaves Hollywood again as this was the breath of fresh air that we needed with Avatar.In 2154, the RDA corporation is mining Pandora, a lush, Earth-like moon of the planet Polyphemus, in the Alpha Centauri star system. Humans cannot survive exposure to Pandora's atmosphere for very long and use gas masks. In an attempt to improve relations with the natives, scientists create human-Na'vi hybrids called avatars, controlled by genetically-matched human operators. Jake Sully, a former marine, becomes a last-minute replacement for his murdered identical twin brother, a scientist trained to be an avatar operator. Dr. Grace Augustine, the head of the Avatar Program, considers Sully an inadequate replacement for his brother, and relegates him to a bodyguard role. Jake escorts Augustine and biologist Norm Spellman on an exploratory mission in their avatar forms to make contact with the Na'vi in order to help establish diplomatic relations, solve the problem of resources and end the threat of violence. The group is attacked by a predator, and Jake becomes separated and lost. Forced to survive the night in Pandora's dangerous jungles, he is rescued by Neytiri, a female Na'vi. Neytiri brings Jake to Hometree, which is inhabited by Neytiri's clan, the Omaticaya. Mo'at, the Na'vi shaman and Neytiri's mother, shows interest in the warrior "Dream-walker", and instructs her daughter to teach Jake their ways.I had another fellow IMDb user e-mail me a week ago asking me about my thoughts on the movie and he informed me that Cameron has been working on the story for years(many thanks to oldman007 for the info) and just now had the opportunity to work on it. I think that Cameron did a great thing by taking a break from movies as not only could he retire a good 25 times from the money he made on Titanic but we had an opportunity to appreciate him even more for Avatar. 2009 was kind of a lousy year for films and this was the movie that we needed to have that sigh of relief. From the actors, the special effects, the visuals, and the way the story is told was orchestrated like a perfect night at the theater with an standing ovation from the audience as everyone wanted more despite the 150 minute running time.I'm sure Avatar is sure to be in for the run during Oscar time, wither it gets a best picture nod or not, I'm not sure, but from what I've seen this does deserve every award it can get. I feel very bad if I'm over hyping the film too much for you, I don't want people to get the wrong idea that this is the Casablanca of the new millennium, but it really was just a relief that we still have potential in Hollywood to put out a great movie. Sigourney Weaver and Zoe Saldana stole the show and I think the reason being is because Cameron can make females very strong, beautiful, but doesn't over do it with his actresses and always knows what he wants from them and they deliver. Sam Worthington as the leading man, Jake, I was a bit worried as I saw Terminator: Salvation which was like spitting in James Cameron's face, he was the star in that film too and I thought he was going to just suck the life out of this film. Thankfully I was wrong and he pulled in a strong enough performance to carry the film with some incredible actors beside him. Avatar is very much worth the look on the big screen, it's a masterpiece.10/10
Well I have officially entered the mind of a lot of the children in this world, I am trying to understand what this generation's music and television are like. So I have watched Hannah Montana, The Jonas Brothers, and now High School Musical... frankly I've gone where no 23 year old girl should go, I feel as if I have taken some really bad drugs that no one should ever take. OK, I'm over reacting, but my cousin wanted me to watch the High School Musical movies, the first one wasn't really as bad as I was expecting, the sequel isn't really up to par, but honestly this wasn't as bad as the rating says it is. I admit that it is a pretty lame movie and has really cheesy songs, but take it for what it is. Just the title alone should say something considering that it takes place on the beach. This is the classic 60's beach musical with the cheesy looking actors and oh so dreamy cast members.Troy and Gabrielle are just looking forward to their summer together, but power hungry Sharpay wants Troy for herself and gets her country club to offer him a job, but he will only take it if his friends and Gabrielle can have a job too. Sharpay does whatever she can to make sure that she keeps Troy's mind off his friends and Gabrielle so she can make him enter the talent show with him so she can look good. Troy gets promoted and of course looses track of who he really is, leaving his friends behind wearing his new Italian loafers.High School Musical 2 is a must see of course if you are a fan of the movies, but they are very overly cheesy. The first high school musical film had reminded me of Grease, the sequel reminded me a little bit of Footloose, especially with Zac Effron's solo, but he is certainly no Kevin Bacon(even if that was a stunt Bacon in the dance moves). I probably won't watch this again, but the thing that is nice about these films is that as cheesy as they are, they're perfect for the kids, they need a musical as well, so these movies are perfect for them. They have fun songs that kids can dance too and just beautiful people, isn't it just wonderful? Sorry, had to say it, you know it's true with these movie covers.5/10
So this is it, one of the most beloved series of all time has come to a close. You know I was starting to wonder if summer blockbusters were just tired of having some kind of story, great acting and substance. Harry Potter changed all that, not to mention it was a breath of fresh air that kids wanted to read again. I did not read the books as Harry Potter wasn't the type of genre I would ever read but I did watch the movies to see what all the hype was about. I've always been very pleased with watching these movies, they're very satisfying, between the effects and the story and growing up with these actors, everything has just been great. The Deathly Hallows was split into two parts as it's a very long book and I'm sure they wanted to get in every detail for the fans. The last Harry Potter, while it was a good movie, it felt like it was a little boring at certain times for me. I haven't seen these films so close together and haven't read the books to know everything they are talking about so it was hard to keep up on certain parts. But this conclusion blew every one of the Harry Potter movies out of the water and had a great conclusion with a tear jerker ending.As Lord Voldemort retrieves the Elder Wand from Albus Dumbledore's grave, Severus Snape has become Hogwarts headmaster. After burying Dobby, Harry Potter speaks with the goblin Griphook about breaking into Bellatrix Lestrange's vault at Gringotts bank, suspecting that a Horcrux may be hidden there. Griphook agrees to take Harry, Ron, and Hermione to the vault in exchange for the Sword of Gryffindor. Harry asks Ollivander, a wandmaker, to identify two wands they took from Malfoy Manor. Ollivander says they belonged to Bellatrix and Draco Malfoy, but Malfoy's wand has changed its allegiance to Harry.In Bellatrix's vault, Harry discovers that the Horcrux is Helga Hufflepuff's Cup. He retrieves the Cup, but Griphook snatches the sword and abandons the trio, leaving them cornered by the alerted security. The three release the dragon guardian and flee on its back. Harry sees a vision of Voldemort killing goblins, including Griphook, and learns that the Dark Lord is aware of the theft. Harry also realizes there is a Horcrux at Hogwarts, in some way connected to Rowena Ravenclaw.My best friend and her boyfriend saw this opening night and I had asked her were there a bunch of fans crying and she said there were and I just laughed thinking how silly it was. However I ate my own words when I got a little teared up at the ending. I could only imagine for the fans who really grew up with this series. The special effects are out of this world and the show down between Voldemort and Harry was great. My only small complaint being is that Voldemort didn't seem as much of a presence in the film or as much a threat, only being argued by that maybe he's feeling that Harry is getting stronger so maybe he's not as cocky as he used to be. Alan Rickman, Emma Watson and Daniel Radcliffe did the outstanding performances. It's not even a question of wither I recommend this movie or not, of course if you're fan you've seen this movie already. If you're the average viewer, I think this series is worth getting into. But it's a strange thing to say there will never be another Harry Potter sequel againbut who knows with Hollywood? I'm sure they're having fun in the bank right now wondering how they could bring back the movies.10/10
I was so excited to have the opportunity to see Crank, I have heard nothing but great things about this movie all year, so when some friends and I watched it last night we were a bit confused by all the awesome ratings and reviews this film had. First off I can understand where the director was going with the way he made the film because of the fast pace the character was going through, he wanted us to feel that too, so that wasn't my problem. The plot was actually good, but I felt like it wasn't presented too well and the ending was a bit strange. The acting was OK, it just seemed like a bunch of guys... well... they were just being guys.Chev is a former hit man who has been poisoned by his former boss with a Chinese formula in which if he doesn't keep his blood going and his heart rate up, he will die. So in an attempt to keep his heart at a fast speed, he is going on a rampage through L.A. and trying to get to his former boss to get the antidote to cure him. Chev also needs to get to his stoner girlfriend, Eve, before she gets killed; but time is running out as he tries to keep his blood running and his adrenaline going.Like I said, this was an alright action film, I think it was just a little bit too much for me. I still don't understand a good rating here on IMDb because the plot was just a little too wacky, not to mention how many unbelievable situations there were. But I think we sometimes need those films that are a little crazy to believe, so it's all good. Well, I don't think I would see this film again, but to those who wanna see it, you're going to feel like you are on an acid trip.5/10
I really had no interest in seeing Premonition, the trailer in itself looked very confusing, but it was my friend's pick tonite, so her, me, and a few friends saw it and it pretty much lived up to our expectations. I mean, it was a little better, but the story just in some ways did not work and not to mention that the ending was a disappointment. Because I do not want to give any spoilers, I'm not going to give away anything, but there is a daughter who is injured in the movie and her injuries are a continuity problem throughout the film, like the first scene, but you'll see what I mean.Linda is a mother and wife, pretty typical days that usually involve taking the kids to school, working out, and cleaning house. She is also involved in a marriage that has lost it's spark, but unfortunately one day she finds out that he was killed in a car accident. But the next day, she wakes up and he's alive! Day by day, it changes where he is dead, then alive, then dead, then alive; but slowly she puts the pieces together by writing herself a day by day diary and finds out truly what happened.The acting was alright and the story just could have been better. The ending was a little off, you'll see what I mean. But the story just had some flaws that I couldn't get by, it was just an average thriller that you could figure out in the first hour if you are used to the "suspense thrillers". So, I would recommend you wait this one for a rental, it's nothing exciting, just an alright movie that you might enjoy at home.5/10
OK, I'm sorry, I know I'm a dork, but I couldn't help it with that lame attempt of a joke. Anyhoo, I rented the film Next the other day and watched it last night with my mom and it was pretty good until the ending. I mean, it was one of those typical "let's leave you hanging" type of films that I don't need more of in my life. Now while it was better than I expected, the special effects were cool and the story was decent, the cast also worked pretty well. But still the whole Jessica Biel and Nicholas Cage love story freaked me out, isn't he like 43 and Jessica's like 23? Isn't that just a smidge weird? Oh, well, that's Hollywood for you. Anyways, back to the film, Next over all was a decent film that is definitely worth a look, it's pure entertainment and flashy effects.Chris Johnson is a magician who can see the future two minutes in advance, of course certain people wanna take advantage of this. Like the FBI who needs his help to find a nuclear bomb in the middle of Los Angelas that could kill over 8 million people. But all Chris is worried about is finding a girl that he's been seeing in his mind, but he finally finds her at a diner, her name is Elizabeth, his possible future. But he may get her in trouble when the men who planted the bomb is after him and his new girl.Over all, Next is a good film, it's just very confusing in some moments, like Chris going back and forth from typical mentalist to guy who has a split mind. You'll see what I mean when you see the film. Julianne Moore was absolutely classic when she said so calmly to Nic Cage's character during the log rolling scene "You're just going to let me die?" I just loved that deliverance, it was so human like. In case you didn't note, that was saracasim. I'm sorry, I know this isn't a good comment, just had to get my complaints out. Well, just watch the movie if you want, it has entertainment and some moments were you just can't help but question what the writers were thinking.6/10
Finally! I saw Saw 3! I was scared I'd have to wait for the rental, but my boyfriend finally got up the courage and we saw the film last night and man, this movie was one heck of a film to get through. It was so so so so much gorier than the first two. I was flinching the whole way through this movie, especially the brain operation scene, gah! Nmgah! I can't even describe an English word for that scene. The contraptions are scarier and seeming more impossible to get out of in the third installment, and while we do have a main story, this Saw seemed more focused on grossing people out.The jigsaw killer is back, but the first three games seem impossible to get out of and ends up killing everyone. We find out that the jigsaw killer is also very sick with a brain tumor and Amanda kidnaps a doctor with a troubled marriage and family, she has a contraption on her head, in order for her to live, she has to keep the jigsaw killer alive. In the mean time, there is a game going on in the same building with a man who has sworn vengeance on anyone who hurts his family, including the death of his son and to kill the man who ran him over.The story was an average contender considering how well put together the first Saw was, it was good, just didn't thrill me as much as the first or second one did. It just seemed like the sequels were more based on grossing people out though, but I can guarantee you though that Saw III has more gore! That was for sure, but the ending is a good one as you figure out another jigsaw puzzle, I smell another sequel!6/10
I couldn't wait to see Shrek the Third, especially since I have such a great love for the second Shrek, I'm just in love with Puss in Boots. But, the trailer looked great and the stories have worked so far, my mom and I saw the premier show today and while the movie has great laughs, there seemed to be something lacking in the Shrek world. I think the characters didn't seem to click as well as they did in the first two. Shrek the Third has the return of the whole cast, including the new heir to the thrown, Arthur.Shrek and Fiona have a problem, Fiona's father, the frog King of Far Far Away, has passed away and now it's up to Shrek to take the crown. But Shrek is too scared to step up and looks to the next man in line, well, actually a teenage, Arthur. Shrek, Puss, and Donkey go to find Artie, but there is one more problem going on, Prince Charming wants his kingdom of Far Far Away back like it was promised to him and he will go through anything to get it back. Fionna and the other princesses are kidnapped while Shrek's life is in danger and they must all pull together to save him in time for Arthur to take over the kingdom.Shrek the Third has great jokes, terrific animation, and lovable characters, especially the character, Merlin, he was just a terrific spoof. But the characters seemed to be lacking the same chemistry as they did in the first two films. I would recommend Shrek the Third, it's a good movie for the family and for a summer movie, because I do guarantee a fun time. I don't know if everyone will agree, but so far I know a few people know that there is something lacking from the world of Shrek.7/10
I was really looking forward to seeing My Own Private Idaho, it has nothing but great reviews from what I've read and heard, not to mention how killer River Phoenix's performance is. So I finally got the opportunity to see it and this movie was definitely interesting and not what I expected. This film felt like a poem, also like a play, a modern day Shakespeare if you will. Keanu Reeves, once again, someone who I always thought couldn't have talent if it hit him in the face actually pulls in a decent performance and carries this film well with River. Their chemistry is pretty on key with each other throughout the film and River's performance was definitely memorable. The way this film told the story was also unique and interesting, this isn't your typical drama, it has an independent movie feel and pulls itself together very well with some clever editing and great performances.Mike is a young man who is looking for his mother, he is searching all over Portland, he makes his means by selling his body to women and men. His upper class friend, Scott, decides to help him out with finding his mother, but Scott has sworn that he will one day reject his rebellious ways towards his father. Mike falls in love with Scott, but Scott doesn't respond and ends up finding another woman on their trip that takes them as far as to Italy to find Mike's mother. Scott finally feels like it's time to grow up and move on, but Mike will not give up on his strange lifestyle.My Own Private Idaho wasn't what I expected, it was a lot stranger than what I was looking for. I thought it was just supposed to be like an American Beauty in the drama sense, but instead, it's made like a poem, also it's presented beautifully. I really did feel sad watching River though, his performance is so wonderful and it was such a tragic turn that he had to leave this Earth so early, his talent shined in My Own Private Idaho. I do recommend it for the drama lovers, but it's definitely an acquired taste, as much as I enjoyed it, this is not a film I could really watch again to be honest.7/10
2009 wasn't exactly the best year for movies, but out of that year we did get a comedy that will last for years to come, The Hangover. When I heard that there was going to be a sequel, I was telling my friends that I had a feeling that this was being made for the money. After all, The Hangover made over 200 million dollars world wide, they are going to milk it for everything that it's worth. Plus what made the first Hangover so great was that as crazy as their night was and outrageous, in some strange way it was believable where we've been so drunk we couldn't remember the night before and somehow did the most insane things. How is this supposed to happen again and be believable? But I loved the first Hangover so much that I went into this just hoping it was going to be a good time and sadly, it was exactly as I feared, this was made for money because it was nothing but copy and paste.Phil, Alan and Doug travel to Thailand for Stu's wedding, but after their escapade in Las Vegas, Stu has opted for a safe, subdued pre-wedding brunch. They go to Thailand with Allen as well, when Stud did not want to invite him due to the previous events. They all look to have one drink on the beach, however, things do not go as planned after they lose the 16-year-old brother of Stu's fiancée and somehow wake up in Bangkok. Now they must go through the whole mystery again of trying to find their missing friend, but everyone they meet tells them that "Bangkok has him now".See, the thing is, I did laugh a couple times, I will admit that. But the beginning and ending verbatim is the exact same thing first Hangover. A lot of the jokes are the exact same thing as the first film, the monkey was the replacement for the tiger, the silent monk was a replacement for the baby, the brother was a replacement for Doug, Paul Giamatti was a replacement for Leslie Chow, Stu's girlfriend's attitude problem from the first film is now his future father in law's attitude problem, you get the idea. Leslie Chow becomes more of a main character in this movie which I felt was another problem, as I mentioned in my review of the first film, even though he was funny he was the only thing about The Hangover that I felt was a little too over the top. He did make me laugh still, but again, it's more of the same. Also I don't know why but it seems since Stu had such an awful girlfriend in the first Hangover, they felt they had to go to the extreme opposite and give him a girl that not only looks 20 years younger than him but also is the perfect girlfriend who doesn't question anything and thinks Stu is the best man in the world.I really wanted this to be an excellent film, I was so looking forward to having a good laugh, but when it's the exact same thing as the first film, how could you enjoy it? There are no surprises and the magic is gone. They made Allen into a mean character that is totally unbelievable, Stu is over the top in being a sissy and Phil is now there just to be the pretty boy and I really wish they had used Doug more in this one since we didn't get to see him in the first Hangover much, he seems like a great character. Seriously, skip it, this is not worth your time or money, the first Hangover is a classic. If they make a third one, make the girls have the hangover or bring a new group in because the story is just done. This was lazy and pathetic and I want my money back.4/10
No, I have not read the Cirque du Freak stories, I'm just going to get that out in the open. From what I understand, a lot of the fans of the series were very upset with the film and that it wasn't true to the books, so honestly I'm glad that I haven't read them or will read them after seeing the film. Just so I don't complain as much and could enjoy the movie. But I love John C. Reilly, I wish the guy would get more recognizable work, he has a lot of talent and always brings so much to a performance. So I was looking forward to The Vampire's Assistant, even if it is in the midst of "vampire mania", I'd rather watch this rather than Twilight. So I rented this tonite, watched it and over all, it was an alright film. It had some funny moments here and there and the story pretty much worked. But it's one of the films where I've seen it once and I'm happy with seeing it just the one time. Chris Massoglia was the problem I think, he didn't have much chemistry with John C. Reilly and didn't tell the story so well.16 year old Darren and best friend Steve go to a traveling freak show, Steve recognizes one of the performers as a vampire. Steve goes to the vampire Larten Crepsley and tries to convince him to make Steve into a vampire. Crepsley refuses, and Steve swears to kill the vampire and leaves. Darren, who is hiding in the cupboard after stealing Crepsley's spider, hears the whole thing. The next day at school, Darren has hidden the spider in his locker, as Steve tries to take a look at Madam Octa, she escapes and bites him. Darren goes to Crepsley to ask for the antidote. Crepsley tells Darren that if another freak, Mr. Tiny wants him then he'll end up dead or worse, but by becoming a half vampire he will be safer. Darren agrees when Crepsley says he will save Steve on condition he agrees to change. Darren is then blooded. They administer the antidote to Steve, after which Darren sounds the hospital alarm forcing Crepsley to leave without him. Darren nearly feeds on his sister and realizes he can't stay around his family he agrees to leave with Crepsley, to the Cirque du Freak.Chris Massoglia was just a little too flat for me. John C. Reilly did alright, the star that I would say shined through was Josh Hutcherson who played Steve. His scene with John where he was asking to become a vampire was pretty intense and he had better chemistry with John I'd say. But the film does have some entertaining scenes, seeing how Darren was trying to fit in with all these freaks that he would've never paid an ounce of attention too just a week prior was pretty fun. Also loved seeing Crepsley trying to protect Darren from the villains of our story, it seemed like he would hurt Darren more than protect him. The effects were decent enough, I did like the scene with John performing with the spider, it was impressive. Selma Hayek as the bearded lady was also pretty cool, the beard growing looked pretty flawless. So I would say that I'm glad I waited for the rental, like I said, it's one of those movies that you see once and can be fine with that. I was a pretty cool story and has some laughs here and there, but unfortunately doesn't stand out as nothing special.6/10
Ironic title as this is Judd Apatow's darkest film to date, but very possibly his best at that. He proves to be more than just a comedic writer/director but also a very serious one. Showing how comedians/celebrities are human as well, he takes one of the actors I hate most, Adam Sandler and puts in Sandler's best performance of his career. Seth Rogan has also come a very long way pulling in his strongest performance. Apatow chose well with this cast, though his typical group, it seems like everyone fit so well into their roles. Rogan and Sandler had absolute great chemistry and proves it with several scenes one including where Sandler jokes about asking Rogan to put him out of his misery for fifty thousand dollars, Rogan pauses and says he needs time to think about it as Sandler screams back and asks what he would do for a hundred thousand dollars. Leslie Mann also comes in with her great performance along with Eric Bana as her husband, extremely real characters and not clichéd in this very dark tale about the realism of life and how it doesn't stop for celebrities.George Simmons is an extremely successful comedian and actor. But he is very self-absorbed, lonely and estranged from his family by choice. He is subsequently diagnosed with a deadly form of leukemia and is told that traditional treatments would be unlikely to benefit him. He decides to return to his roots and do stand-up comedy. Ira Wright is an aspiring stand-up comedian who dreams of quitting his day job. George and Ira meet at a comedy club; George calls Ira the next morning asking him to write jokes for him. George hires Ira as an assistant and informs him of his condition. Eventually, Ira breaks down, begging George to tell people about his illness. While in the process of telling his friends, George is visited by his ex-girlfriend, Laura who he excessively cheated on. Laura says that her husband, Clarke, is cheating on her as well while he's away on business. She regrets leaving George and they George sees the opportunity as getting his one true love back.I had reservations for this movie because a lot of people told me it was extremely dark and it is, but it really impressed me how realistic it was. Apatow wrote this screenplay beautifully and made these characters so dimensional. Even Adam Sandler who plays a total jerk in the film actually makes you feel for him. The scene between Rogan and Sandler where Rogan just starts to break down crying and begging Sandler to meet with people from his past broke my heart because you know where they're both coming from as Rogan just cares for Sandler and Sandler is teasing Rogan about crying. I also liked that the story didn't take typical direction with Sandler and Mann, it was very real and complicated. Even Eric Bana's character who isn't really likable at first turns out to have more dimension and once again very relatable. My only complaint being is that the film is a bit too long, it does drag on a bit. If edited, this would have been a perfect film. But I totally recommend it, it's a great film and a fantastic heart breaking story bringing in some of the strongest performances of these actors and makes me have a new found respect for most of them.8/10
I was very excited about seeing Bad Boys, I just decided that I wanted to see the movies because I love Will Smith and I noticed that over all, most people seem to like this movie. My only thing that was holding me back from seeing this film was Martin Lawerence. For the most part, he annoys me and it seems like he has the same part in every movie, but I have to admit, I could tolerate him during this film.Marcus and Mike are two partner cops on the force together, they have been friends for a long time, Marcus is a married family man and Mike is still living up his one night stands. The boys are assigned to a missing dope case that turns into murder and helping the only witness, Julie, survive. Marcus takes the role as playing Mike to make sure that his family is safe, but you can guess how this story is going to turn out from here.Bad Boys was a pretty good buddy cop film, but it could have been funnier. Still, it was more original than most buddy cop films, considering that at least these bad boys had been friends for a long time. I would recommend Bad Boys for action movie lovers, it's worth a good watch, otherwise, it's an OK film for any average film fan.6/10
A little over a month ago, I saw Wild Wild West at Target for $4.50, I heard horrible things about the film, but I figured, it's the rental price, sometimes these movies are not as bad as most say. So I went ahead and bought it, my mistake, I watched it tonite and wasn't really impressed. I mean, while it's a little better than what most would say, it does fall flat with too many fancy effects and Will Smith almost has a love affair with himself in this film. Now Will Smith is one of those rare actors that you can tell on screen as well as off that he has a huge ego, but everyone still loves him because he has a charm and such a presence on screen, he's easy to forgive. However, even though I am not a fan of The Matrix, he turned down The Matrix for this?! What the heck was he thinking? This movie was just very average and held nothing special.Jim West is a war hero who is just loving life as it's loving him right back, he's pretty much won everything he's been handed. Artemus Gordon is a master of disguise and a genius, so when an evil master mind, Loveless, threatens to take over, President Grant partners Artemus and Jim together who of course at first have no chemistry and have to capture Loveless. When a can can girl comes into play, who wants to save "her father", she helps them track down Loveless and they must come up with a clever idea to defeat him.Now, Wild Wild West isn't a bad film, it's just made a little strange. Like the cast, Will Smith may be charming, but this movie, he comes off more of a jerk than a smooth cowboy. Selma Hayek, beautiful girl, strange role to take on, the accent was a little distracting I'd say, not to mention I wasn't really impressed with the "acting qualities" she has. Now, for a family film, this isn't a bad idea, it's cute in some moments and funny in others, but for a film on entertainment that you're just looking for a good time? I wouldn't really recommend it.3/10
Oh, thank God! I just have to say something to get off my back and I choose to share with my fellow users here on IMDb, so bare with me for a minute, I've always had a guilty pleasure for vampires. Ever since I was a little girl, I found them to be fascinating monsters, reason being because they were human and still act it but can live forever and turn others like them. It's a romantic monster that's fascinated and intrigued many. So naturally, I love vampire movies, always have, from The Lost Boys to Interview with the Vampire, from Dracula to John Carpenter's Vampires, from Buffy the Vampire Slayer to Blade, you name it, I've seen it probably. I am a huge fan of the TV series both Buffy and True Blood because they were clever, well written series with great actors. Then, SIGH, Twilight *shudder!!!*. One of the girls I work with was talking about horror movies and I mentioned The Lost Boys and she said "Oh, you're into that vampire trend?", I can't tell you, it's like someone calling an Kiwi(New Zealand) an Aussie. I was so insulted, I've always loved vampire stories and Twilight has made them into a complete and total joke.So when I saw the trailer for Daybreakers, I was like "Oh, my God! They're actually vampires?". We needed a good vampire story where not only are the vampires actual monsters, but are competent monsters as well. So I begged my boyfriend to take me to see this movie and we left the theater satisfied and with a smile. Daybreakers is something that we've been needing as not only is a good horror movie, but a great story. What if vampires existed and took over the world? A different form of True Blood mixed with today's economic crisis with the vampires running out of blood and going into total chaos just as our world is. Daybreakers offers so much to the table and leaves you wanting even more after the movie is done.In the year 2019, a plague has transformed much of the world's population into vampires. Edward is employed by Bromley Marks, a pharmaceutical company that is the chief supplier of blood for the American population, which is operated by Charles Bromley. As the human population nears extinction, vampires must capture and farm every remaining human for their blood, or find a blood substitute before time runs out. When deprived of blood for extended periods of time, vampires lose their human-like characteristics and begin to transform into winged bat-like monsters those of which have diminished mental capacity and no ability to speak are driven strictly by their impulse to feed. However, a covert group of humans makes a remarkable discovery, one which has the power to save the human race. Audrey, the human's leader, brings Edward in on the secret: there is a cure to vampirism.Picking great actors as I'm surprised that Ethan Hawke pulls in a great performance as well as the always great villain that is Sam Neil, we have a very strong movie and I was more than pleased with the way this turned out. Another reason it's awesome? William Dafoe! Need I say more? He's just one of my favorite little secrets of Hollywood, taking on supporting roles but always bringing in a top performance. Only 2 other actors hold that honor with me; if you're curious my other 2 choices are Kurt Russell and Gary Oldman. My only complaint being that I wished they showed more of what the world was like with the vampires taking over. We only stuck to one city, so I wish we could've explored a little more. But I thought it was very clever with the coffee mixture with the blood as I felt we are watching regular people on the screen, but they have fangs, lol. Daybreakers brought in exactly what we needed, horror but a good script. I'm more than happy with what I got and would very much recommend this movie to anyone who needs that same relief from Twilight fever.9/10
When the first Sherlock Holmes came onto the big screen, I couldn't have been more excited. I love Sherlock Holmes and missed the old mystery movies, so I naturally saw that movie on opening night and was so disappointed. The pacing wasn't good and the characters were pretty lame besides Holmes and Watson. When I saw the trailer to Sherlock Holmes: A Game of Shadows I looked at my fiancé and commented on how the first film wasn't exciting and did it really need a sequel? But much to my surprise Sherlock Holmes made number one over the weekend and stayed at number one for two weeks. When I went to work, people who saw the film said they absolutely loved it and it was a really good movie. So I gave in deciding that maybe the sequel listened to the complaints of the first movie and fixed them and over all it worked a lot better the second time around, thankfully they got rid of Rachel McAdams' character so we don't have to deal with her annoyance. But our favorite duo Holmes and Watson are back working the cases with a few new faces.Irene Adler delivers a package to Dr. Hoffmanstahl, Hoffmanstahl opens the package, triggering a hidden bomb which is prevented from detonating by the intervention of Sherlock Holmes. Holmes takes the letter and disposes of the bomb while Adler and Hoffmanstahl escape. Holmes later finds Hoffmanstahl assassinated. Some time later, Dr. Watson where Holmes discloses that he is investigating a series of seemingly unrelated murders, terrorist attacks, and business acquisitions, that he has connected to Moriarty. Holmes meets with the gypsy Simza, the intended recipient of the letter he had taken from Adler, sent by her brother Rene. Holmes defeats an assassin sent to kill Simza, but she flees before Holmes can interrogate her. Now Watson and Holmes must find the next series of bombs and prevent another assassination from happening.I have two complaints, one being that the plot is a little complicated at times. Why not make it a little kid friendly as I loved these stories when I was a child, so why not have a new generation introduced to one of literature's greatest characters? Also that while Downey is certainly having a lot more fun with playing Holmes, he's getting a little irritating as he just won't cut Watson any slack on his honeymoon. But the special effects I must say were astonishing and the running in the woods while being shot in scene was visually a treat. The acting is very good and it was fun seeing how Holmes liked to play games with Watson. I would say this film was a lot better than the first Sherlock Holmes, this had a lot more tension and was much more better paced. It could've been a little shorter and simpler, but things that I'm willing to look past very quickly. I would recommend this movie, the first one was a bore, this one won't disappoint. There are great laughs, fun action and a tricky plot that never lets you go and keeps you guessing as well as a terrific ending that I won't give away, you'll just have to see for yourself.7/10
I was watching Ebert and Roper the other day on TV and they were discussing 2008's movies and how over all they have been disappointed, I think we all have. But they did discuss the top movies to see and The Bank Job was in their top three, I finally found a theater that was still playing the movie, I saw it today and I have to say that I really loved this heist movie. It's definitely one of the better heist movies in a very long time because it brings something different to the table, this isn't a movie about the heist, it's the aftermath of the heist. We are always usually left wondering if the robbers got away with the heist afterwords in movies. Now this movie is based on a true story, it's based in the 1970's(bonus it doesn't remind you every 10 minutes) and it's about just amateur robbers that pulled off one of the largest heists in England's history with finding corrupt cops and ending badly.Martine Love approaches Terry Leather, an amateur thief and long time friend. She offers information to get into one of the biggest heists they could hit, the ability to break into a vault. Terry and his group successfully break into the vault and takes four million pounds, including jewelery, cash, bonds, and some extremely private and damaging photos of the mobsters and government of England. When the group just about gets away with it, things go terribly wrong when one of the members are captured and they found out there was an alterer motive to this heist.The Bank Job has great acting, terrific editing, and is just a great thriller that truly keeps your attention. Jason Statham, this guy has never really stood out to me as someone who could be a good actor, most of his movies could never display what he could do, but The Bank Job is without a doubt his finest role to date that I'm aware of, he pulls the part off well and makes the story more real. The Bank Job has great drama and action, it's a great movie that I'm really glad I saw, a big recommendation if you're looking for a good movie to watch.9/10
Let me say something, I love mirrors, aren't they just wonderful at times? I mean, when you're looking hot, you just can't stop starring at yourself, it's a great pleasure. But what if those mirrors contained ghosts?! Not only that, but killing deadly ghosts! Oh, no! Great, we have another horror movie that takes the most simple and basic every day item we use and turns it into a scary thing and now we can't look into the mirrors because if you're easily scarable, then you're going to have a few bad hair days. Mirrors is another Asian remake, from a film I believe is called "Look into the Mirror" or something like that. This was one of the rare movies where I looked at the trailer, besides knowing that it was another remake, it looked interesting, so I saw it today in the theater, unfortunately, it turned typical, great story, but why did it have to get predictable? It could have been so much more.Ben Carson is a former NYPD cop who had an accidental shooting, he's also a recovering alcoholic who is trying to get his life back on track and wants his family back. He gets a job working at a burned down department store as a security guard. But then as he looks into the mirrors, strange things start to happen, he starts seeing things in the mirrors of people burning, him dying, and now the spirits are going after his family. The only way he can prevent their deaths is if he gives the spirits what they want, the only person they can jump into and get into the outer world.Mirrors is better than most Asian remakes, it does have some good scare moments, it has actual gore in it that will make you cringe. Amy Smart has an awesome death scene that is just horrific to watch, you'll just have to see what I mean. The ending is also kind of cool, like a Twilight Zone episode. I love Kiefer Sutherland, I love this guy with a passion, he's a great actor that still needs his big due on the silver screen, but he should have done a little more with his character in this story. One thing I'm sick of is a sane rational person starts to see ghosts, and they start screaming at people expecting them to believe as well how they're seeing ghosts and that someone is in danger. Mirrors is worth the look, I'd just recommend waiting for the rental, it's a watchable movie, just nothing special.5/10
Eight years later after Dent's death and Batman's retirement, Gotham City is in a state of peace. Under powers granted by the Dent Act, Commissioner Gordon has nearly eradicated violent and organized crime. However, he still feels guilty about the cover-up of Harvey Dent's crimes. He plans to admit to the conspiracy, but decides that the city is not ready to hear the truth, but his speech is stolen by terrorist leader Bane. Gordon is shot in the process, and he promotes patrol officer John Blake to detective, allowing Blake to report directly to him. As Batman has disappeared from Gotham City, so too has Bruce Wayne, locking himself inside Wayne Manor. Both Gordon and Blake implore Bruce to return as Batman. Bruce decides the time is right, but realizes that Bane may be his match and breaks Batman. Bruce needs to retrain and save Gotham from Bane who is planning on going out with a bang. With the help of a Robin Hood like friend, Selena Kyle, Bruce will show that justice can prevail.The conclusion to the epic trilogy is complete now with The Dark Knight Rises. I don't think anyone could've expected anyone to save the Batman series the way Christopher Nolan did. Taking a darker and deeper look into the best super hero of all time, he created this whole world where it actually seemed possible for all this to happen. That there are people who could dress like bats to stop the bad guys and villains who dress up and almost destroy the world. Batman Begins was a very good movie, The Dark Knight is a masterpiece, but The Dark Knight Rises falls just a notch short of what I was expecting. The Dark Knight delivers in terrific performances, a great story and excellent cinematography. We have a great villain done right with Bane. Unfortunately with the nightmare that was Batman & Robin, Bane was made into a weird deaf mute which had nothing to do with the comics. Nolan didn't just write Bane well, but he made him very terrifying adding a cold demeanor with the slick intelligence of Hannibal Lector. But the one who steals the show is Anne Hathaway as Selina Kyle(who is never mentioned as Catwoman), but her character is written so well and Anne pulls in a great performance, one of her best. I wanted to see more of her on the screen. Also Joseph Gordon-Levitt, who is becoming one of my favorite actors, pulls in a great performance and in a twist that I kept screaming with his character was pulled in very well in the end. I liked having this Howard Hughes affect with Bruce Wayne in the beginning, having a good continue from the end of the Dark Knight where he takes a nasty fall with Dent and was limping. It was good to be put back into place where we forget that Bruce is human, he will hurt. In this film, he's broke: financially, mentally and physically and this is all about how he comes back into his own groove as Batman completing his story.While the film is very good, it falls short of being great. While I liked the subtext of what's going on with Wall Street and how Selina is like Robin Hood, stealing from the rich to help herself and others, it didn't really fit that well with the story with the stock market effect. Tom Hardy pulls in a terrific performance as Bane, but for some reason he's actually not that memorable. I think he lacks that pinch of charisma that Heath had to make the Joker one of the best movie villains of all time. Plus, I wasn't a big fan of his voice, about 40% of his dialog I couldn't understand because it was a bit muffled. Also I wasn't a fan of his voice in general, it didn't fit well with the power he had. Maybe it was because his face was covered, he couldn't get the performance that could've been Oscar worthy. Also the film does feel a bit dragged out, the first 2/3's of the film feels like more talk vs. action and not much Batman. I wish also that there was a feeling of fun, because the story is almost too dark at times. Batman could've had some more juicy dialog that was more replaced by Selina. I also didn't like that they had to make her a love interest in the end, Selina's character on her own was perfect and it feels like a last minute cliché that just gets thrown in for an applause. There are a few inconsistencies with the story that I don't want to give away, but the ending leaves a lot of questions.But please, don't take the negative comments I have wrong, this is a very good film and worth seeing in the theater at the full ticket price. The effects are terrific and all the performances are magnificent and the world is just awesome to look at as Bane is just playing with it like his own sand box. The ending is one of the best I've seen and a great climax to a wonderful trilogy. That fight with Bane and Batman was too awesome and seeing Gotham fight back for their city was great. It's sad to see Nolan's era of Batman end, but good to know that there was a man who actually was able to bring it back to life.8/10
I'm one lucky girl, I rented all three Back to the Future films, so I could watch them all in a row, I didn't have to wait year after year, well I was kinda born in 1985, so it's all good. But anyways, I just saw the Back to the Future trilogy tonite and after it seeming like I was the only person who didn't see these movies, I did it! Part two was a very good sequel, while it isn't quite up to par with the first Back to the Future, it was cool, it was kinda like Deja Vu with a different story that worked.Marty and Jennifer start off where the first left off, Doc takes them to the year 2015(which is funny that it is only 8 years away), and Doc tells Marty to fix a situation with his future son. Biff overhears an idea later brought up to Doc about possibly giving himself tips to win big money for the future as soon as they go back, but Doc talks him out of it, but Biff has different plans and takes the book and the De Lauren and goes back to 1955 and makes himself the richest man alive in 1985, so Marty and The Doc must go back and alter the future back to it's old ways.Part two is definitely worth a look for those Back to the Future fans, not to mention, it's just good to see where these stories go. Like I said, it's not as good as the first, but it is a good movie and actually a little better than a 7.1, if you ask me. But that's just me, so just give this movie a chance, you just might find yourself enjoying it.9/10
A few months ago I saw the trailer to There Will Be Blood, at first I was a little put off, it looked very strange and a typical drawn out drama. But then a little later, I saw a different trailer that was much better and looked more interesting. So now it had all this hype and is now nominated for 7 Oscars, including best picture, finally it came to theaters in my home town and my mom and I just saw it. Now, I'm just going to get a complaint out, I think this movie was still a little drawn out, it kind of took on a Kubrick type of feel with the first twenty minutes that had no dialog. But that was the only thing that threw me off. While I'm not as in love with this movie as much as everyone else is, There Will be Blood is going to be a sure classic down the line. The direction, the acting, the script, the sets, everything about this film was done beautifully and shows the utter greed and madness that can turn men into monsters.Daniel Plainview is an oil man, he's in the business with his son, H.W., and he goes around buying land very cheaply, and makes thousands and thousands of dollars when he strikes oil. But when he comes a town called Little Boston led by the tip of a boy named Paul, he buys the land promising the church that he will donate five thousand dollars to it. Eli, the leader of the church, claims he is a prophet and goes to the extreme to prove so with his followers. When Daniel's team is draining oil, his son is blasted away from an explosion of oil and looses his hearing, Daniel at this point just goes mad and meets a man who claims to be his brother, but he later finds out that this man lied to him. He abandons his son and is loosing all sanity, but when the church comes back to him, he claims he is saved. Years later though, he goes from business man to monster and is going to "drink Eli's milk shake", you'll see what I mean when you see the film.There Will Be Blood is a film of utter perfection, the reason why I'm rating it so high is because it is a perfectly made film. There's nothing wrong with it, when I said it's a little drawn out, it's just my opinion. But Daniel Day Lewis pulls in a flawless performance and became Daniel Plainview, especially the end, he pulled in such a chilling side and didn't over do the dialog, which I'm sure any other actor would have done. But one performance I am particularly impressed with is Paul Dano's as Eli/Paul, Eli really got to me and was incredible during his sermons, he held his own up to Lewis. He's come a long way since the silent rebel in Litte Miss Sunshine. There Will Be Blood is a GOOD movie, I mean good in the highest regards, because how many of us can say when a film is just utterly good? Not too often. There Will Be Blood is going to be a good contender this year for the Oscars, but we'll just have to see who'll take the best picture award, because we have some good films that are competing.10/10
This is Snow White's year, I'm not sure why, but we've had two theatrical movies released about the classic tale: Mirror Mirror(which was considered a bomb) and Snow White and the Huntsman. Snow White and the Huntsman obviously got the better advertisement, looking much darker and having a more popular cast. I didn't see Mirror Mirror, but I have to admit that when I saw the trailer for Snow White, I really did want to see it. Charlize Theron is a wonderful actress and pulled in one of cinema's best performances of all time playing serial killer Aileen Wuornos. When I saw her in this movie, I was taken back, she looks breath taking gorgeous still and who the heck would ever be considered "more fair" than Charlize TheronKristen Stewart? Now I think it's silly the way people are reacting to her staring role because of their hate for Twilight, I by no means hate Kristen, I'm not a fan of the Twilight series, but these people are still actors who have potential and are not given the best material to work with. I want to give Kristen a chance because she seems like she wants to spread her wings and really enjoys acting, but alas, the girl needs to find a different job or talent. Snow White wasn't exactly what it could've been, it could've been a great retelling of the classic fairy tale.Snow White is the daughter of King Magnus. After his wife's death, King Magnus falls in love with beautiful Ravenna after rescuing her from the Dark Army. The two are married but Ravenna - who is in fact a powerful sorceress and the Dark Army's master - kills Magnus on their wedding night. As Ravenna seizes control of the kingdom, Magnus' most trusted knight attempts to help Snow White escape the Castle but fails when she is captured by Ravenna's brother. Snow White is then locked away in the dungeons while Ravenna uses her Magic Mirror, who promises to help her become "the fairest of them all". Fifteen years later, Ravenna learns from the Mirror that a now-grown up Snow White is destined to surpass her and that she must consume the young girl's heart in order to become immortal. She orders Finn to bring her Snow White but the princess escapes. Now with the help of a huntsman, Snow White meets some friends along the way to help restore the kingdom to what it once was and destroy the evil queen.The thing about Snow White that I think a lot of people were thinking as well was that Charlize was going to be the one to steal the movie, but instead while she has a chilling presence about her, she must have taken an acting tip from John Travolta in Battlefield Earth on how to act because her performance was so over the top. When she gets crazy and starts screaming, most people in the audience were giggling and I found myself smiling too just because it was too over the top and if I were a character next to her, I would ask "umm, do you need some Midol and a nap?", her screaming just couldn't be taken seriously. Then we are given some attempt at a great back story for her as the evil queen, how she came across the spell because of her familythat's it, they leave the story at that. Well, how did she become evil? How did she take over other kingdoms? Was she stalking Snow White's family to take over their kingdom? Nothing is ever answered. Kristen Stewart's performance is very under acted and again, why can't this girl close her mouth?! Her expressions are the same in every scene and you can't take her seriously when she shouts her inspirational speech to her people and keeps stuttering.Stories are presented and never explained or brought up again: the love story between Snow White and the Huntsman is brought up but never expanded to more than one kiss when Snow White dies. Prince William, why wasn't he the one Snow White was destined for? Then I feel awful for dwarf actors, we have average size actors shrunk down. Not to say I don't love Bob Hoskins or Nick Frost, but Warwick Davis owns an agency dedicated to short actors, why not just hire real dwarfs? The CGI and cinematography are very beautiful but the CGI is used way too much and seems like someone just wanted to be like "look what I can do with a computer!". The plot holes: why can't the queen shut up and kill Snow White when she has 15 opportunities instead of talking about it? If she's so powerful, why can't she make herself appear in front of Snow White and kill her? Why couldn't she go to Snow White's chamber herself and kill her? I guess we wouldn't have a movie then. I just would recommend this as a rental, it wasn't anything special and over all very disappointing because of our lead actresses. It could've been better, but I'll stick to my animated Disney version for now.5/10
I was so extremely excited to see Clerks, because I just saw recently on BRAVO the 100 funniest films of all time and Clerks was in the top 15, not to mention I have heard so much about this film from other viewers, they have said nothing but great things about Clerks. To them it was the funniest movie ever made, so I had to see this movie, I also remember finding out that this is how Jay and Silent Bob got their start, I loved their movie and appearances I've seen on TV.Donte is a clerk attendant who is in on his day off, he has found out some interesting "news" about his girlfriend, he is still in love with his high school sweetheart, Caitlin, and he has constant brainless customers who come up and pretty much scare him. He has a friend who works next door at the local video store who pretty much hates everyone except for Donte, but he constantly tells Donte what's wrong with his life and how to get everything straightened out.Clerks turned out to be annoying to me for the most part, I laughed a couple times, but I guess maybe I was expecting too much. It just didn't seem funny to me, more offensive if anything. I understand that there are some people who are into that, but this movie just seemed like an OK film to watch that I probably won't see again, sorry.6/10
OK, finished the third installment of the Harry Potter series and still doing fine, lol. I have to say that this was a great installment into the series, I still haven't read the books, so I cannot judge on those, only the films. So the Prisoner of Azkaban I must say had a much more dark side of the story, the kids are now a little more grown up and facing much more terrifying things as the head on to become great sorcerers. The cast is still doing great things together, same as the other films with a great addition of Gary Oldman. The story seemed also a bit stronger than the other Harry Potter films.After having trouble at home once again with Harry Potter's adoptive family, he runs away sick of being called a freak and wanting to be with his own. Only now entering his third year at Hogwart, he is about to face a great enemy, Sirus Black, a murderer who would like to see Harry dead to avenge the sorcerers. Not to mention his constant feud with his schoolmate, Draco, won't stop, but he has his friends to help him lead on into a world where Harry will live and become a great sorcerer.The Prisoner of Azkaban was extremely entertaining and kept my total attention. I loved watching him having to learn how to control and use the bird like creature in his first class and just seeing finally Draco getting his. I would very much recommend The Prisoner of Azkaban, it was a great installment and I cannot wait for the Goblet of Fire, from the rating, I'm extremely excited to see what that is about.8/10
The Haunting is a masterpiece of horror cinema, it's one of those ghost stories that go on forever because of it's originality and taste. My sister is absolutely in love with this movie, I hadn't seen it in a while, so her and I watched it together the other day and I have to say that surprisingly it still sends chills down my spine when I watch it. The remake was just horrible, it was over done and in some ways just plain annoying. But that's why I would recommend sticking to the original, the classic just never dies.Hill House hasn't exactly had a clean history of former owners, murders and suicides, people screaming to get out, no one wishes to stay there, but for Dr. Markway, he would like to see what it's about. He invites 3 individuals who all have had some sort of supernatural experiences: Theo, Luke, and Elenore. They all together must find a way to survive a night in Hill House when things start going horribly wrong and attack Elenore.The Haunting is a great horror story that has true originality and is perfectly made, I don't see how this movie could have been made better. I give such credit to Robert Wise since this movie is still talked about to this day. If you want a true horror masterpiece, I would definitely recommend this movie to you, watch it in the dark, you'll get the true effect of the movie. Not to mention a good scare.8/10
After seeing some pretty harsh reviews on Wild Hogs, I was a bit hesitant to see the movie. But I couldn't resist, we have some awesome actors here: John Travolta, William H. Macy, Ray Liotta, Marisa Tomei, and... that's it. Well, I'm in no way criticizing Tim Allen's acting, he was actually pretty decent; I've never been a fan of Martin Lawerence, but I didn't mind him so much in the film. I watched Wild Hogs last night and I really enjoyed it. While it was a little flat in some areas, it still brought me a few laughs and I really enjoyed the characters. The story you have to admit is a fun one, just because who hasn't seen the middle aged guys trying to re-kindle their youth? So it was a blast seeing these great actors do this story together.Bobby, Dudley, Doug, and Woody are all best pals and have been since college. They have a biker gang together called the Wild Hogs, it's the one escape from their typical and predictable lives as husbands, fathers, or just being single and depressed. One day after Woody's bitter divorce and loosing his money, he suggests a road trip to re-kindle the guy's old ways. But from minute one, the trip isn't working, all the guys try to plan the trip instead of being spontaneous, they go to the bathroom every 5 minutes, and are constantly accused of being gay. Then to top things off, they meet a rival gang and Woody accidentally blows up their bar and are now being chased across the country while the boys try to be so wild.Wild Hogs is actually a fun comedy that I'm sure you'll get a few laughs from, while I was hoping for a little bit more, it still was all good. Considering that it could have flopped, I think it worked. For me I loved William H. Macy's character the most, Dudley, he was just so cute when he acted tough, it's just the whole point of it's William H. Macy. But he's awesome, so are the other actors. I would recommend Wild Hogs, it's just a fun little comedy that I'm sure you'll get a couple laughs from.6/10
I remember last year seeing the trailer for The Golden Compass, now I'll be honest, I had no interest what so ever in seeing this film, but after seeing the Oscars, it was nominated for a few awards, so I wondered maybe if I had just misjudged the film. So I rented it this week and watched it yesterday with a very open mind; while the movie was nicely made, the one thing I did not appreciate was this is a movie where if you haven't read the book, you'll have no idea what they are talking about really. The effects, the acting, the editing, etc. was very good, it's just the story that really gets your brain in an overload and at the end of the movie, you'll be like "What movie did I watch?".Lyra Belacqua lives in a very different world than our own, where pets are called "demons" and they can talk and change shape. But apparently there is some kind of organization where the demons and the children are being torn away from each other and the kids just disappear. When Lyra is taken by a beautiful woman, Marisa Coulter, but Marisa isn't so trust worthy when Lyra finds out that she's the one behind the organization and wants to use her for her special talent to read the golden compass and see into the world.The Golden Compass is a decent film, but like I said I was just disappointed in the fact that you really will not get a lot if you haven't read the book. But from what I am reading here on IMDb, the people who have read the book say that this film is a let down for them, so I'm kind of in a confused state more so now than when I finished this film. As for a family film? This movie does have a little violence and scares here and there, but over all I think it's safe for the kids. Everything about this film except for the over the top story is decent, but maybe the sequel will make more sense, hopefully.5/10
I have to admit that Over Her Dead Body actually wasn't as bad as I was expecting, my mom wanted to see it, so I rented it. I figured just to go ahead and see the horror before my eyes, but actually this wasn't too bad. I was just expecting this horrific movie, but it seems like the writers meant no harm, but the casting of Eva Longoria(Parker, sorry), she seems a little off set for the movie. I think I may have found it to be a little better without her, just she does annoy me. But Paul Rudd and Lake Bell had a decent chemistry that made the film somewhat likable. But you have to admit, there was no point to this movie, it was one of those quick paychecks for the actor type of thing. The movie could've been funnier if someone had really paid attention to it and had a better cast.Henry just lost his bride to be, Kate, who was killed by an ice sculpture on their wedding day. But when his sister takes him to a psychic, Ashley, Henry falls for her, but Kate is haunting her from beyond the grave. Kate is jealous and doesn't want Henry to move on so quickly and she will make sure that Ashley doesn't get him by torturing her day and night with her rambles, believe me, with Kate's voice, that's scary.Over Her Dead Body is an alright movie, not sure if it's worth the money, but I'd give it a rental for you if you want to see it or are curious. Eva Longoria just doesn't have enough star power to make the film work, no offense to those who love her, she just belongs on the small screen over the silver screen. Not to mention the character of Ashley, she seems still not too likable with everything she pulls, or her "gay" friend, Dan, just again, not really likable. Just with some re-writing and proper attention, this film could have been better, but instead we get the average predictable romantic comedy that will leave with with an empty feeling.4/10
I had heard a little bit of The Truman Show, I was watching a program where they were discussing Jim Carrey's career and they mentioned how The Truman Show was like his first major drama and how well he had performed in it. I never realized that this film was so well liked, especially when I went onto IMDb and people seemed to love this film very much. So of course I rented it at Hollywood Video and watched it last night and I have to say that I have pretty much the same opinion as most of the users, it's a great film that had a great dramatic story with a little dark comedy.Truman Burbank seems to have the most perfect life, he has a beautiful wife, a close nit community, a desk job, and a loving mother. But is it a little too perfect? Especially since everyone always seems to know his name? He meets a girl, Lauren, and they hit it off, but she tells him that she cannot speak to him or "they'll" take her away from him, she tells him that his life is a TV show and that his whole life has been a set up. He slowly discovers what his life has been and how it's either too perfect or the dramatics come at the perfect time. But is the world ready to let go of The Truman Show? The Truman Show is a well acted film with an incredible story that I'm more than certain any one could enjoy, it was very charming and had the perfect elements to the plot. Jim Carrey did a terrific job and this movie proved how great he could be in a drama instead of all comedy. Laura Linney was just perfect, I loved her constant details of everything she bought and how she presented it like a commercial. I think you will enjoy this film, it's a good one to watch.8/10
I have heard so much about The French Connection, in my film class a couple years ago, we watched the exciting car chase scene that made this movie so famous. I just thought of the film again and decided to rent it. I watched it this morning and I have to say that William Friedkin is definitely a terrific director, he caught the mood and setting of 1970's New York and crime perfectly, so it wasn't a shock to learn that this was the 1971 best picture. This is a definite treasure when it comes to film history and is very memorable.Doyle and Russo are cop partners, it's very strange how opposite they are. Russo is pretty straight by the book and clean while Doyle is a grumpy alcoholic but does get his job done. Together they are about to stop the crime of the decade when they find out about a drug smuggle coming from France. Going through so many people to find out what will happen and when, they go through the most extreme times to bust the case.Well, The French Connection is a terrific film that is a must see for film fanatics. Or if you are just looking for a good movie to watch, this was a great one from the 70's. The car chase scene was very excellent, I think not too many people give this movie enough credit on how it was shot and made. William and the cast were just terrific, The French Connection was a very cool film.8/10
Great dancing... too bad they could afford the choreographer, but skimped out on the good actors, I know I shouldn't have watched this film, I didn't like the first Step Up movie, what in the world possessed me to watch the sequel? My friends and I were bored and needed a movie to watch and since a couple of my girlfriends are just die hard fans of the first Step Up, they were dying to see the sequel. I think this was just a horribly written movie and so badly acted, it's the same plot recycled from the first Step Up, only this time it's with the girl who's the trouble maker and the guy is the preppy rich kid. They just couldn't do anything original or even classy... as much as I enjoyed the dancing, there were some incredible moves, this was meant to be a movie, not just a tutorial on how to dance, good dance moves do not make a good movie.Andie is apart of a dance crew who not only dance great, but they also cause disruption in society and are wanted by all the police. Andie's guardian gives her one more chance to straighten up and sends her to a preppy dance school where she meets the kids who dance "properly". But when her crew finds out where she's been going, they kick her out, but a preppy dancer encourages her to start her own crew and invites others, but the teacher gets angry when the streets are threatened and damage school property, the teacher threatens expulsion to anyone who is apart of the street dance.Step Up 2 the Streets is definitely for those who enjoy these dance movies, but for me, nothing stood out any different from any other dance movie. This is a rental or just a skip, I feel bad because I didn't want to see this movie, but I will give it it's chops for a great ending dance sequence, these kids were absolutely amazing and their timing was on, I can't believe how well it was performed. Over all this isn't by any means a horrible movie, but the acting and story just make it a non watchable film, just fast forward to the dance sequences, that's the only entertainment of the film.2/10
When I was a kid, one of the big movies was Dick Tracey. I remember watching this movie all the time on TV and was just in love with it. I wanted to be Madonna because of this film. The colors were bright, the villains were terrifying to look at and the story was very cool. We couldn't get enough of the movie, comic book, cartoon or video game. Dick Tracey was the man of the early 90's. The weird thing is I never wrote a comment on the movie because when I first started writing reviews when I was 15 yeas old was because I didn't see the movie for years and it would've been unfair to give it a review without being able to remember what it really was. I bought the film a year ago when I found it in a five dollar bin flashing back to the good ol' days. I watched the film tonite wanting to be taken back to what was so magical about this movie when I was a kid and found myself criticizing it like an adult instead.At an illegal card game, a young street kid witnesses the massacre of a group of mobsters at the hands of Flattop and Itchy, two of the hoods on the payroll of Alphonse "Big Boy" Caprice. Big Boy's crime syndicate is aggressively taking over small businesses in the city. Detective Dick Tracy catches the kid in an act of petty theft. After rescuing him from a ruthless host, Tracy temporarily adopts him with the help of his girlfriend, Tess Truehart. Meanwhile, Big Boy coerces club owner Lips Manlis into signing over the deed to Club Ritz. He then kills Lips with a cement overcoat and steals his girlfriend, Breathless Mahoney. After Lips is reported missing, Tracy interrogates his three hired guns, Flattop, Itchy, and Mumbles, then goes to the club to arrest Big Boy for Lips' murder. Breathless is the only witness and Tracey needs her to testify in order to put Big Boy in prison once and for all.Funny thing that this being a film that all my friends and I remember watching as kids and really in some strange way this has more adult themes to it. For God's sake we see Madonna's nipple in a sheer outfit, all though I don't think there were men in this country who didn't see her bosoms. The villain's make up was actually frightening in some aspects and I remember as a kid the "no face" villain scared me very much. But as kids we are more resilient than adults gave us credit for. For the film, it's still very colorful and I really admire it for that. The colors are red, yellow, green, red and black and you feel like you're transferred into the comics.You can tell that Warren had a genuine love for this movie and the comics. He really captures what a comic book movie is. I also loved the whole feeling of the classic gangsters story with the tommy guns and wardrobe. I think over all the film works on the story and the actors really got into it. Though I think it could've been bigger like Batman. I don't know what it was that didn't get this film into a better status when you think of good comic book movies, maybe there were things that were off that Warren couldn't capture. Dick Tracey is an interesting character that could be explored more and given better depth. But this movie is still very fun and holds up well to this day. With fun visuals and a great cast, Dick Tracey is still the man.7/10
The long awaited Simpsons Movie finally opened today, this is the day that Simpsons fans have been dreaming about since there was talk about a Simpsons movie. I just saw the opening show today and I have to say that the Simpsons still have me laughing after all this time. Even though it just felt like another episode, the Simpsons have pushed the envelope a little further into total controversy as the day that the Simpsons show debuted on FOX. If you are a Simpsons fan, I'm more than positive you are going to love the Simpsons Movie. It had great laughs, shocking moments, and just such a fun atmosphere that anyone could have fun with.Springfield is under a watch for global warming, they find out about their lake being polluted and how it will destroy the town unless they stop dumping toxic waste into the water. But Homer pushes it when he dumps more "crap" into the lake and it causes harm to animals. The EPA places a dome around Springfield to protect others from entering it's harmful environment, but leaves the whole town's population in the dome. When they learn that it was Homer's actions that caused this, they go after him and the family, but they escape through a hole in the ground. They go to Alaska, but find out that the EPA has deadly plans for Springfield and the Simpsons have to stop them.Even though I was expecting more, I was extremely happy with what I got. It is like a typical episode in some ways, but I love the Simpsons, I'm going to be a fan 'till the day I die, so I just naturally love this film. I know that sounds biased, but other Simpsons fans can relate, I'm sure. The Simpsons movie is an absolute blast of great laughter and fun, it even gets emotional, I smell Oscars! Lol, just kidding, but please have fun and watch the Simpsons Movie, I'm sure you'll love it.10/10
The classic tale of adventure, romance and betrayal is back! The Count of Monte Cristo, one the best books of all time. I read the book back in high school and it was the first book I had finished way before the assignments were supposed to be done. The whole idea of this story was just so exciting to me and I imagined what the characters looked like, what the places looked like and how the fights were styled. I was so enchanted by this book, but oddly enough I never saw the movie and I don't know why. But I found a local Blockbuster that was closing and saw a brand new copy of The Count of Monte Cristo on sale, I grabbed it immediately and watched it this weekend. I really liked this movie, I think it did the book justice. It was so exciting to see all these wonderful characters come to life as we see The Count of Monte Cristo prove that good can triumph and karma does exist.Edmond Dantès and his friend, Fernand Mondego, officers of a French trading ship, head to Elba seeking medical attention for their captain. Dantès and Mondego are chased by English Dragoons who believe they are spies for the exiled Napoleon Bonaparte. The Emperor arrives and declares they are not his agents, and asks Dantès to give a letter to a friend in France. At Marseilles, Dantès is reprimanded by the ship's first mate, Danglars for disobeying orders. However, the shipping company's boss, Morrell, commends Dantès' bravery, promoting him over Danglars. Mondego intercepts Dantès' fiancée Mercédès and unsuccessfully tries to seduce her. When he hears of Dantès' promotion, Mondego realizes that Dantès will be able to marry Mercédès sooner than expected. Mondego gets drunk and tells Danglars about the letter Napoleon gave Dantès. Danglars has Dantès charged with treason and sent to magistrate J.F. Villefort. Sent to prison for 13 years, he escapes with the help of a fellow inmate. Now thirsty for revenge, Edmond takes on a different identity of The Count of Monte Cristo and wants to pay Mondego back for taking his life away for so long.Both Jim Caviezel and Guy Pearce had great chemistry. Guy had this look and arrogance about him that looked perfect for Mondego. He didn't make Mondego into a typical bad guy because you could understand why he was so upset with his life. He was evil to do that to his friend, but he had motive and wasn't a stereotypical villain. Jim did a wonderful job as Edmond, played to a note on what Edmond is: charming, dashing, smart, kind and strong. You feel such sympathy for this man who just wanted to live a normal life with his lovely fiancé and to have a family. It's so quickly taken away from him and it's just tragic what he has to go through. The people he lost, the life he had, to be in solitary confinement, you could only imagine how horrific it must have been for him. The sets in the movie are astonishing. I can't describe the excitement I felt when you see Edmond come into his party from an air balloon and in slow motion as he walks down the steps with his coat blowing in the wind, I want to enter a party like that! Moving on, the film really is wonderful, at times very predictable excusing if you've already read the book. The only actor I complain about is Luis Guzmán who came off more creepy than loyal at times. But a timeless story of revenge and rising above it all, I'm sure that you'll find The Count of Monte Cristo a treat not to be missed.8/10
I have gotten into the mind of my 10 year old cousin, it's sick, she loves Hannah Montana, The Jonas Brothrs, and she goes on and on about how cute and dreamy Zac Effron is, now I know he was in Hairspray, but she hadn't seen that, when I asked her, she said "No! From High School Musical", I had heard a little bit about High School Musical, but had no idea what it was about. From what it looked like, pretty white kids with problems who have to sing them out, lol. But she wanted me to see both movies, so I borrowed High School Musical one and two and I watched them last night, High School Musical really wasn't as bad as I was expecting. It was what I was expecting in the cast and plot, but trying to judge this on a kid's level, I think it was a new version of Grease, only these kids look their ages, lol, John Travolta looked like 25 playing a 17 year old. But the story is similar and the songs are pretty fun.Troy and Gabrielle meet on vacation, they are both shy and stick with their own groups, but when they sing, they enter their own world, they're great singers and they click on chemistry. Gabrielle moves with her family and ends up going to the same school as Troy. Troy is on the basketball team and Gabrielle is in a club where the smartest kids in school beat others by intelligence. But when Troy and Gabrielle see each other, they sing for a musical, when they are called back, super theater star, Sharpay, will not stand it and make sure that their clubs put them back to where they "belong".Now the only thing I have to say that I couldn't stop laughing at was the over acting, but I know that this was a musical, so I'm trying to get over it. It's a movie for kids, so I'm cutting High School Musical a lot of slack, but it seems as if this movie is some what of a classic with the little one's, is that so bad? I don't think so, these movies are kind of fun, and the kids do need a musical made just for them. The characters were a cliché, but like I said, this is the new generation's Grease, the songs are not as memorable, but I thought it was a cute movie to see, so I'd recommend it for the family or your kids. Even though I'm still freaked out how much Zac Effron and David Cassidy look alike, do these guys look like clones or what? LOL, another scary generation similarity I guess, we're just running out of ideas, so let's go back to the 60's and 70's.6/10
Well, I just finished the Back to the Future trilogy and all I have to say is that I was pleasantly surprised and relieved that I finally had the opportunity to see these films. Without a doubt, the first was my favorite, the second was my second favorite, and the third worked, but it didn't work as well as the other two movies. Part three worked the same formulas from the first and second, but some of the situations just seemed a tad too unrealistic.Marty and The Doc are now in the Wild Wild West way back in 1885, and as you know the tools are not quite advanced as they are in 1985, so they have to figure out the best they can on how to get back to the future. But Doc falls in love with a woman he saves from going over a cliff, Clara, and Marty has been challenged by Mad Dog, or Biff in a different generation, to a duel. This is a major problem since Marty found a tombstone in the future with a possibility of having either his or Doc's name on it.Well, I'm really glad that I had the opportunity to see these Back to the Future films, because they were good movies. I have to say that I was wrong, I tried to stay away from these films, I'll admit, because it just seemed so hokey and not my type of movie, but I think that's a major problem we all need to work on and not be so judgmental before we typecast a movie that we think we won't like because we might end up with little treasures.7/10
Police Academy is such a classic, it has some of the best laughs and is just such a great time to watch it wither it's by yourself or with a group of friends. So I couldn't resist, I had to see the sequels, but I was really nervous when I kept checking all the ratings for the sequels, they're all pretty low and below average. So I was expecting Police Academy 2: Their First Assignment to be absolutely bad, but actually I did laugh quite a bit. I admit this was below what the first one was with the laughs and the story, but I felt like it was a decent follow up with the first Police Academy movie. It was cool to see the old gang back together and just having fun like they did in the first film. The story is a little weak but it's still a lot of fun to watch and has some great laughs.A violent, well, um, if that's the right word, a violent gang has moved in on the town and are just making it into a havoc for anyone to live in. They are also making a mockery of the police, well, that's not too hard to do since they're pretty incompetent, so the chief wants a new team. He is given the class of '84, who haven't had any good jobs since they graduated, but now they are back together to get this gang out of town. At first they just end up screwing just as badly, but come together to be the best police force in town.Police Academy 2: Their First Assignment in my opinion is a fun movie, I think the 4.8 rating is a little harsh, I understand the low 5's, but I think the reason why is because it is a little less than the first Police Academy movie, now of course I would say to stick with the original for right now, but I wouldn't shy you away from the sequel. Anyone who says they didn't laugh once during this movie must be lying, because the scene where they put super glue in their Sergent's shampoo was beyond hilarious, it's a classic. So just go ahead and have fun with this movie, I think you'll enjoy it.5/10
When I first saw the trailer for Miss Pettigrew Lives for a Day, I was a little off put, it looked like a movie that I was either going like a lot or really dislike and feel like it was a waste of time. So I saw Miss Pettigrew Lives for a Day this morning and I really liked it a lot. Miss Pettigrew is a feel good light hearted romantic comedy, one that we need more of these days. It had bright colors, a fun story, and enchanting actors. Frances McDormand was so brilliant and a lot of fun to watch, she's got such a presence on the silver screen and has still got that magical touch. Amy Adams was just adorable, I really am starting to love her more and more in each movie I see her in, she's just so cute in her role as Delysia. The weird thing is, is that her character could have been such a tramp, but she made it into someone so cute and likable that her and Miss Pettigrew into a great on screen friendship.Miss Pettigrew is a woman in the 1930's who has gone through so much, she's getting fired from one job to the next. But when she sneaks into being a "social secretary" for Delysia Lafosse, a sexy young vixen who is dating three guys at the same time. But she just wants to have the lead role in the local play and become a huge actress, but it's hard balancing these boys, but with Miss Pettigrew, she realizes that she might just be in love with a great man. Miss Pettigrew in the mean time catches the eye of a handsome rich man, Joe, who may just change her life.Miss Pettigrew Lives for a Day is a charming film and is one of the better films of 2008. I know that it's a bit predictable and it's a chick flick, but it's just a fun movie that I'm sure you'll like. It doesn't try too hard and the actors looked like they had such a great time making this movie. I would recommend Miss Pettigrew Lives for a Day, it's worth the watch. It's a nice romantic comedy that's original, clean, and fun. It brought me back to the classic movies of the 1950's where they were just fun entertainment, the colors and the feel of movie was just enchanting.8/10
When I think of these movies like How She Move or You Got Served, I always thought they would be ignorant and just celebrating the "gangsta" rap life style and would be a waste of good film. But for some reason I decided to just go ahead and see what these films were like, I had nothing better to do, I was expecting bad, but guess what?! I actually liked it! I couldn't believe it, I mean, I really did like Stomp the Yard. There's really not anything wrong with the film, while it is predictable, it's definitely better than most films. I'm actually disgusted with a lot of the users who rated this movie a one just because of it's theme, I just stayed away because I thought I wouldn't like the film, but I wouldn't rate it before I saw it. But honestly I'm glad I decided to give it a chance, it has decent enough actors and an inspiring story to follow.DJ and his brother, along with a few friends, they are in an underground street dance group, one night it goes bad though. After DJ and his brother win, their group gets jumped and DJ's brother is shot and killed. DJ goes to Atlanta to go to school, he meets April, a beautiful young woman and wants to do better for her, his family, for his brother, and for himself. He joins a fraternity that is into dancing, together they bring themselves into the championship. But another fraternity wants DJ out and will do anything to bring him down.Now when I watched this film I had very low expectations, like I said before, it's a film that just naturally seems like it's going to be bad. But it's actually a decent film and I'm just disappointed with the rating here on IMDb. The film has good acting, a decent story, and incredible dance moves. The actor Columbus Short who played DJ was great, he didn't over play the role and didn't under do it either. I would recommend Stomp the Yard, I ended up really liking it, just give it a chance, when you look at it, you realize it's a good film.6/10
After being really happy with the first Hot Shots, I was excited to see the next and I have to say that Part Deux was still a ton of fun. Despite the fact that I know that this film may be a little silly and over the top with the jokes, it still was a lot of fun to watch. I think everyone needs an outrageous comedy here and there. Charlie Sheen is an absolute blast to watch, this time, they are taking on Rambo, Predator, Commando, Basic Instinct, and many other references.Topper is asked to come back to save a bunch of American soldiers captured by Saddam Husain, but he has been dumped by Ramada and starts a steamy affair with a CIA agent who gives him her mole for luck. When he sees Ramada on the mission due to sequel casting, they stick together and the team puts in their best and saves the soldiers from the wacky dictator.Hot Shots Part Deux is a lot of fun for certain people, like me, who enjoy these zany goof ball comedies. I really do prefer this kind of comedy to many I've seen today where it's more shock than originality. The Hot Shot movies are so much fun and I would recommend these movies for anyone. Just sit back and have fun with these comedies, I think you'll have a good time.7/10
I just didn't understand how this movie was so raved about in 2003, I remember it was up for some Oscars, I believe, and I heard about it from several people on how dark it was but interesting. Well, I rented it the other day and decided to give it some time to think about it, still I came up with the same conclusion, it had no point. Normally most movies have a moral or some kind of meaningful conclusion, I'm not saying that some films could be different, and we've had those types of films, but still this one just made absolutely no sense. I think because the pace was just so slow and really couldn't get to the point, I lost interest.Cristina has just lost her husband and her two daughters in a horrible hit and run accident, realizing that she would loose her husband due to massive brain damage, she lets him go and donates his heart to another man who is dying and needs a heart transplant, Paul. Paul looks her up and instantly falls for her despite being in a loveless marriage, he would do anything for Cristina, including killing the ex con who is now a religious freak who killed her family and part of her life.There's more to the story, but that is the summed up version of pretty much what it is. The acting was not bad at all, in fact I would say that is very decent, it was the story and how it was edited that didn't work for me. I think the story had some kind of meaning that could have been better explored or told in more sincere way. Doesn't make any sense I know, but I would just warn you that this movie is somewhat a waste of time.6/10
I just saw the first two Fast and the Furious films a couple days ago and I had this gigantic fear of watching Tokoy Drift, I wasn't into the first two films, and this seemed like another guaranteed let down. But since I rented all the films simultaneously, I just wanted to get my money's worth, so I watched The Fast and the Furious: Tokyo Drift this evening, I have to say that I was totally surprised. Even though it was typical and the plot was predictable, I still liked this film a lot better. I feel like this was the story that they should have started out with, it seemed a little more realistic. Well, most of it anyways, not to mention the killer ending they had, but I won't spoil. But The Fast and the Furious: Tokyo Drift has a great story and an unbelievably good looking cast, you can't help but love it.Sean has just raced the toughest jock in high school and well, you guessed it, they got hurt doing so. Since the jock has a good connection Sean is in trouble for it, his mom doesn't know what to do with him, so she does what any sensible parent would do, she sends him to another country! Japan, to be with his navy father, but he quickly discovers the under ground world of "drifting", which is actually racing, but it sounds a lot cooler, doesn't it? But he gets involved with the good guy who vs. the bad guys who belong to a Japanese mafia, and falls for the bad guy's girlfriend and they race each other, you know how the story always goes.The Fast and the Furious: Tokyo Drift is typical and silly, but for some reason, I really did enjoy it. I think it just had a better story. Either that, or I figure maybe I was just in a better mood when I watched this film opposed to the other two films. But I did enjoy The Fast and the Furious: Tokyo Drift and would recommend it for mindless entertainment, after all, this has cars and good looking people, what young person could ask for more? Well, I'm sure there are many different things I could ask for, but I got my hour and a half's worth.6/10
I have heard of Bachelor Party a couple times, once on VH1's I love the 80's and also in Clerks 2 there was a small reference. The weird thing is, I'm more used to a dramatic Tom Hanks, other than Big and A League of Their Own, I've never seen him in a raw comedy movie, so it was a little weird to think of Tom Hanks as this very funny male lead in a movie. But I decided to go ahead and give the movie a look, I have to tell you, I haven't laughed so hard and so out loud in a movie like this in a long time. Then I check out the rating on IMDb, 5.7?! Are you kidding me?! This movie is just so beyond funny, I know that it is cliché'd eighties, but come on! I just couldn't believe that anyone else would not find this to be a funny film. If you're telling me you did not find Brad to be funny, you have got to get your funny bone checked because Bachelor Party is non stop laughs from beginning to end.Rick is about to get married to beautiful Debbie, his friends who live to party are throwing him the biggest bachelor party they can have. Debbie's rich and snobby family definitely don't want Rick to be apart of their lives, so Debbie's dad will do anything, including her ex-boyfriend, Cole, who wants her back, to split them up. But the bachelor party night has arrived, and things are going more crazy than the boys have expected.Bachelor Party is seriously funny, it's predictable and silly, especially the end, but it's all in good fun. This is perfect 80's humor, it's the humor I miss and I'm sure others do too, because it's raunchy but doesn't over do it and just has fun with the audience. This cast looked like they had an ultimate blast and Tom Hanks was just brilliant, his character could be a jerk, but such a great guy at the same time, so he's real and likable. This is just a funny movie that I would recommend, it's a lot of fun and the rating on IMDb is just too harsh. Come on, let's get this rating up.8/10
It's hard to believe, I have seen so many movies, yet I have never seen a WOODY ALLEN film, it just never came to my mind. But Annie Hall is probably his most famous work and I figured that at least I could see this film since it won best picture against Star Wars, while I'm still debating if it was the best picture of 1977, I still can't deny that this was an excellent film. The story was so wonderful and really opened the doors for the battle of the sexes, I don't think a film before this could have depicted such a better way of the way we think of the opposite sex.Alvy Singer is a comedian, slightly famous, he does everything right in his career, he always has the right lines, a great apartment in New York, a fun imagination, but with the ladies? Well, there he becomes more short handed. But that all changes when Alvy meets a naive but lovely woman, Annie Hall. She is a singer who is trying to make it, but when he and she become an item, she opens up more and wants to do more, but Alvy just would prefer to keep things the way they are.The film is really remarkable and I have to say that I could understand it's praise, the story still remains so true to this day and any adult could really understand it's premisous. I loved the scene where both Annie and Alvy are at their therapists and they explain that the sex they're having is either not enough or too much. There are so many classic scenes, I would just recommend this film, it's a great classic that anyone could enjoy.9/10
I admit it, I'm a girl, I have never seen one episode of Sex and the City, it never sparked my interest and when I heard about the movie coming out, I was sure that I wouldn't wanna see it, but I was invited by some friends of mine today and I got to see it for free, so what would I have to loose? I thought it was probably going to be awful or that I wouldn't get into it. Well, first of all, I do have to admit, never underestimate the power of estrogen, because about 90% of the audience(women) were all dressed the same and acted the same as if they belonged in the show, this was a bit scary. But anyways, I hate to say it, maybe because I'm a girl, but I did enjoy Sex and the City the movie. I thought it was well put together and just fun to be with the girls. Now maybe it's a good thing I haven't seen the show because I don't have to compare it, but I think, oh, my god, I can't believe I'm say this, but I may just start watching the series.Carrie just got everything she's ever wanted along with her friends: Miranda, Samantha, and Charolette, they are just living the highs of life, love, and really big closets with name brands. Carrie just got engaged to the love of her life, Mr. Big, but he freaks out when the wedding gets more and more big and he decides that it's too much and leaves the wedding before it gets started. Miranda's husband cheated on her and she refuses to forgive him. Samantha is having second thoughts about her relationship and wishes to return to the sex vixen she always was. Charolette finally gets the baby she's always wanted. But in the mean time Carrie is just trying to get back to life with her friends.Sex and the City, no, it's by no means a guy's movie, in fact I think that's the reason for the low rating here on IMDb, a lot of guys do resent this film. It's for a girl's afternoon, even I hate to say it, I did think it was cute and just fun to watch. Do women act like this? Unfortunately some do, but it's not believable that all women behave this way, not everyone does all the things these girls do. Some women do look up to this behavior, I don't go for it, be yourself, don't be like what I saw in the audience, be an individual. Sorry, that was a little too after school special, but seriously, just it was sad to see that in young girls. But I do however would recommend this movie for not only the fans, but for all the girls looking for just a fun afternoon of laughter and tears.7/10
I think my friends must think I am the biggest freak in the whole world because I was crying after this film. I was so looking forward to seeing Joe Pesci, I mean the man hasn't done a film in almost 8 years, he's one of my favorite actors as well with Robert DeNiro, so this film was so exciting to me. Especially when I heard that Robert had turned down The Departed to work on this film, I could only think of how wonderful this film was going to be, I also promised myself I would never dislike a Robert or Joe film. Joe! Oh, my God! I cannot believe how he looked! It was so strange seeing him so aged and he was only in 2 minutes of the film! Robert, I just don't understand what encouraged him to do this film.Basically The Good Shepherd is based around the C.I.A. and Matt Damon. He is an agent who as a young boy found his father dead from suicide. But a clip of a man and woman making love keeps being brought up, we're not sure where it's going at first, but we realize there may be something going on deep in Matt's family, he realizes after a letter his father wrote, he has become him, maybe worse. Espcecially since he wasn't a good husband or father, only dedicated to his country and when he took the most important things in his life seriously, that's when it's too late.I so badly wanted to love this film, I really did, but it was just so slow and agonizing to get through with Matt Damon playing the lead, he's a good actor, but he's not leading man material. He is in every scene of this movie, now mind you this is a 3 hour movie, but it seemed like he only had maybe 20 lines, I mean, Robert could've cut some scenes in the film, now it's not that I don't mind a 3 hour movie, but it just wasn't a necessary length since it was mostly dragged out. And Matt just kept on making deep serious looks throughout the film, I just couldn't see him in this role. But I don't know honestly, like I said, so much was built up for me and I over all was pretty disappointed.6/10
Clint Eastwood, the master of making depressing films now makes his trilogy: Mystic River, Million Dollar Baby, and now Changeling. Based of the horrific chicken coop murders from the 1920's in California, we get a deeper insight into one of the mothers of the victims, Christine Collins who is portrayed by Angelina Jolie, queen of the never ending tears. I'm just playing, she does a terrific job and is just so heart breaking to watch her story on film, she gives Christine a lot of character and depth. The film is even made a certain way, a lot of dark colors, it seems as if it was made in old Hollywood, which was a very intelligent way of setting the mood and time of the film. We have some very fine performances pretty much from everyone in this movie. The one flaw I did feel is that the script does have some lines that are a little over done, a little too dramatic, but it really works for the film and story.Christine Collins is a single mother in the 1920's, she's a strong woman who is even ahead of some of the men in her line of work as an operator manager. But she's so busy with work that she tries to make time with her son, Walter. One day they are going to go to the movies, but Christine has to go to work, she says she'll meet Walter right back at home, she's late of course and when she gets home, Walter is missing. She calls the police, but they say she has to wait 24 hours. After a few months, the police tell her they've found her son, she couldn't be happier... that is until she sees a boy who is not her son. But the police will not fess up and admit they messed up, so instead of helping Christine, they treat her horribly and throw in her in an insane asylum and quite looking for her son, but the town's Rev. Gustav Briegleb will not give up and expose the police for the horrible people they are and will do anything to help Christine find her son.Changeling is a great film, one of the best of 2008, you know this is going to be a big contender for Oscar season. I really enjoyed this film, I have to admit it had me in tears, all that this poor woman went through to find her son, the pain and mental mind, well you know the f word, that the police put her through, I felt so horrible for her. Jeffrey Donovan just plays the ultimate jerk who just keeps playing gaslight on Christine Collins forcing a child who is not her son down her throat. Although I think this film could have been a good comedy if they gave her an Asian baby or something and try to convince her then that that's her son, lol, OK, that was so bad, sorry. But seriously, this is a great film, I do highly recommend that you take the chance to see it in the theater if you can.10/10
With this big opening weekend either you're going to see the darker film The Dark Knight or you are going to see something more light hearted like Mamma Mia! Now I work at a movie theater, a lot of people were just assuming that everyone was going to see The Dark Knight, yesterday someone came up disappointed saying "my show sold out"... I looked at her with a smiling face and said "oh, yeah, dark knight, I know"... she said "no, mamma mia", I looked up all surprised, Mamma Mia sold out as well, people were really looking forward to this movie as well. I did see this movie on Saturday and really enjoyed it, as cheesy as it was, I do enjoy musicals, I think the only thing is that this this is the happiest musical that I have ever seen. So it was nice to just sit there and be happy with these characters and you can't help but laugh at the predicaments that they get themselves into.Sophie is a young woman who is about to tie the knot with her loving and adventurous fiancée, Sky, her life is great. She has a very loving mother, Donna, who is running a broke down hotel in Greece and used to be in a girl group called The Donna's. Sophie has one problem, she has never met her dad, she finds her mom's diary and discovers that she has three potential fathers. She invites them all to the wedding putting her mom's name on the invitation. So the three men: Sam, Harry, and Bill come to see her and Sophie is caught in a situation where she doesn't know who's her real dad, but they end up having the time of their lives and enjoying life together.Mamma Mia is the light hearted comedy that I'm sure any musical lover could enjoy. I loved how well paced it was and how the cast looked like they had the ultimate time making this film, that's what made it so much fun. This film also brings a lot of fun energy into you and just keeps you smiling. The songs were very catchy, which I know this musical was based on the songs of Abba, so we have that good old 70's groove going on. I would recommend Mamma Mia, if you're looking to smile, laugh, and dance, I'm sure you'll love to see Mamma Mia. It's a sweet film with the cheesy plot that is so much fun to laugh at, plus it has men in speedo's who are dancing like crazy, where can you go wrong with that? OK, you can, but it's all good.8/10
I just recently viewed The Princess Diaries and over all liked it pretty much, so I figured I would see the sequel. I rented it yesterday and watched it this morning and it seemed to me like it was the same plot as before only with a couple different elements. The film also felt very rushed in some aspects, some of the plots or characters that took place seemed to come and go. Although I'm still not sure since I haven't read the books, but the movie itself was just predictable and a bit too silly at times, it just seemed like it could insult the audience it was aimed at.Mia has graduated college and is off to Genovia to become queen and her grandmother, Clarrise is about to give up her title. But Genovia law is that before Mia is to become queen she must marry someone. She is falling for a young man, Nicolas, but he is also up for the throne as king, so his uncle is trying to set Mia up where she will loose her crown before she could even have it. Mia has to decide wither to go with her heart and let herself love Nicolas or have her duty for her country and marry for Genovia.The Princess Diaries 2 has some cute and funny moments, I won't lie, I did laugh a little bit, but over all I have to say that it just could have been more, you know? The actors didn't seem to click as well as they did in the first film. Not to mention how quickly the character Michael went away and Lily just was there for 5 minutes to make like a semi quick cameo and just be out of the story. If you want too, feel free to watch this movie, it's harmless, but it's not a great movie if you're looking for one.4/10
So far, it seemed like we didn't have many promising candidates for a great horror movie, despite the fact that I did enjoy 28 Days Later, it was very brilliant, it still wasn't exactly on my top favs of the horror genre. But 28 Weeks Later looked interesting, I was curious how they could do a sequel when it seemed to be a promising ending to the first, but the story here really worked! It was so disturbing and had a frightening apocalypse feeling that sent chills down my spin. The movie starts strong and ends strong and doesn't let you get a breath of fresh air.It starts off where in England there is a group of people who are all survivors from the Rage Virus, but they are attacked, including a married couple, it looks like all hope is lost for the wife, but the husband makes a clear escape. 28 weeks later, the US troops are sent to Britain to help destroy the virus and restore the country back. They gather all the survivors that are clean and have put them in a small part of England that is clear of the virus, but still there is so much to be done since a huge part of the country still has corpses and possible killers with the virus. The husband is reunited with his children and tells them that their mother is dead, but they want their old stuff from their old house in the unclean part of England, but they go and end up finding their surviving mom, but it seems like she may have the virus and ends up spreading it, causing total chaos! This movie does not stop with the horror and never lets go, this wasn't even a matter of the jump scares in my case, I think what was so scary was the fact that this movie captured human emotions so well. What people act like in chaos, wither it's bad or good, pulling one to safety, pushing one in the way of danger to save themselves, or the simple love a family and the ultimate feeling of betrayal, fear, and helplessness. 28 Weeks Later is a terrific movie that I highly recommend, it's scary as heck and will keep you thinking for days.9/10
So a few months ago I was watching an internet reviewer who was talking about good Halloween movies to watch. One of the films that he highly recommended was The Monster Squad, the weird thing is being a huge movie buff, I had never heard of this movie. But it looked really cool from the clips he was showing, so I decided to just buy the movie and I am glad I did. One of the things I am a huge fan of is the old Universal horror movies, like Dracula, Frankenstein, The Mummy, The Wolf Man, etc. But during the 80's it was more about making new horror icons like Jason and Freddy. Being brought back together in a clever updated way, we get to see all the icons together being led by Dracula. It's so odd because I don't know if this was a kid's movie, a family movie or a true horror film, I think the answer is yes. I wonder what kind of effect this movie would have had on me if I saw it as a child vs. an adult, but honestly I had an absolute wonderful time watching it in my 20's, and this is definitely a great film to watch during Halloween.The Monster Squad is a club of pre-teens who idolize classic monsters and monster movies and hold their meetings in a tree clubhouse. Sean is given the diary of legendary vampire hunter Van Helsing - but his excitement is toned down when he finds it's written in German. Sean, his best friend Patrick, and the rest of the Monster Squad get their neighbor who is German to translate the diary. The diary describes, in great detail, an amulet that is composed of concentrated good. One day out of every century, as the forces of good and evil reach a balance, the otherwise-indestructible amulet becomes vulnerable to destruction, and the next day of balance falls within a couple days, at the stroke of midnight. The kids realize they must gain possession of the amulet before the day of balance arrives; once they have the amulet, the kids can use it to open a hole in the universe and cast the monsters into Limbo. Dracula, meanwhile, seeks to obtain the amulet before the Monster Squad does, so that the Count can take control of the world.The kids are absolutely hilarious! Almost like seeing if The Goonies took on the old monsters, we have a whole different variety of the cliché kids. Plus they have one of the coolest lines in film history with "Wolfman's got nards!", that was too priceless. Seeing Frankenstein and the little sister together was both charming and very funny to watch. I love that Frankenstein isn't the typical monster that he's normally made out to be since he is more of a tragic figure and he's a good guy in the film. I think why this film is so great is because of the chemistry between the kids and the rest of the cast. Plus I have to admit that I was a weird kid who absolutely adored horror movies and this just took me back. It could take us all back to a time where monsters were cool, even though I'm pretty sure we wouldn't want to defeat them in a battle, but they were fun to talk about and watch on the big screen. Remember Halloween? When it was about getting dressed up and getting candy and coming home and pigging out and watching a scary movie? The Monster Squad gave me the chance to be a kid again and I adore this movie, totally worth the buy.9/10
After the fun time I had watching The Whole Nine Yards, I was looking forward to seeing The Whole Ten Yards. But I watched it last night and I was pretty much disappointed with where they took the story. It just seemed like they took the characters and turned them into something completely different. For me, I'm such a Bruce Willis fan, so when I saw him growing and acting like a bull while he was drunk in one scene, I didn't laugh, I actually wanted to cry for him, it was pretty pathetic what they did to this cool, smooth, charismatic hit man that we knew and loved in the first film. The script and story was just up to par like the first film was, in fact, I would've appreciated it if they just left The Whole Nine Yards alone if they really felt like this one had a chance for a great comedy.Jimmy has changed from this tough guy hit man to a Martha Stuart and Jill is not happy with it. Oz and Cynthia are in a quiet life in hiding from the gangsters. Lazlo is out of prison and wants revenge, so he "kidnaps" Cynthia and now Jimmy, Jill, and Oz get together to save her only to find out there are more twists and turns than they expected. But Jimmy has to go deep back into his roots of being the tough guy, not Mr. Clean.Now don't get me wrong, The Whole Ten Yards has a few laughs here and there, but for the most part I just actually felt bad for Bruce Willis with the silly attempt to be a soft like Martha Stuart type of guy, he's just such a great tough guy, it's hard to see him as anything else. Matthew Perry wasn't as fun as he was in the first movie and neither was Amanda, it just seems like everyone lost their magic and chemistry with each other in this film. I really wish that I loved this film, but I'm having a hard time, I'm sorry.4/10
I'm a Disney addict, anything Disney you throw at me, I'm usually a happy camper. But when Disney and Pixar teamed up, it was like peanut butter and chocolate. These two teams belonged together and it seems like they were the only movie company releasing competent films. Only film I wasn't crazy about was Cars, it's one of those movies that everyone seemed to love that I wasn't falling for. Not to say it was a bad movie, it was good, but the plot really didn't get to me and the animation was good, but nothing spectacular. But apparently it was popular enough to get a sequel, which I have to admit baffled me, but I like to give movies a fair chance. I decided to wait to watch it at home though and actually I'm glad. This movie is a straight to DVD story with a bigger budget.British spy Finn McMissile infiltrates the world's largest untapped oil reserves, owned by a group of "lemon" cars. After being discovered, he is forced to flee and fake his death. Piston Cup champion race car Lightning McQueen returns home to Radiator Springs and reunites with his best friend Mater. When Italian formula race car Francesco Bernoulli challenges McQueen, McQueen and Mater depart to Tokyo, Japan for the Grand Prix. Meanwhile, the lemons, led by Professor Zündapp and Master mind, secretly plot to secure their oil profits by using a weapon disguised as a television camera to ignite the Allinol fuel. McMissile and partner Holley Shiftwell attempt to rendezvous with American spy car at a World Grand Prix promotional event in Tokyo to receive information about the mastermind; Shiftwell and McMissile mistake Mater as their American contact. Now they use Mater to find out the information that could possibly kill McQueen.The things that are good with this movie is that the animation is very sleek and shiny, it looks very beautiful. Some of the sight gags are clever, especially when they are in Japan. Some of the voice actors really give a good performance like Michael Caine. But the spy story has been done a million times. Not to say since this is a kid's film, it's new to them, but that means it's specifically for the children and not for the adults. Also the one thing I did kind of like from the first Cars movie was Mater. Usually the side characters are the one's who steal the show in an animated movie and Mater was charming and funny. So naturally like most sequels, they take the most popular character and exploit the heck out of them. The title should have been "Cars 2: Mater's Adventure" with the way they were going. Not to sound mean, but every time that Mater gets his feelings get hurt, honestly I don't really feel that bad for him. I wonder why it took him actually so long to realize that he's an idiot. It's like the Urkel factor, cue the sad music with his sad face and we are supposed to feel bad for him despite the fact that he's the one causing the chaos. I just didn't find anything too charming about this movie. I'd recommend it just as a rental at home as it is pretty to look at and will entertain the kids. But it would've been better if they just released it straight to video considering the budget that went into it that could've made 5 better movies. 5/10
I just saw See No Evil tonite, not even ever hearing about it, but my friend heard about this movie and rented it and she was just raving to me about it, so I decided to rent it as well and give it a look. I thought there would be some very hard core horror fans who would love this movie and it would have a better rating on IMDb, but I guess by the low rating of 4.9, not too many enjoyed this movie, which I didn't understand why, because I thought that this was a decent horror flick.These deviant rebellious kids are given a second chance to get some time off their punishment if they help clean up a homeless shelter. But things start to happen, horrible things, like one by one they start to be murdered by a huge scary monster that looks human and pokes their eyeballs out as souvenirs. Only three teens are left and need to figure out how to survive against this horrible creature.I would recommend See No Evil for horror fans, at least the ones who truly love the gory flicks, just have fun, it's a good bloody movie that I was scared of. It is good for a stormy night that's for sure, unless that is, you're a scardey cat. :D Just kidding! But seriously, give this movie a better shot, I think it deserves it.6/10
I was really looking forward to I Think I Love My Wife, I saw the commercial advertisement for the DVD and this movie looked like so much fun. So I finally got the rental and watched it this morning and I have to say that I was a bit disappointed with it. You know what lost the major points with me? Now, I know Chris Rock's humor, I know he likes to joke about the white man, but this movie just seemed to keep mentioning the white race which I wasn't impressed with. Just because if it were the other way around with a certain line like "Is your wife white?", now if it was a white woman saying "is your wife black?", most people would have been insulted. I'm just sick of the humor, it's getting old and we need to grow up. The story is just the typical man with a mid life crisis with a typical marriage, at the least the horror version.Richard Cooper is a married man with two beautiful children, awesome job with good pay, a big house, sounds like the perfect life, right? Well, wrong! Him and his wife do not have sex any more and his life has become a bit predictable, that is until he meets and old crush, Nikki and temptation is knocking down the door. Richard plays naive at first acting completely oblivious to her moves, yet when he realizes what she's after, he just keeps hanging out with her risking his job that she visits constantly and family. But Richard tries to remain tough while living a life that he's already over since he's been married.Over all, I Think I Love My Wife isn't a bad film, it just wasn't what I expected. The acting was fine, it was just the story that seemed unbalanced and not to mention the racial lines that were just unnecessary. So if you're looking to watch this film, I would say to give it a look, I think me taking those lines seriously is a bit much, but I'm just sick of that "humor", I think we need to grow past it if we want a better future, you know? But judge for yourself, other than what I mentioned, it's just an average mid life crisis movie, nothing more.3/10
I've seen a lot of horror movies, one's that are real, one's that are supernatural. Old, new, gory, intelligent, but usually you can't get that mix in a horror film and have it come out as a masterpiece. Martyrs broke the mold and took all my doubts away. No film since The Exorcist and Jaws has had such intelligence, style, great script, relatable characters and shock value that had all that and worked. We've had a few that come close but nothing as to what I just witnessed with Martyrs. I heard a little bit about this film in 2010 and read about it in an article. The plot seemed kind of confusing from the way the author wrote about it, so I decided to wait on seeing it. I have never been so disappointed with myself when it came to deciding to wait on a film. I saw this film 4 days ago and still, I'm shaking and can't get it out of my head. Not to say that everyone will have this experience, but Martyrs is a masterpiece of horror cinema that I've been waiting for.A young girl, Lucie, escapes from a factory where she has been imprisoned and physically abused for a lengthy period of time. Lucie is placed in an orphanage, where she is befriended by a young girl named Anna. Anna soon discovers that Lucie believes that she is constantly being terrorized by a ghoulish creature; a horrible, disfigured, emaciated woman. Fifteen years later, Lucie bursts into a seemingly normal family's home and kills them all with a shotgun. Lucie calls Anna to tell her that she has finally found and killed the people responsible for her childhood abuse. Upon arriving, Anna is horrified at the carnage, and worries that Lucie may have murdered the wrong people. But after a vicious attack on Lucie from her "ghost", who turns out was a victim who she left before she escaped the factory when she was a child, Anna finds out that maybe Lucie wasn't wrong and things take a turn from worse to the ultimate Hell.When the films Saw and Hostel were released, they were dubbed as "too hard to handle" and given the new genre of "torture porn", I hate that term by way. Those films are a walk in the park compared to a lot of movies that I've seen to be honest. A lot of people are categorizing Martyrs in the torture porn genre and it's ticking me off. Saw and Hostel use the gore and violence as the plot devices, Martyrs doesn't use the violence as a way to just make the audience squirm, but instead you're taken into this dark world that you don't want to ever be apart of. The performances are just magnificent, especially to Mylène Jampanoï who plays Lucie. Morjana Alaoui plays Anna and pulls in a heart wrenching performance. The direction, the lighting, the sets, the script, I couldn't find any flaws that are not nitpicking.I literally feel like I've been strangled with this film, it actually made me cry. It was so much deeper than what I was expecting. I'm about to give away the ending, so please don't read on because no one should know what is going to happen if they haven't seen this film yet. First off when Anna is tortured, it's unbearable to watch her go through this for days, she's force fed some weird unknown food that looks like gruel. Then some giant man comes in and just beats her nearly to death. When she's "reached the final stage", which is surprising to the people who are doing this to her, they skin her alive. She "lets go" and comes back and you find out that the people who did this to her and the others do this because they want to know what happens after death. So Anna dies, but comes back and tells the leader, Mademoiselle what she saw, but in a whisper so the audience can't hear. The society comes to the house excited to hear what is beyond death and when asked by a member outside Mademoiselle's locked door she simply replies "keep doubting" and shoots herself. Couldn't have been a more perfect ending, because what happens after death should remain a mystery as everyone has their own interpretation. Martyrs is much deeper than I expected, I underestimated this film and now it's one of the best horror movies I have ever seen in my life. As to the remake that is now supposedly in the green light now, please see this movie first, because I give a lot of remakes a chance, but this one already is looking really bad since it was bought by the producers of Twilight. Martyrs should be respected and is a true masterpiece.10/10
An excellent surprise, Hustle and Flow was a great film that exceeded my expectations. I remember during the Oscars, I hated this film, because to me, Jon Stuart saying how Martin Scorcese hasn't won one Oscar, but 3-6 Mafia has won because of a song called "It's hard out here for a pimp", it was insulting. But I figured I shouldn't judge and give it a shot after all this time, and I'm glad I did, because I understand the flow(no pun) of the movie and what was needed.It's about a man, Djay, he's a pimp and he's having a hard time with his ho's and trying to make it. But he knows he has talent and wants to make something of himself, he gets together with an old friend, and together they create a cool beat album. But there is one problem, getting the record out and played on the radio. Djay has an idea to get an old friend from Memphis called Skinny Black to spread the demo, but that's a problem when no one is taking him seriously.Hustle and Flow is a great and dark film about the gritty scary truth of being in the tough neighborhoods and trying to pay the rent when you can't even get your act together yourself. It was truly inspiring and touching that Djay didn't want to rap for money, but to get his voice heard. I apologize for insulting this movie, it was a good one.8/10
My friend saw this movie in the theater and just wouldn't be quiet about how awesome it was. Then I had another friend who saw it who also and said it was a great film, well, I couldn't wait when I found out that it was out for rental. I didn't hesitate when I saw it and I watched it this morning and I have to say that this film definitely kept me going, it was so scary to see how much of a possible future we have. It was so realistic and just scary to think of how fast we turn on each other. Not to mention how we take for granted the sound of a child or a baby's cry, we complain about it all the time, did you ever wonder what the world would be like without that sound? The year is 2027, a world where there are no young people. In fact, the youngest person was 18 years old and was murdered, there are no children, and it's not possible for a woman to get pregnant. But when Theo gets back in touch with his wife, she begs him to help a woman who got pregnant somehow. He must help her in this savage world and time where she will be killed for being an illegal immigrant. The task gets harder and harder when there is a group of terrorists after them, not to mention the government.Children of Men is a truly horrific movie that everyone in my opinion needs to see. I don't know why it got to me so bad, but that I think this future may be a strong possibility. The film in itself was very brilliant and makes you think. The casting couldn't have been more perfect. Clive Ownen was just amazing and embraced his role as Theo and was such a lovable character, you just rooted for him and the girl to make it all the way. This is a sad movie, but definitely a must see.8/10
Honestly from the moment when I saw the trailer for Paul Blart: Mall Cop, I knew I wanted to see it. It looked like a great new comedy that we needed, it's always fun to root for the underdog, right? But I did have to wait for the rental, fun economy, right? So I was able to get it today and you know what? It really wasn't what I had expected at all, even though it had some really fun moments, over all the story was way too much and tried too much to be like Die Hard. The film took a complete 180 where this sweet lovable guy turns into Travis Bickle(Taxi Driver). I don't know why they kept turning this film around, not to mention that with the exception of Kevin James, they picked the most horrible cast to carry this movie.When Paul Blart fails the New Jersey State Police training, he is reduced to being a "rent a cop" security guard at the mall. During dinner with his mom and daughter, Maya, they try to cheer him up and want him to start dating again. Blart's ex-wife had married him for the green card, had a daughter with him, and then abandoned them. While on patrol at work, Blart passes by Amy's kiosk and she gives him a smile which distracts him enough for him to run face-first into a display car. Back at base Blart has to take the new guy, Veck Sims, out on another patrol to train him. On Black Friday Amy, Stuart, and Veck are in the bank to cash their paychecks. Blart is heading there too but the owner of the arcade asks Blart to help him close the store. When a gang breaks in through the service entrance and prepares to take over the mall by force, Blart is focused on playing Rock Band. The robbers clear the mall and take hostages in the bank. When Amy tells Veck to get down, he reveals that he is the ringleader of the gang. Veck plans to use credit card codes to steal $30 million, in order to fly to Cayman Islands, and to take the hostages with them. It's now up to Paul to take the bad guys down Die Hard style and save Amy and the day.Over all, I would not say this is the worst movie I've ever seen, not by far, it does have a few good laughs here and there. It just went into different directions and most of the funny scenes were used in the trailer already, so it was something that I was expecting. Also not to mention that this movie had the most unrealistic situations, for example, Paul tries to leap from a speeding car to a speeding van, but he misses and falls down, somehow he gets back up like nothing happened and continues to run and climb fences. I know fear makes you do some crazy things, but that was just completely unbelievable as well as the "love story" and there was no chemistry with James and Mays. I would say if you want a couple little laughs, rent it, but otherwise, I wouldn't really say go out of your way to see it, it's not Kevin James' best work, he can do much better.3/10
I wasn't at all interested in seeing Alpha Dog when it first came out, but my friend's brother had bought it when it was released onto DVD and he said that it was a great film and that Bruce Willis was in it, enough said, lol. I know it's ridicules, but I am such a Bruce Willis fan, so I rented this a couple days ago and watched it, I have to say that from what I was expecting, this turned out to be a pretty good film. It was a scary thing to watch since we have Justin Timberlake being introduced into the world of acting, but he was actually doing a good job, even though I laughed a few times since he's a white boy playing a ghetto guy. Still, he and the rest of the cast did a great job of this extremely sad story that led to the brutal murder of an innocent 15 year old teenager who had nothing to do with what their intentions were.Johnny Trulove is a notorious drug dealer in California who is loved by most since he seems to be such a good guy and takes good care of his customers. His closest customers are like family and come over all the time. But when an extremely sad and pathetic druggie comes over, Jake Mazursky demanding that he needs more drugs, but doesn't have the money, he and Johnny get into a huge fight. Jake comes back and breaks into Johnny's house and takes the TV and does some pretty sick things, then Johnny sees Jake's little brother walking down the street and kidnaps him. Now while his brother, Zack, is a hostage, he actually ends up partying with his boys and becomes one of them. But Johnny is so freaked out at what could happen when Zack's rich parents find out that he's thinking murder for the kid.Alpha Dog starts off as this dark drama with some comedy mixed in, but then takes a brutal turn that makes the movie into something extremely sad and disturbing. The only thing I wish they had made more clear to the teenagers and possible kids watching this movie was what horrible things that drugs could do besides just not think clearly. Because there were some moments where they made it look like drugs could be OK and fun to do every once in a while. But I can't change the movie, however, I do recommend this film, it was pretty good and definitely got the story through to you.8/10
Bolt, I honestly don't know what to say about this film because honestly I feel bad about saying this, I love Disney so much, but this movie didn't do anything for me. First off this was one of the strangest casts, I do like John Travolta, but I just couldn't see him as Bolt for some reason, his voice just threw me off completely. Miley Cyrus, this movie became more about her and I think they were just trying to attract her fans to this movie. The only thing that I really did enjoy from Bolt was the hamster, Rhino, he was just absolutely cute, he could have been annoying, but he's like the ultimate fan that loves you so much that it turns around and you like him right back. The animation, it was decent, 3-D is just becoming so huge this year I think. The story is just The Truman Show with a dog, it also kind of reminded me of Homeward Bound, so this is something we've seen before.A super-dog named BOLT, whose days are filled with danger and intrigue-at least until the cameras stop rolling. When the star of a hit TV show is accidentally shipped from his Hollywood sound stage to New York City, he begins his biggest adventure yet-a cross-country journey through the real world to get back to his owner and co-star, Penny. Armed only with the delusions that all his amazing feats and powers are real, and the help of two unlikely traveling companions-a jaded, abandoned house cat named Mittens and a TV-obsessed hamster named Rhino -Bolt discovers he doesn't need superpowers to be a hero.While I wasn't into this movie, I think it's a great family film, especially for the kids, it's a guaranteed fun time for them. The characters are cute, but it's Rhino and Mittens who steal the show. I don't know about you, but I think this movie had a little bit of a rip off from Animaniacs, those pigeons in the beginning reminded me too much of the Goodfeathers and Mittens reminded me a bit of Rita, if you've seen the show, you know what I'm talking about and will agree with me. Bolt is worth the look, but I'm not that impressed with it, watch it with the kids and for the fun 3-D stuff. The story is just a little unoriginal but the characters make it worth your while.6/10
Poltergeist 3 was one of those mistake sequels that was an unnecessary movie to make in the first place. The second one ended the story just right and made us feel comfortable with it. The third Poltergeist might have worked, but the only characters that came back was Carol Anne and Tabith, I think her name was, you know that lady with the annoying voice? Well, it just didn't work as well without the other cast, not to mention they felt like a shove off with this plot.Carol Anne is sent off to live with her aunt and uncle in Chicago temporally, she is going to a special school to help her out with all her trauma from home. But the ghost have followed her again to wreak havoc on her and her new family. Only this time, there are more "jumpy" scenes to freak the audience out.It isn't a terrible sequel, it just wasn't necessary and it was sad to look at that little girl's face knowing she died during the filming of this movie. Such a short life, but at least she'll always be remembered and a great treasure for horror fans. But I would only recommend this sequel for those who wish to complete the sequel. Like I said, it isn't bad, it just wasn't fair to the original movies and it was sad to see Carol Anne in her last days, but I guess you'll just have to judge for yourself.4/10
I'm starting to wonder if there is bad Disney/Pixar film, I mean, normally when we think of the combo, it does equal gold, we automatically know that everyone is going to love this movie, it's just a matter of comparison to the other animation films. I'm not just saying this because I had a good time when I was watching this, I'm very serious, this is my favorite Disney/Pixar film. It's completely worth the ticket price, this couldn't have been a more perfect film. Everything about WALL·E is just beyond great: the characters, the story, and the incredible animation. But the thing that I loved about WALL·E is it's message, I know that it does go a little over board with the "jog or get fat", "throw your garbage away", and the "we've become too dependent on machines" message, but I felt this was the most charming way to present it to the children who have to grow up in a world where they're going to have to worry about global warming, this may open their eyes a little.WALL·E is a robot that is left all alone on Planet Earth, Earth is now covered with garbage. The humans have left onto a corporate ship and are living their lives care free and well, thought free. WALL·E has been collecting little human pieces here and there and making them into his treasures, but the one thing he really wants is a friend. One day a ship lands with a female robot, Eve, who WALL·E just adores, but Eve is on a mission to find a plant to bring back onto the human ship to show that Earth is safe. But when the ship grabs Eve, WALL·E follows her and discovers the mutiny that is afoot on the ship. Everyone is overweight, can't walk, can't think for themselves, and let's all the robots do all the work for them. But WALL·E and Eve are on the mission to get them back to Earth and give it a little love.WALL·E is seriously the best movie I have seen this summer, I just adored this movie, it has great laughs, cute jokes and is entertaining for the whole family. Like I said before, when it's Disney/Pixar you just can't go wrong. WALL·E is one of their most lovable characters ever and was like the robot version of Charlie Chaplin, he brought great slap stick to the story. This movie delivers everything you can imagine and much more, not to mention a great message. I highly recommend this movie for everyone, it's just a very wonderful movie that anyone can enjoy. The animation, I can't believe how far we've come, but this was a beautifully made movie and couldn't have been better. I loved WALL·E, this is a movie that will bring you plenty of laughs for your summer.10/10
In 2009 there was a huge phenomenon buzz around the film Paranormal Activity, bringing the scare back with simple effects and noises around the house that would make the hair on your arms stand up. I can see why Hollywood would want to capitalize on this since it was so successful, so a bigger budget film was made with the critiques on the poster on how this film is not only scarier than Paranormal Activity, but even scarier than the proclaimed most frightening film of all time The Exorcist. I love how almost every scary movie wants to upstage that title when I would say personally that The Exorcist raised that bar too high for a lot of other films of the genre to reach. My grip when people said that Paranormal Activity wasn't scary because you didn't see anything was that in my opinion, it's what you don't see that is very scary. I think the producers of Insidious took that criticism too far and gave us what started off as a very creepy movie and gave us way too much to be truly frightened.Renai and Josh Lambert have recently moved into a new house with their three children. One night, as Dalton is playing, he hears noises in the attic and goes to investigate. He steps on an old ladder to turn on the light, when it breaks, causing Dalton to fall. He starts screaming after looking at something in a shadowy corner. Renai and Josh help him. The next day Josh goes to wake Dalton, but he does not move. They rush him to the hospital where the doctors say he is in an unexplained coma. Three months later he is still in a coma and they bring him home to care for him. Over the next few days, disturbing events begin to occur. While Renai plays piano and the baby is sleeping, Renai hears whispering from the baby monitor. Then as she gets closer to the stairs, someone yells "I want him now!" Renai believes the house is haunted. But it turns out that there maybe more to this house than just being haunted.The beginning was pretty strong, even though we have no real connection to these characters so I don't have much sympathy for them, the film does have some genuine scares. Mainly they rely on the jump scares, but for the most part the ghosts are pretty creepy. However I do have a couple complaints, one being that I think seeing the ghosts killed it for me because if they don't scare you, they look goofy and to me they looked a little goofy and too CGI. The devil is sharpening his knife fingers to a pleasant song which I know is supposed to be creepy but for me killed the moment and I was just laughing like crazy, not only that, but the way he moved was too typical and cliché. Then the ending, that drove me crazy because it seemed like the writers just gave up and went into a M. Night Shamalamadingdong territory where the ending went into a totally whacky land. The whole "being haunted was inherited from my daddy" thing was bogus and such a cop out. I kinda wished they maybe would have made the boy just pure evil, like an Omen thing. Would I recommend this film? I guess this is the Paranormal Activity for the teenagers, now I'm not trying to insult the adults who found this film frightening but honestly after all the films I've seen, this movie is nothing.4/10
I remember seeing the trailer for Blindness back in April, I thought this looked like a terrific film and was just looking forward to it. I had the opportunity to see it this last Tuesday, I wasn't too sure though on what to expect, was this a horror movie, was it a suspense thriller or maybe was it meant to speak to society? Well, all of thee above, it had some really scary moments, very intense moments, as well as showing us how we take something so precious for granted, our sight. However this film did throw me off, it was a little slow paced at times and some scenes could have been shorter as well as the story would have some strange moments that really just made it seem like it was a straight horror film while I think this should have been a more balance mixture of each genre that I described before. I was never that big on Julianne Moore either, but she pulls in a great performance and was very strong, she carries the story pretty well.We open with one man caught in the middle of a horrible rush hour, all of a sudden he looses his sight, a man offers to drive him home and steals his car. The man and his wife go to the eye doctor, the eye doctor doesn't see any symptoms that would prove anything causing his blindness. But the next morning, the eye doctor is blind as well, he and his wife go to a government holding center where they fear that the blindness is contagious as the blindness spreads throughout the country. But things get dramatically worse as the blind people start to turn on one another and make things very violent and fatal towards each other.Blindness is a very powerful movie and is over all worth the watch, I do have a couple problems with the movie, like the pacing of the movie as well as the story. We never find out what causes the blindness, was it a disease, was it a terrorist plot, was it technology...? It's just a very interesting film, I had to think Blindness over for a while, I was walking out of the theater and someone said it was the worst film she had ever seen in her life and when I went to the bathroom and saw another person who saw the movie said that it was such a powerful movie and that she was very pleased with the film and how it was made. So I'm going to say this movie is for a certain kind of person, it has it's flaws, but if you are truly a film buff, I would say that it's worth the look.7/10
I'm not sure why I decided to rent Georgia Rule, but I guess you could just color me intrigued since this is the film that I heard where Lindsay Lohan caused all that trouble on being late constantly or not showing up on set. I really had no idea what this movie was about, but I watched it last night expecting probably an over the top chick flick, but actually it wasn't bad. Over all I would say that the story was very good and the actors did a good job, I mean say what you want about Lindsay, she is a good actress you have to admit. The only thing I was a bit disappointed with was the ending, but I'm not going to give that away, it's something you'll just have to see for yourselves. But the rest of the story was really good, funny at times, and very touching.Rachel is a young trouble maker from California coming to Idaho to see her grandmother, Georgia, and stay with her for the summer. Rachel already stirs up quite a bit of trouble around the town when she messes around with a Christian boy, she makes the moves on a widowed man, and the fact that she is very blunt about things. But things take a different turn when she tells Simon, the widower and her boss, that she was molested by her step dad. He tells Georgia and Georgia calls her daughter, Rachel's alcoholic mother, Lily, comes to find out if that's the truth or not, Rachel for once doesn't wanna cause trouble and tells her mom it's all a lie. Georgia won't tolerate this though, she knows there's something wrong and has to let Rachel know that there are people there who love her and remind her the difference between right and wrong.The story was really good I think, some of the characters could have used a little more developing, but it still worked. Was it a chick flick? Oh, yeah. But I think this is one of those rare one's that I don't mind. The girls did a great job on acting, so did Dermot Mulroney who played Simon. The ending was just a bit flat and I felt like there could have been a better conclusion, but you'll see if you watch it. But I would recommend it if you are just looking for a fun little flick for the afternoon. Georgia Rule is a good movie that will make you laugh and will touch your heart.6/10
Now my mom and I are really funny, our fears are complete opposite, ventriloquist dummies freak her out so badly, but I never had that fear. Never saw the point, I thought they're just dolls, what's the big deal? But for some reason this movie freaked me out more than you could stand it, I watched it in the dark and had to turn the light on for a few minutes just to take a deep breath. This movie was so scary and was so intense, I was incredibly impressed. But, there is a but, there were a few flaws that the movie had that I will discuss in a moment.Jamie and his wife are about to have a normal romantic night, but when a mysterious package comes to their door holding a creepy looking ventriloquist dummy, Jamie's wife is murdered brutally. He goes home to bury her and find out what happened to his wife trying to prove his innocence from the police who think he killed her. In the mean time he finds out a horrific story behind his family's dark history of the death of Mary Shaw, the woman who couldn't live without her dolls.Dead Silence is incredibly scary and the story worked, but there were a few confusing moments, like the doll not being taken in by the police for evidence, and the ending in some ways still didn't make any sense. But I would really recommend this movie for a good scare, it was good to know that some director still get it, even as cliché'd as horror movies could be, he made everything work and Dead Silence will be a haunting masterpiece for years to come.6/10
Ah, God bless the 1990's, frankly, it rocked growing up in this decade. I had The Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, Power Rangers, X-Men and Batman: The Animated Series. I remember waking up early every Saturday morning to see the new episode of Batman, it was such a great series was different against all the other cartoons, it was extremely dark and edgy, especially for a children's cartoon. That's one of the reasons I adore Batman, he's unlike any other super hero's we know, he not only has a reason for his dark side but can kick butt naturally, sorry, had to say it. So I didn't even realize that there was a movie that was made around the series called Batman: Mask of the Phantasm and I saw it on sale for five dollars and figured I'd give it a shot. One thing that confused me was how this movie was overlooked because it's such a terrific movie, the only thing I could assume is that during this time Batman Forever was also being released and this was animated so just disregarded sadly. But this is one of the best animated movies I have ever seen.During a conference of crime bosses held in a Gotham City skyscraper, gangster Chuckie Sol is killed by a mysterious cloaked figure shortly after Batman bursts in on the meeting. Batman is blamed for the death. In a flashback to Bruce's college days, we see him meet his old girlfriend Andrea in a cemetery while visiting his parents' grave. Bruce has vowed to avenge his parents' murder by dedicating his life to fighting crime. He dons a mask and black ninja-styled outfit and foils an armored car robbery, but is discouraged that the criminals do not fear him. Around the same time, he begins a romance with Andrea. Eventually, Bruce decides to quit his plan on becoming a crime-fighter and proposes marriage to Andrea. However, Andrea mysteriously leaves Gotham with her father, ending her engagement to Bruce. Believing that he has lost his only chance of having a normal life, Bruce finally dons the mask of Batman. In the present, the killer finds and kills another gangster, Buzz Bronski. Batman discovers evidence linking Beaumont with a number of organized crime figures. He discovers there may be more to the story of this masked phantom then he realizes.The whole feel of the film, if you were to just take the animation alone, this was superbly made. That's one of the reasons that the series was so well loved as well, just the whole atmosphere of the story was on track and you felt like you were in Gotham City. Even the acting was very good, this had a real old detective film feel to it, the love story between Andrea and Bruce was a perfect addition and it didn't over do their love, it was just perfect and had a good close to it. It was also great to have our beloved Joker in the mix of the story, how could we not include him? He's one of the greatest villains of all time. If you do get the chance to see Batman: Mask of the Phantasm, seriously take it, this is a very overlooked film and deserves all the credit it can possibly get.8/10
I saw the trailer for The Mist a while back, I thought it was just going to be a rip off of John Carpenter's The Fog, but after hearing some great reviews on IMDb, I got excited and my boyfriend and I decided to see it tonite. The beginning was starting off pretty slow, so I was thinking that this was going to be an average thriller, but about twenty minutes into the film, things really pick up. Things get scarier, more intense, The Mist had my digging my fingernails into my boyfriend's arm. I don't think we've had a better Sci-Fi film in a long time. I was thinking about how much this movie kind of reminded me of "Night of the Living Dead", where everyone gets so scared and tense that they quickly turn on each other. It had a very similar ending, it just had me screaming. I can't give the ending away, but believe me, this is a movie not to be missed.In a small town, David, his son, and his wife have just been through a horrible storm. David and his son the next day decide to go to the grocery store, where everyone is a buzz of the horrifying storm. But something even worse happens, a man comes screaming across the street, begging them to close the doors, he has blood on his face, he's screaming how his friend was just killed by a mysterious mist. The mist has now surrounded the grocery store. After trying to figure out a way to save the food, a bag boy is killed by a vicious creature in the mist, the group now knows how serious this is. But things are getting worse with the local religious nut, Mrs. Carmody, she's turning this situation from horrifying to savage and turning everyone against another. But David along with a group full of people know that it's now or never.The Mist is one of the most horrific movies I have ever seen. It had me jumping every second and shaking, the great thing was that it wasn't a movie that had things or loud noise jump out at you, it was so natural, the whole setting and story just gets under your skin. A big round of applause towards the actress who played Mrs. Carmody, I couldn't believe how much I just wanted to jump into the screen and just kill her, but she was that convincing, she gets to you. Everyone did a fantastic job in this film, it's truly horrifying and will get to you. The scene where they find out about the marine knowing something about the monsters outside was one of the most intense scenes that I have seen this year in film. I promise you, this movie is going to be in the Sci-Fi classics for generations to come.9/10
Oh, the memories I have of this movie, I don't know why I never reviewed it before, I think I kind of forgot about it, I saw it when I was just a kid. But recently I was watching Mystery Science Theater 3000: The Movie and this was the pick for their big feature, it was funny because it was the first movie I had seen before I saw it on one of my favorite shows of all time. So I knew we had the movie on VHS and decided to watch it again, while it is mockingly silly, it has all the clichés of a typical 1950's sci fi film, with cheesy backrounds, bad acting, goofy make up and weird effects, this is the recipe for a disaster movie. But in some sense it actually gives right back to the audience where it had great intentions and you consider what this movie was up against at the time with terrific movies such as The Day the Earth Stood Still, The Thing From Another Planet, and War of the Worlds, this in itself is a small little gem.Dr. Cal Meacham, a noted scientist, receives an unusual substitute for electronic condensers that he ordered. They are un-Earthly in their ability to carry overloads of electricity; he sends a letter to the company that supplied the parts, and receives a package which appears to be a catalog. He begins ordering parts from it, and eventually is given a kit to build a very complex communication device called an interocitor. When the device is finished, Meacham receives a message on it: a mysterious man named Exeter appears on the device's screen and tells him he has passed the test he was given. His ability to build the device demonstrates that he is gifted enough to be part of the special research project Exeter is running. Intrigued, Meacham accepts an invitation to visit Exeter's facility, arriving at the facility, Meacham finds an international group of top-flight scientists already present, Dr. Ruth Adams. But Cal is almost immediately suspicious of the odd-looking group of men leading the project. It is then that Cal and Ruth learn that Exeter and his band are aliens from the planet Metaluna, come to Earth seeking scientists to help them defend their planet in the war against the evil Zagons.Over all this is a fun sci fi film that delivers in the cheesy good times. I do think that this doesn't compare to other great classics, but on it's own, you have to give it credit for trying a new spin on the alien story. I just wish they had different actors, I think I just couldn't take them too seriously, especially Rex Reason and his voice, is just a little bit too deep and silly. His chemistry with Faith Domergue wasn't exactly dead on. As bad as the effects are and as silly as the characters can be, it's still a fun movie that I will never get tired of making fun of as well as it made a great choice for Mystery Science Theater 3000. I would recommend it for those who are fans of the 1950's era sci fi movies, they are good fun and always a pleasure to watch, for those who don't like them that much, I'd say steer clear then of This Island Earth.6/10
If you had read my comments you know my hatred for most romantic comedies, as they are the same formula over and over again with different names and actors. 2011 had a movie staring hot on the rise Natalie Portman called No Strings Attached. An intelligent romantic comedy about the realism on relationships, how sometimes there is no way to get around having feelings for someone in our busy world. We want that connection with someone and sometimes let it go before we realize that we may have lost someone special. So almost in taking her role too seriously, Mila Kunis who starred with Natalie Portman in Black Swan playing a girl who is almost a little jealous of the lead's talent, takes on the same like role. Playing the girl a small bit different by being someone who does believe in love but thinks that it's something wrong with her on why she can't find the right guy for her. Can Justin Timberlake prove her wrong? What could have been a very creative formula in making fun of how romantic comedies have taken over most women's perceptions of what love should be instead of what's reality, it turns back into the same tired old formula it's bashing in the first place.Jamie has the task of trying to recruit Dylan to interview for a job with GQ magazine, he comes to New York and after interviewing for the position learns from Jamie that he has been given an offer to work for GQ. Not knowing anyone else in the city he and Jamie quickly develop a friendship. One night, while hanging out at Jamie's apartment watching a romantic comedy, they get on the topic of sex and relationships. They come to the conclusion that sex should not come with so many emotional attachments. Both feeling the need for a physical connection they agree to have sex without emotion or commitment involved. After several trysts together Jamie comes to the realization that this isn't really what she wants, and she would like to start dating again and informs Dylan that they need to stop. But after many failed attempts on both parts they are both in a supposed shock when they realize they really like each other.You name it, the cliché is there: the gay best friend, the misunderstanding, the workaholics, the walking down the street to some cheesy sappy pop song looking into the sky wondering how a love could go so wrong, the talking to an old person making the protagonist realize how they were wrong and must do something so dramatic to win the person back and of course the big make up kiss in front of a big crowd of people who feel the need to applause despite the fact that they don't know what is going on. Despite a lot of flaws the thing I do give credit too is that Mila and Justin do have some great chemistry bouncing back and forth off each other. Although they are such beautiful people and it's hard to believe that they are that hard up for some loving. Would I say this is a terrible romantic comedy? Not necessarily, I didn't feel my time was totally wasted, but I would recommend No Strings Attached over this as that was more realistic and had a better feel to it. But I think this was over all a good way to waste some time if you're looking for light hearted fun as the two leading actors make it worth your while. It's just a tired old formula that I wish could have a different ending for once. But that isn't coming any time soon as Hollywood needs to stick with the safe formula of having everyone live happily ever after and nothing more after that.5/10
I really was not at all interested in seeing Babel, but when I heard it was nominated for best picture I have to admit that I was a little curious, it's the first time I've seen four out of the five movies nominated, so why not? While it was better than expected, I'm still not sure how to put that sentence. It's seriously one of those movies that is very interesting yet really has no point. I know there are some people on here that say they understood what the movie was and what it was about, but I honestly can't see how, because the movie connects together, yet has no moral or lesson.Basically it has four stories, one of two Americans in Morroco, the wife is accidentally shot and is on the struggle for her life. She was shot by a little boy who's father bought him and his brother a rifle to shoot animals for food. Then the parent's children have been rushed over the border by their nanny who is a Mexican illegal immigrant. Then the man who gave the rifle to the man who sold it to the father is in Japan and his daughter who is a deaf mute is finding it hard to fit into her world and is very sexually frustrated.Babel is truly an interesting movie, I don't know if it's for all, it takes a little patience, at least I was able to get through it and was interested on how it was going to end, it was like a TV show and you just had to know what the next part was going to be like. I'm not sure if it will win best picture, but good luck to the crew, but it seems like so far, it's just another "Crash".8/10
The Fast and the Furious, I remember in 2001 this was the must see movie. I was in high school at the time and I remember the weekend that it opened strangely enough, and I remember the Monday at school, all the guys were just screaming how cool this film was, how "badass" it was, it was so ridicules. So, I decided to steer clear of the fast and the furious films, it just seemed like a waste of time. But recently one of my friends told me that I should give these movies a chance. So I decided to go ahead and see what they were about, plus I had a coupon for a free rental and there was nothing else better to watch it seemed. So I watched the first two fast and the furious films this afternoon, and for the first film, I have to say that it lived up to everything I would've expected.Brian is a cop in LA and is going undercover into the deep dark pimp my ride world of street racing. He meets the head of the LA races, Dominic, who has a gang of people who are loyal drivers and race for money, also a sister who Brian falls for, what a shock, huh? But there's bad news, there is a rival race gang in the area, The Fast And The Furious became quickly from an action movie to a mystery thriller of who's gang is trying to get the major pimp your ride engines for money. So Brian of course starts to like the gang and wants to become one of them, what another shock.When it comes down to it The Fast and the Furious is the most predictable and horribly written piece of a film you could think of. I don't understand how others, besides a teenage guy, could get into these films. I shouldn't have rented the sequels, just because now I have to watch them to get my money's worth :P But I think it is just silly all the major over the top special effects, it has a pointless plot as well as it's sexist. I'm not saying that to be a pain in the butt, but all the women in this film were used as mostly sex objects, they had no development. But I guess that's what to expect from a film like The Fast and the Furious. Oh, well, at least I could say I saw these films.4/10
I remember back in the day when Jersey Girl came out and it was right around the time the "Bennifer" days were coming to an end and we just suffered the mass bomb that was "Gigli". Many were calling this movie "Gigli 2", I just couldn't believe they would put Jennifer Lopez and Ben Affleck together in a film again after all the innocent bystanders had to put up with, but they did. But I don't know why, maybe because it's already 4 years later after all that craziness, I decided to go ahead and rent Jersey Girl and just see what it was about. I watched it last night and I couldn't believe my eyes, I actually liked this movie. It wasn't your typical romantic comedy, it was something different and really enjoyable. Kevin Smith, who is more famous for Clerks, made a funny and genuinely good film that anyone can enjoy.Gertie Trinke is a little girl who is telling her story about her family and how they came to be. Her father, Ollie, was once a successful man in New York who was the publicity for famous musicians. But when his wife Gertrude dies in childbirth with their daughter, Ollie has to learn to grow up, but he looses his job after calling Will Smith a no body who won't get another movie. So Ollie and his dad raise Gertie, who teaches Ollie that there's more to life than just the riches.Jersey Girl is a good film, I don't know why anyone would say that this is a bad film, I understand people not liking it, but the story was very decent and the acting was I'd say above average. One of the things I loved was that the story was very human, the little girl who played Gertie, Raquel Castro, was perfect for the role and didn't over do anything or made her character annoying. Ben Affleck, who I normally cannot watch in a movie was very good in Jersey Girl, his little talk with his infant girl about loosing his wife was touching. Maybe because I'm a girl or something, maybe that's why I loved the film, but I just thought it was good and I do recommend it.7/10
I was so curious as to what they would do in the sequel of Speed, I just watched Speed today and absolutely loved it! So, I can understand why Keanu turned down the movie, first off not only the script was bad, but the coincidences were beyond ridiculous of Sandra Bullock being in the same position twice and Jason Patrick?! He was so scared of doing a great movie like The Lost Boys, but yet he couldn't hesitate to do this movie? The movie just lost it's course and didn't work on any level, if it had different characters, maybe, but these great actors should know better and check twice before signing onto these sequels.Annie is with this new policeman, Alex, and he surprises her with cruise tickets. He is planning on asking her to marry him, but that is shortly interrupted when Willaim Defoe is now the super duper bad guy. He is upset that he designed the ships computer system but gets no credit, so guess what? He decides the best way to avenge this is to blow it up! But with Alex on board... yup... you guessed it, he's gonna stop William and save the day! Good for him! Speed 2: Cruise Control was just a money maker that is truly a fake movie that was really sad. The acting was really bad and Sandra's character went from admirable to just plain annoying. Alex had no character or any sympathy. The explosions were lame and the plot was just beyond unbelievable, poor William, he was probably on medication when he said yes to making this movie. Well, just please stay away from this movie, it'll be a waste of your time.2/10
The other day when I was looking for a movie to rent I came across Death Proof, I wasn't interested in seeing it, but my boyfriend got excited because it was Quentin Tarrentino, and he's a huge fan. So we rented it and while I was expecting to hate it, it turned out to be the complete opposite; my boyfriend hated it but I loved it. I thought it was one of the most unique movies I have seen in a while. While the beginning was typical Tarrentino where we have pointless dialog and trying to get into characters that are hard to understand why we are supposed to like them, the film then picks up when Kurt Russell enters the scene as one of the scariest and most realistic villains, Stuntman Mike. He is one of Hollywood's best secrets, he always manages to bring in a great performance and makes the story turn into something incredibly interesting.We start off with a few girls who seem to be famous, they do billboard covers and are just spending their evening at a bar with some close friends. We then are introduce to Stuntman Mike who is creepy, but comes off as very charming and pretty safe, he gives one of the girls a ride home, but kills her in his "death proof" car and then kills the other girls in a horrible car accident. Since it seems like a typical accident, he is let go after killing all the girls. But he doesn't know what is coming to him when he messes with the wrong group of girls.I have to say that the last car chase scene between the three girls and Mike was a classic and will not be forgotten in my book. Despite how strangely this movie was shot, we start it off as looking like a bad 70's movie, then into black and white, then into color, and then into a modern looking film, the story was fantastic. I'm looking forward to renting Planet Terror. I heard that it was better than Death Proof, so that's gotta be good, right? Well, hopefully, I don't want to be disappointed, but Death Proof was excellent and I would recommend it to anyone.9/10
I remember reading Inherit the Wind in my high school, we kinda watched most of the film, but since I haven't seen it in almost 5 years, I figured to watch this movie again and give an adult's point of view. Another thing that was interesting to me about this film is that my dad is a minister and I am still searching for what I truly believe in, so I could relate to this story fully now and really understand the pain that Bert must have been going through. It's a scary thing standing up to someone who will never accept anything other than their beliefs.Bert is a biology teacher in one of the most religious towns in the south and he has begun teaching evolution vs. creation, meaning he's not teaching from the bible, he's teaching the scientific ways. It's not that he doesn't believe, he's just giving a different view to the kids other than religion is the be all and end all of their world. Well, the town goes crazy and wants Bert to burn for his teachings, so two lawyers have been assigned to battle it out for the case of science vs. religion.The reason why this movie is so excellent isn't just the terrific acting, it's the story that a lot of people I'm sure could relate to one way or another. Religion is such a huge deal still to this day and I'm sure that there are many families who are either highly religious or don't believe, this is the story for them. Inherit the Wind is a timeless tale that forever will be an important addition to today's society.10/10
I wasn't too interested in seeing Must Love Dogs, it didn't seem very unique or like the type of film that I like. It's rare that I get into a heavy chick flick, they're usually too sappy for me, but Must Love Dogs had a certain appeal to it. Yeah, it was a bit predictable, but it still had some moments that were really funny and a lot of things that we could all relate too in this complicated world of dating. Dianne and John had great chemistry and looked so great together and the story was very decent.Sarah is a divorced woman who's family is just pressuring her like crazy to go out and start dating again. They keep setting her up with men, but nothing works until her sister puts a profile up on a website of Sarah, after horrible date after horrible date, she finally meets Jake. Anothe divorced man who is absolutely caught by Sarah's vulnerability, but she's not ready for him yet until she realizes maybe that he is what she should be looking for in life.Must Love Dogs is great because it has comedy, romance, and just some very fun moments. I loved how she accidentally met her father through the dating ad's, that was a great scene seeing that awkwardness between them. I loved the beginning of where and how you can meet people. This is just a fun little movie to watch, I would recommend it if you're looking for a cute film to watch for the afternoon.6/10
I couldn't wait to see Charlotte's Web, it was my favorite book as a child, the first book I ever finished on my own, and I loved the cartoon. It was always the sweetest story about the two most unlikely of friends who were there for each other at times of need. I was a little scared with the live action version, but it actually worked very well, the story was done beautifully and was very faithful to the book. It's a story that I could never get sick of, it's just the perfect movie for any family. Back to the movie, I'm sure that you'll enjoy it, just because of how it was made, not only that, but the cast was great and put a lot of character into their voices, it was so lovely.Fern is a little girl who saves a runt pig from being killed by her father, she raises the pig who she names Wilber. She loves him so much, but a few months go by and her parents want her to move on, she doesn't want to get rid of Wilber, so she sells him to her uncle right across the street. She visits him as often as she can, but her parents worry, Wilber is left on his own to make new friends, and he finds himself befriending a spider. But when the other animals inform Wilber of his doom as future bacon, Charlotte, the spider, promises Wilber to get Fern's uncle to change his mind by writing words in her web describing how wonderful Wilber is and bringing success to his farm for publicity about the web.It's a classic tale that no one could ever dislike, I am surprised by the rating, I really thought that people would have loved this movie, it's a great one. I have to admit, I actually cried a little during this movie, it's very effective and just wonderfully done. I think you should watch this film, especially for a family night, it's such a touching movie. I'm sure you'll get a few laughs too, it's funny, charming, sweet, and just a good film.9/10
Zombieland, what most had expected to be just a rip off of the cult classic Shaun of the Dead ended up being one of the funniest films I have seen this year. I had a feeling from the trailer that this was going to be good, but Zombieland was a lot better than I had anticipated. This film delivers in everything: scares, gore, action, romance, and perfect comedic timing. Woody Harrelson is on top of his game this year with several movie hits under his belt the past couple of years, he comes back to his true form of comedy with Zombieland. Both he and Abigail Breslin stole the show and could honestly have carried the movie on their own. Zombieland also took it's typical concept with the clichés of zombies and took today's twist on it. After all, we've all see a zombie movie or 2 in our life time. We're always screaming something at the screen on what we think the character should do and that's what our main character is all about: The Rules of Zombieland.In a post-apocalyptic context, beginning with narration from Columbus, a college student, who is on his way to Columbus, Ohio to see if his parents are alright. He begins by explaining his "rules" for surviving the zombie apocalypse. After surviving a few zombie attacks, he encounters Tallahassee, whose life goal is to find the remaining Twinkies on Earth. As Columbus and Tallahassee search a grocery store for Twinkies, they meet two girls, Wichita and Little Rock. Through a con, the girls get their weapons and car, but the men find a Humvee loaded with weapons and head out to find the girls. Later, the girls use their own weapons to get the Hummer after their stolen car breaks down. After a small fight, Columbus convinces them that it's better to stick together. They decide to drive towards Pacific Playland, an amusement park that is supposedly zombie-free.Zombieland is going to be a hit and I'm sure another classic down the line. It was just a blast to watch. I think that Bill Murray scene is going to be remembered for years to come, but I can't give any spoilers away, you're just going to have to trust me and the others on the IMDb comment boards are talking about. All the actors in this movie worked so well together and were a total pleasure to watch on screen battle it out with these flesh eaters. Also you gotta love that Woody Harrelson's main goal of the movie is to get a twinkie, but I tell you when you have a craving, you have a craving. I told my boyfriend who knows how I get when I have a craving that I totally knew what Woody was talking about, lol. I would recommend Zombieland to others, this was a fun fast paced film with that delivered what the audience wanted and more.8/10
I couldn't wait to see knocked up, from the trailer, this looked like such a fun movie that anyone could laugh at. I didn't see it opening weekend, so when I peeked here on IMDb, I couldn't believe that it was already on the top 250, especially for a comedy in this year? I had to see this movie! My friend and I saw it yesterday and we had an absolute blast. But I have to admit, there were a few jokes that had me a little thrown off or were a little too much, but I have to say that thinking about it, it did over all work because it was realistic. I think we all know someone who is like a character in this film and that was what made it lovable.Ben Stone is a pot head who is very lazy and is about to put a website up with his friends on how long celebrities are naked in their films. Alison Scott is a determined and hard working woman who just got a hot promotion interviewing celebrities on E! When she goes out to celebrate with her married sister at the hottest club, she meets Ben, they have a little too much to drink and well, you know the saying "Don't drink and drive, it causes accidents"? Well, let's put it this was "Don't drink and park, it causes people". They have sex and Alison gets pregnant, she tells Ben, and they now are trying to get to know each other and pushing themselves to even love each other for the sake of this child.Knocked Up has great jokes that anyone I'm sure sometime in your life could relate too. Every character is sympathetic because you could relate in some way. The story worked very well, because sadly, I'm sure this situation happens more than we'd like to think it does. Katherine and Seth had great chemistry and worked so well together, I won't be surprised if their movie status is going to rise after this. Knocked up is a great comedy that I very much recommend, I think you'll have fun.8/10
My friends and I just saw the premiere of Spider-Man 3 and we had a great time watching it! The theater was packed and everyone was so hyped to see it, I mean, could you ask for a better movie experience? Spider-Man 3 has massive special effects that I have to admit were very impressive, the actors were fun, and the story was pretty good, but I have to honestly say that after all that hype, I wasn't incredibly impressed. Unfortunately, Spider-Man 3 left me and my friends with no closure to what could have been an excellent trilogy. But still this was indeed an exciting summer blockbuster that I'm sure you won't wanna miss.Spider Man has been given a day in dedication from New York, he is admired and loved by all, and quite frankly, it's getting to his head. Peter however is still the geek in real life, not too respected by anyone, but he still has Mary Jane who he wants to ask to marry him. Mary Jane is struggling in her career and is questioning her relationship with Peter and Spider Man. Harry is also back and during a huge fight between him and Spider Man he is knocked unconscious and has short term memory, but slowly realizes that he is still thirsty for revenge on his father's death. But that's the little of Peter's problem when a black goo turns him into an evil alternate of Spider Man and when Peter finds out that the man who actually killed his uncle is at large, he lets the evil out and is only out for cold revenge.Spider Man 3 is a great blockbuster that is the big start to our summer of trilogies, I would highly recommend this movie for anyone, it was a lot of fun to watch. But I wouldn't expect the greatest movie, I still love the first one the best, but I'm sure you will get 2 hours of pure entertainment, the special effects were awesome and I hope there is eventually another Spider Man in the near future. Great jokes, corny lines, fantastic fights, and exciting plots, super hero movies, aren't they great?7/10
Pretty recently I had heard quite a bit about Harold and Maude, from my 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die book and from my sister. When her and I were teasing each other on movies we did not see, she brought this up and told me how I had to see it. So, I finally came across it at Hollywood Video and figured what the heck? My sister is into very strange films, but this was also on COMEDY'S 100 funniest movies of all time, so I needed a good laugh. The movie started off a little strange, but then everything came more together and when Maude came in, this movie just took off. I couldn't believe how much Maude rocked, she is everything I want to be at 21 years old.Harold is a young man who has no direction in life, his one pleasure is going to a funeral, even if he did not know the person, but there he meets 79 year old Maude, she shares the same passion as he does. On top of that, she steals cars, trees, and has the strongest passion for life while Harold is finding ways to fake a suicide to freak his mom out. But together they find a little romance and bring out the best in each other, even if no one else can see that.Harold and Maude is possibly one of the most unique and original stories I have watched, it was so strange and off putting, yet it worked and became a masterpiece that any film lover would enjoy. It truly deserves it's praise and more, it had wonderful acting, great chemistry, and a very original story. The 70's were a quirky time, but also a great time for movies! 10/10
Well I do know that Max Payne is a video game, I've never played it, sorry to say, I've never even heard of it until the movie. But from what I hear, it's a very violent video game, so I was expecting an all out action packed movie. Now I had heard very bad things about the movie, but I was still curious to see what it was about, plus I love both Mark Wahlberg and Mila Kunis. While I started to watch it, the beginning was actually decent, I was thinking "why all the bad reviews? this isn't so bad" but then as it moved on, I can see why. First off, now I'm not trying to sound like this blood thirsty fan, but there are people getting shot left and right... but there is absolutely no blood, like they get shot and there's no blood? Not to mention, Mila Kunis's character just disappears at the end... maybe she felt it was so bad she just walked off, lol. The story stopped making sense, Mark Wahlberg kept the same face the whole time as well as the story stopped making sense.Max Payne has had a hard life, he had a beautiful child and wife who were just taken away from him, they were both brutally murdered and his life feels empty now. He is trying to find out who or what killed them, so he investigates to find out that anyone who has a certain tattoo is affiliated with a cult is mysteriously being killed off. He meets a woman who he wants information from, she has the same tattoo, but she is killed, now her sister, Mona Sax is looking to see what killed her, so she investigates with Max who finds out that he can't trust just anyone.Max Payne is just an alright film, pretty much it's forgettable. It could have had so much potential to be a great action film. I did enjoy the atmosphere though, I felt that it was a great feel to the film, it had a very film noir feel. Just the story fell short and the script was a little silly with some of the over the top trying to be like Terminator lines. Mark seemed like a great choice for an action hero, but he looks constipated throughout the film, lol. I think Jason Statham would have been a better choice maybe, but it's the script that needs work. Sorry to the video game fans, I know this was the ultimate let down for them, hopefully if they do a sequel they'll get it right next time.4/10
I remember watching on the biography channel and Arnold Schwarzenegger was on, so I decided to watch it. It's weird, I've seen so many of his movies, but I never saw Last Action Hero. They said that this movie was a huge flop and got nothing but bad reviews, so maybe that's why my parents never showed me this movie. But I decided to go ahead and watch it on my own and you know something? I loved it! Sure, it doesn't come without flaws, but I really enjoyed this movie and don't understand it's bad reputation. I think it's a spoof on action movies and how silly they are when you compare to what real life is. When you watch an action movie like Commando, Die Hard or First Blood, they take you out of our world and into an exciting one where the good guys always win and all is well with the world. Last Action Hero takes a clever idea where we have every action cliché and it's pointed out and makes for a very funny story and some comedic situations that are a good homage to our favorite action movies.Danny Madigan is magically transported into the surreal world of an action film featuring his fictional idol, Jack Slater; Slater is the hero of the Jack Slater film series, a fearless LAPD detective. Nick, a movie theater projector, invites Danny to a private screening of Jack Slater IV and gives him a magic ticket. Before the movie, Nick tears the ticket in half, gives one half to Danny, and puts the other in the ticket box. A few minutes into Slater IV, Danny's ticket stub begins to glow, and some dynamite from within the movie flies out of the screen, lands near Danny, and explodes. When Danny wakes up, he is in the back seat of Slater's car. He tries to convince Slater that they are in a movie, but Slater sees nothing unusual about his world. Jack doesn't believe him, but when one of the villains figures out with Danny knows so much about the world, he goes into Danny's world to destroy Slater in a different way where the bad guys always win.Now my only complaint being is that this movie is too long, we start off with Danny going into the action movie and him pointing out every cliché which was just great, he and Arnold had awesome chemistry, but then when they go into the villain going into Danny's world, we have another half of the story that could have been shorter. Jack Slater finding out his fictional, we didn't need so much sulking for an action movie. Also at the end where we're in our reality, it does turn into a bit of an action movie that goes back into clichés. But despite it's flaws, I still had a great time with this movie, it has some good laughs. I loved the part where the villain is in New York City and it's our reality, he shoots someone and screams in a public street that he killed a man and someone shouts out for him to shut up was just classic. Arnold also fighting Arnold(as Jack Slater) in reality was so funny as well. I loved this movie, I took it for what it was and really had a good time watching it. Give the movie a fair chance, if you're an action movie fan like I am, I'm sure you love Last Action Hero too.8/10
After seeing the trailer for Role Models, I thought it looked like a funny movie, but I wasn't expecting much, I was thinking they might have just shown the great parts in the trailer and that would be it. But I took the opportunity and saw Role Models the other day and I have to say this is completely opposite from what I was expecting, first off I was worried that there was going to be a lot of gross humor and the kids might be more annoying than funny, but it turn out that this was one of the funniest movies I have seen this year. I just couldn't stop laughing throughout this film, who knew that Sean William Scott could actually be really funny? I know there are a lot of Stiffler fans that will hate that sentence, but I don't remember a time that I laughed so hard at his character. He and Paul Rudd both worked so well together and were terrific on screen, this was the last duo on Earth that I expected such great laughs from.Wheeler and Danny both work for an energy drink company, but after a very hard day for Danny he crashes their company truck on school property, but his ex-girlfriend, Beth, who is a lawyer is able to get them just 150 hours community service with two kids, one is a total dungeons and dragons nerd and the other is just a pain in the butt. You know how the story goes, Danny learns how to be happy and Wheeler finally grows up into a more father figure role.Now the story is something we have seen a million times before, but it's still a great comedy. Jane Lynch who is becoming one of my favorite comedic actresses, you've also seen her in 40 year old virgin, she is just absolutely hilarious in this movie and has all the best lines "You know what I ate for breakfast? Cocaine. You know what I ate for lunch? Cocaine..." she is such a great and fun actress to watch on screen. I really loved Role Models, it turned out to be a great comedy and was an absolute blast to watch. I highly recommend if you get the chance to see it, take it, it's a guaranteed laugh.8/10
Wow, poor Harry just can't get a break and a decent year at Hogwarts? Well, I just completed the series that is on DVD at least, hoping to see the new Harry Potter and the Order of Phoenix this weekend with my friends, looking forward to it. I'm glad I finally broke down and watched these movies, I knew I had to give in some time since these films are just going to keep coming, you know? Well, The Goblet of Fire is so far the darkest Harry Potter I've seen, but also the best. I loved the whole concept of how Harry can face evil magic, wizards, and dragons, but his scariest time yet: the truth about the birds and the bees. So far I have to say that Goblet of Fire is my favorite Harry Potter film.Harry is now in his fourth year in Hogwarts and there is a huge contest that is going on for a grand prize, only thing is from each wizard school, only one is chosen to win the prize and you must be 17 or older to enter, but for some odd reason Harry is chosen to participate even though he is only 14. Facing extremely difficult obstacles, he pulls through and makes it in time for the big ball dance that Hogwarts is throwing and he and Ron must find a way to get a date. But there is more trouble when Lord Voldemort is finally about to rise and I don't think Harry is on his good side.The Goblet of Fire was a brilliant movie and is probably my new favorite of the Harry Potter films. It had amazing effects and great acting as usual. It was different as well since the kids are now a little more grown up, so they are facing scary adventures, but it's very exciting to watch. I cannot wait for the Order of Phoenix and see where Harry Potter will take us next. Then I guess it's off to the books since I should probably see what everyone is talking about when they say how the books don't compare to the films.8/10
During these economical struggles we are having in our hard time, what would you do for a million dollars? It's not a lot of money, but heck, it would help a lot of our problems in life. But if someone offered you a million dollars, tax free, you'd take it wouldn't you? But what would happen if the only way you could get a million dollars was if someone in the world that you didn't know would die? Could be a bad person, could be a good person, could be a baby, could be an elderly person could be anyone. That's what The Box presents to us, the possibility for more financial stability in exchange for your conscience, handling that you killed someone for a million dollars. My friend and I rented The Box for our girl's night and the only thing we could come up with this movie was honestly, "who the heck picked out that ugly wall paper?", lol. The Box is presented almost like an extended episode of The Twilight Zone. One of the great under used actors of our time Frank Langella plays a "villain", very well, but he has a weird disfigurement that is a bit too much to handle for the audience. Cameron Diaz and James Marsden, their chemistry is so off that again, the story, while extremely interesting, wasn't handled in the best way.In 1976, Norma and Arthur Lewis, a financially strapped couple, wake to find a package on the doorstep. Inside is a locked wooden box with a button and a note that reads: "Mr. Steward will call upon you at 5:00 pm". Promptly at five, Steward visits. He tells Norma that if the box's button is pushed, he will give her one million dollars, but someone they do not know will die. After much deliberation, Norma suddenly pushes the button. Steward returns with the money. He informs the couple that they will not know whoever receives the offer next, implying that one of them, or their son, may be killed. Norma and Arthur both visit a strange library, separately. There, Arthur approaches a woman he learns is Steward's wife, she presents Arthur with three gateways made of hovering water. Two lead to eternal damnation, one to salvation. Arthur enters one of the gateways. Norma is led by two women to Steward, who informs Norma that he was struck by lightning and can now communicate with "those who control the lightning". Later on, Arthur learns that he may have to choose between his son and wife as to who will live and who will die.The story is a great idea, but it goes off a little towards the end into this strange sci-fi genre that doesn't work so well. I personally would have loved it to be more realistic as this couple maybe has to deal with the consequences that they killed someone, I could only imagine driving myself mad that I killed someone just to save my financial problems and to me that's more interesting than "let's go into strange world with blocks of water". Some of the characters in the movie do not know the meaning of "tactful" or "subtle" when everyone in this movie just stares at the couple with an evil grin. This would have been a better idea if used after they pushed the button as a sign of their guilt. Frank Langella for me was the only redeeming quality in the movie, but again, why the major disfigurement? It was too big and over powering that it was just uncomfortable. I think the story just needs some minor improvements and the director needed a different vision. I wouldn't really go out of my way to recommend this film.4/10
Fans around the world had a very sad day this year when the news of Michael Jackson's death was announced. Michael had inspired so many, wither it was dancing, singing, wardrobe, or just being a generous human. The thing that made Michael so special that many people don't realize why he was so special to so many, how many years Michael had been performing. Since he was a child, my grandparents, my parents and my sister and I were fans. 3 generations as I'm sure many families feel the same.This Is It was supposed to be Michael's major comeback tour after years of hiding after all the child molestation trial drama. 50 sold out concerts in London, I was so excited and hoping he was going to possibly come back to the states for another world tour and was even looking up how much the tickets were. Unfortunately, Michael passed away just a few days away from performing.This Is It documents the rehearsal footage of his future concerts. Ranging from a wide variety of his mega hits from his newest song This Is It going back to his roots singing "I Want You Back", "I'll Be There" and "State of Shock". Of course also performing all of the fan favorites from his Thriller, Bad, and Dangerous Albums as well. Watching this movie got me teary eyed as well as others in the theater when he performed both "Human Nature" and "I'll Be There", he still had his wonderful voice giving his all. Michael was an absolute perfectionist and his shows in this documentary as other describe how he knows his tune and his years of experience has helped them grow.Also having little commentaries with the musicians and dancers, everyone so excited to work with Michael. You could tell this was the cherry on top of the sundae for them working with one of the world's greatest entertainers. The girl who was rocking out on the lead guitar was beyond awesome, my sister and I had our jaws dropped on how she just tickled those strings making those incredible sounds come out. The dancers were also just wonderful and had such energy and pr essence and would've done a terrific job.All I can say is that This Is It would have been the ultimate concert. Michael really went all out for this concert with mini movies introducing his songs. He had a little Chicago gangsters clip with Humphrey Bogart and other gangsters chasing after Michael. Thriller was also such a show with the dancers rising from their graves and their costumes were awesome! Michael also did a very touching performance of Earth Song that would make anyone want to look at our Earth and want to make a difference.To sum this up, this was a gift to Michael Jackson fans and was incredible to watch. Even if you're not a MJ fan like my boyfriend is, you'll still enjoy it, he was impressed on how dedicated everyone was and loved the music. This Is It should not be missed!10/10
I tell you, I was so disappointed to not see Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End it's opening weekend, but in some ways, it was kind of a blessing, at least I would get some reviews from friends who saw it, like my movie buddy. Now so far this May, the sequels have been disappointing, excluding 28 Weeks Later, they're just not as good as the originals or their sequels. When I asked my friend how Pirates 3 was, she said it was a major disappointment, oh, man, that got me nervous, since her and I have virtually the same taste in movies. But my mom and I wanted to see this film still, just see what it was about, and I have to say that I actually enjoyed this film more that what I was lead to believe it was.OK, I'm not sure how to explain the plot, since there is so much to say, but I'm going to give it a shot. Will and Elizabeth's relationship is on the rocks since Elizabeth has not told anyone that she was the cause of Jack's death. Jack is needed to help Will get his father back, so he and the crew bring back Jack from Davy Jone's locker. The English Command has hung everyone in the town who has done anything to do with pirates, and are out to kill every last one of the pirates. Captain Barbossa is back and he is in a fight with Jack on who is captain of the ship. Traitors reveal themselves into the biggest pirate battle you'll ever see! I hope that helps somewhat, there are a lot of stories to follow in this film. But it has great acting, superb effects, and terrific stories. There are a few ridicules moments that are unbelievable, but I think that if you just relax and give the movie a break, you may find yourself having a lot of fun in this great sequel. It was a great ending to the story, the only story I didn't like how they ended it was the story between Will and Elizabeth, but I'm not going to spoil it for you. But please just give this movie a break, it's really great when you give it a chance.9/10
I have heard quite a bit about Kingpin, about how funny it is and how great the actors were together, this film was on the top 100 funniest films of all time and not to mention that I heard a lot about it from my friends. I thought that it was a pretty decent comedy that I had fun with, especially the finally bowling scene with Bill Murray, he was the one who truly stole this film. But the entire cast was so great and special, I think anyone could laugh a few times from this film.Roy has been brutally disfigured in a bowling game when his partner, Ernie, leaves him to a horrible disfiguration of getting his bowling hand cut off. Years and years later, he finds Ishmael Boorg, an Amish farmer who bowls extremely well, but he doesn't want his family to know that he can bowl, but after begging and begging, Ishmael decides to be with Roy in a huge tournament for a huge cash prize. Through the trip they make, they become the most unlikely of friends picking up a hot woman, Claudia.Kingpin is one of those films you don't forget and I will guarantee the minimum of one laugh, especially when you see these grown men have comb overs and are acting like little boys in the the competition together. I would recommend it for a fun afternoon with the friends, it's good film and it looked like the cast really had a lot of fun together.7/10
I actually wasn't up to seeing Freedom Writers, it looked like a total rip off of Dangerous Minds, but after so many promising reviews, my friend and I checked it out tonite and I have to say while it is still in my opinion a copy off of Dangerous Minds, it's all good. It had a new little twist on it for a new generation who didn't have the opportunity to see Dangerous Minds. The stories were truly inspiring and very heart breaking at the same time. I never really thought how much of our history is still true to this day, you know? But it goes to show how history will always repeat itself despite how people will always claim that what is currently happening to them is a first time.Mrs. G is a new teacher to a reform school where she will teach freshman and sophomore English. She finds the task harder when she doesn't realize what she has truly gotten herself into with the gang violence and the drug wars constantly going on. The fear that the students have not knowing if they are really going to make it to the age of 18 and trying to have courage to survive each day. At first they give Mrs. G a hard time, that is until she finds a way through history like the holocaust, to show them that the struggles they face is always eternal. Asking them to write down their feelings, stories, and thoughts into a journal, they soon become the "Freedom Writers".Freedom Writers was a truly good movie that I was pleasantly surprised with, it had great acting and a very inspiring story. My favorite moment was when they had the woman who sheltered the Franks during the Holocaust come in and speak to the kids and told them how they could make a difference just by following their hearts and doing what they thought was right. I would recommend Freedom Writers, especially if you loved Dangerous Minds ;).7/10
A few years ago I watched Police Academy, which became one of my favorite comedies, but I never could find any of the sequels. Even though I have been warned that these sequels are not any good, I'm still curious, I just finished Police Academy 3: Back in Training last night and even though it's not as funny as the first Police Academy film, it still has a few decent laughs. I think the ratings here on IMDb are so low because a lot of people are not giving these movies a good chance. If you wanna see these sequels, just have an open mind to it, because some of these sequels are still pretty funny. I liked having the gang back together, even good old obnoxious Zed, and they've added a few new characters to the story that are so much fun to watch.Due to money shortage, the governor has to cut one of the two police academies in the city. The way to choose which academy is going to last is a competition, to see which pulls out the best trained policemen. So the class of 1984 is back to help their academy out and help train new recruits, including our villain from the second Police Academy, Zed, has decided to clean up his act while picking on a poor little nerd, Sweetchuck, but end up being quite the funny pair together. But the other academy is going to do whatever they can to sabotage and win the competition away from Lasard's Police Academy.No, this isn't by any means a pure comedy that has you constantly laughing, but it still delivers a few good moments. I know he is getting little obnoxious, but Michael Winslow with the voices, I loved when he was training a student and making noises like she was a bad driver, then he stopped and said "ok, if I hear any of those noises, you fail". Back in Training is worth the look if you're interested in seeing the sequels, I would recommend it, Back in Training has it's laughs, just have an open mind and have fun.5/10
Every year there is a Christmas movie released, and it's always the typical family friendly flick that gets pretty annoying and predictable, in fact there really hasn't been any good Christmas movies past Home Alone and Christmas Vacation. When I saw the trailer to Deck the Halls, I was so excited, because I'm a fan of Danny and Matthew, they're both great comedic actors and this seemed like a great film for Christmas and how obsessive people are over the holidays.Steve is a family man who is intending to make the holidays brighter for his depressed kids and over shadowed wife, he is also love by the community. A new family moves in across the street, Buddy and his family are genuinely nice people but rub Steve off the wrong way, especially since Buddy is upset that his house cannot be seen from outer space and figures that Christmas lights will fix that problem. While all the other family members of both guys are getting along great, the guys end up competing with each other to see who will be the Christmas King of the town.Matthew and Danny who you'd think would be the perfect comedic duo actually didn't spark anything that grabbed me and the jokes were pretty predictable. While this movie was over all a slight disappointment, actually, I'd say there are a few good little laughs her and there, it is a cute Christmas movie, but like I said, just stick with the classic Christmas comedies.5/10
Admittingly, I have to say I did not want to see Star Trek, even though the trailer looked interesting, I thought this film was only going to be for the fans of the TV series and no one else would get it. I did watch the show with my father when I was a child, but it never caught on with me to keep watching it. But after hearing some really great reviews, I decided to go ahead and check the movie out and honestly I'm glad I did. I really enjoyed this movie and the reason why? It was like a prequel, not just meant for the fans, but how these famous characters came to be. This is everything a summer blockbuster is meant to be, fun characters, great adventure, fun effects and a good interesting story. Not only that, but this movie was so much fun to watch and it may make me even get back into the show.Captain Nero of the Romulan mining ship Narada attempts to exact revenge on Spock, whom he blames for the destruction of his home world and its inhabitants, including his wife and unborn child. Both ships, however, are caught in the black hole's event horizon and travel into the past. Acting-Captain George Kirk orders an evacuation and stays behind to provide cover for the fleeing shuttle craft, his pregnant wife among the passengers. George pilots the Kelvin into the Narada moments after his son James Tiberius Kirk is born. Kirk grows up to be an intelligent, though reckless and cynical, young man. To get him to embrace his potential, Captain Christopher Pike challenges Kirk to emulate his father's heroism and convinces him to join Starfleet. In his third year at the Academy, Kirk is accused of cheating on the test by its programmer, Commander Spock. At the resultant hearing, Starfleet receives a distress signal from Vulcan that indicates the appearance of a lightning storm in space, and the cadets are mobilized to help crew the ships in orbit. McCoy smuggles the grounded Kirk aboard the USS Enterprise as a patient under his care. Kirk recognizes the similarities between the Vulcan incident and the encounter that destroyed the Kelvin, and warns Pike that the fleet is heading into a trap. arrives and beams Kirk, Pike, and Spock away before the collision, which ignites the remaining red matter and creates a black hole within the Narada's superstructure. Kirk offers to help rescue Nero and his crew, but the Romulan refuses and the Narada is destroyed. The Enterprise escapes the same fate by ejecting and igniting the ship's warp drive reactor cores, the resulting explosion pushing them clear. Kirk is promoted to captain of the Enterprise, relieving the newly-promoted Admiral Pike.Surprisingly, Star Trek is a very good film, besides the effects and story, what really made the film work was it's actors. Chris Pine did a good job as Captain Kirk, even though the rebellious stage was a little over done, he still pulled it off with the right sense of cockiness and powerful leadership. But the man who takes over the film for me was definitely Zachary Quinto who played Spock, not only did he look like him(I'm surprised he and Leonard Limoy are not related) but what a performance, this kid is going to make it big. Simon Pegg was also the perfect selection for the role of Scotty, I don't think they could have had a better actor. Star Trek was a great film, I'm glad I got to see it, I definitely recommend it on the big screen, but if you're waiting for the rental, it's all good, it's a great movie.8/10
I just rented the double feature of Poltergeist 2 and Poltergeist 3, so I get two for the price of one, how sweet is that? :D OK, I'm a dork, I know. But over all, getting to the movie, I'd say that I enjoyed the second installment of the Poltergeist series. It of course wasn't as good as the first, but it had some fine horror movie moments and I loved some of the references to the first one.The family has moved away from the old house, hoping the problems won't follow them, but they do! Carol Anne starts seeing some spooky ghosts and an Indian offers the family help, warning them about the terror to come. Of course, they think that they out of harm's way. Unfortunately, the demons are coming to get them, but their main focus is to get Carol Anne. They posse her father and cause haunting visions in their home.Poltergeist 2 has some fine moments, like I loved the father being possessed. He was so scary and convincing of how evil he was being. Then that little annoying voice actress came back, that was a nice touch. I think that if you liked the first Poltergeist, you'll definitely enjoy the second Poltergeist.6/10
Stephen King, the man has an incredible fan base and some really good books. The man knows how to create true fear and suspense. He's written so much and naturally many have made his books into films, one of the most famous being Pet Sematary. Taking a typical "Be Careful What You Wish For" story and bringing it to life on the big screen. The story was pretty basic, having the opportunity to play God and bring those you love back from the dead has been done before. But Pet Sematary knew how to take something so basic and really give you the genuine chills of a family who was very normal and who's whole life got turned upside down by a high speed road and a pet sematary that was just plain bad news.The Creed family moves into a new home, close to a road where high-speed truckers often carelessly drive by. They befriend their neighbor, Jud Crandall, who tells them about a pet cemetery nearby. Later the dad Louis is working at the University of Maine at Orono hospital, treats a car accident victim, who dies on the operating table, but not before suddenly grabbing Louis and whispering a mysterious and cryptic message to him just before dying. Church, a cat owned by Louis's daughter Ellie, is run over by a truck on the road in front of their house while Rachel, Ellie, and Gage are in Chicago. Jud takes Louis to a burial ground beyond the pet cemetery they visited earlier. He buries the cat underneath a cairn. Church is brought back to life, but is an evil shell of himself; he attacks Louis and reeks of decomposition. Jud tells Louis about the grounds. Louis asks if a person was ever buried in the grounds. Sometime later, Louis's young son, Gage, is tragically run over by a truck on the same road during a picnic and is killed. Louis considers burying Gage in the burial grounds. Jud tries to dissuade him from doing so, telling him that Gage won't come back normal, but Louis wants Gage back so badly that he does it anyways. But be careful what you wish for, because Gage isn't acting like the Gerber baby any more.The make up effects were really good, the corpses of the people and the cat were just disturbing and can easily give you nightmares. Miko Hughes who played Gage at age 3 did an amazing job, for a kid who can't even tie his shoes, he sure can play an evil little boy. Dale Midkiff who plays the dad did a decent job, though over the top at times, he really captures how he looses it so easily and decides that any problem can be answered with this cemetery despite the fact he knows the consequences already. Fred Gwyne who is usually used to giving the scares in the hit TV show The Munsters is now the one warning the family to be careful of the cemetery and he does a great job. One of the things I found that didn't work in the film though was the ghost of the student that Louis failed to save in the school. He comes back to haunt the family to warn them of Louis' intentions with the cemetery, it felt a little too made for TV and didn't quite match the tone of the film. Also the pace can be a bit slow at times cutting the tension. Over all though, the film does work and gives you the chills and making you question what would you do if given the chance to bring someone back. Well maybe you should watch this film before thinking too much about that.7/10
Since I finally remembered to rent The Bad News Bears at Hollywood Video, I decided to rent the remake instead of the sequels first, to see what the remake was all about and I thought that actually Billy Bob Thorton was a great choice for Buttermaker, so I was kinda looking forward to it. Of course, I watched the original first, so after almost dying of laughter from The Bad News Bears, this film had a lot to live up too. Unforutnatley, I don't think this film worked as well because of the dates, the 70's, films still seemed like they could push it to the edge, while into today's world, we have to be more PC. Not to mention the kids were more annoying and punky than the lovable punky kids in the original.Buttermaker is a has been baseball player and now an alcoholic, he is given the job of a little league coach for the Bears since no other fathers are taking the job. But he's definitely taken back when he finds out that the team he is coaching are kids who are, well, I guess you could say "lacking" in the department of knowing how to play baseball. But he just wants to get paid and get the job over with, but when their first game comes along, the kids get creamed 26-0, Buttermaker is pressured to drop the team out of the league, but instead teaches the kids how to play and recruits a couple of new kids, a girl who's mother he used to date, and a rebel without a cause. The kids get better in each game, but it's a matter of Buttermaker getting his priorities straight when he lets the game get the worst of him... and he's an alcoholic! Billy Bob did do a good job as the new Buttermaker, but he seemed to be the softer version than Walter, so I'd have to vote for Walter if I want the real Buttermaker. Tanner, I was incredibly disappointed with, because he just turned into an annoying brat than a fun little punk, not to mention I was ticked off that they changed the line "shove the trophies up your..." to the other kid, that was Tanner's line and rightfully so! While Bad News Bears had a couple laughs, it just wasn't needed, stick with the original.6/10
I admit it, I'm such a lover of the over cheesy rubbing the message in your face movies, The Great Debaters was of course going to be no exception. It also won the golden globe for best drama of 2007 and I couldn't wait to see how Denzel does in the director's chair. I rented The Great Debaters and watched it the other day and the main thing about this movie that makes it great is the acting. I mean the story is fantastic, but it couldn't have been told any better because of the three young actors in this movie: Nate Parker, Jurnee Smollett, and Denzel Whitaker. We also have stellar performances from Denzel and Forrest as well of course, but it's just these three young actors that I have never seen before or heard of that just blew me away. They presented themselves with class, intelligence, and courage to carry on in the tough world they lived in.Henry, Samantha, and James are three young black students who have joined a debate team led by Melvin Tolson. They all live in Texas and have to deal with the harsh world of racism, where black people are lynched without knowledge of what they did that was so wrong. But the team pulls in strong together to win several debates despite their color and the ignorance that surrounds them, eventually leading them into competing against Harvard University.The Great Debaters is just a terrific movie, it's very inspirational and makes you think. Denzel as a director, he could be a little more visionary in my opinion, but he makes a great actor's director because he just delivers all the actor's best. Denzel Whitaker's last debate against Harvard brought me to tears, the honesty that just comes from his words makes you want to stand up and clap after his speech. I would very much recommend The Great Debaters, it is worth the watch and I'm sure will have you cheering at the end.8/10
After seeing the first trailer for Vantage Point, I have to say that it really did not catch my attention, it looked like one of those typical thrillers that tries to confuse people so much into thinking that "well, I don't get it, it's so intelligent, I have to like it" type of movies. But I decided to just go ahead and give it a chance this afternoon and I have to say that it is definitely better than I expected, in fact, over all I think I did enjoy it. But there are still some major flaws to this film, like the acting. We have some fantastic actors, some who have won Oscars, been nominated for Oscars, or are known for doing some great movies. So, Dennis Quaid, very over the top and in some ways unbelievable, like a stunt that was pulled that I'll explain later. Most of the actors looked like they had just read the script the day before and just looked lost. The plot was typical and needed a little more.The president of the United States is due to make a very important speech in Spain, the speech to end all international terrorism. But all that has changed when he is shot and killed in front of everyone. But not everything is all it seems. From several points of view: the president, the body guard, an American visitor with a camera, the terrorist, and a black mailed man, we learn the juicy details in this mixed up and crazy thriller.Now basically, this film does have quite a bit of technology, which in some ways frightened me, the past year we've seen films where technology has taken over, especially video camera's, can be helpful, can be a little much. It's just weird to know this is the type of society we live in where everything is filmed and there is no such thing as privacy or mystery. Back on what also I was going to say about the stunts, Dennis Quaid gets into a HORRIBLE car accident, goes walking away without a single scratch, just a small limp. There were a few plot holes not to mention, it was hard to keep up with who was a bad guy who was a good guy and they never got back to certain characters. Over all, this isn't the worst film, but it's not the best film of the year, so it's up to you to see it, it's a strange one to recommend.5/10
I was never interested in seeing Deuce Bigalow: Male Gigolo, but one of my friends said that it was a very funny movie, so I figured I would give it a shot and I rented it. I watched it yesterday and over all I thought it was alright. To be honest I never really was a big fan of Rob Schneider anyways, but he was actually pretty likable in Deuce Bigalow. Though it didn't really make me laugh, Duece Bigalow is a likable romantic comedy that is a spoof off of American Gigolo. At times the humor is a bit immature and typical, but there are a couple of laughs here and there.Duece Bigalow is a man who takes very good care of fishes. One day he comes across a man, Antoine, who just seems to get all the babes and has a fabulous house. He finds out the way he gets this living is from taking money from pleasuring these women, he's a man whore. When he has to go away for 3 weeks, he asks Duece to look over the house, Duece destroys the house and needs 6 thousand dollars fast, and of course how he is he gonna get it? That's right, he shall become the ultimate man whore and ends up finding the love of his life.Over all Duece Bigalow: Male Gigolo is a likable movie, I'm not sure if I would watch it again, but it is worth a look. The acting is just what you would expect, it's average, but the story is pretty funny. The things that made me laugh mostly were when Duece is getting all the "messed up" female john's and just his reaction was pretty funny. So I would say that you could give this movie a look if you're in the mood, but for me, it's a one time watch.5/10
I saw Fright Night a few months ago and absolutely enjoyed it, it reminded me of Rear Window, only vampires, it just made the story a lot of fun and a cool new twist on vampires. Of course I waited too long to see the movie, I came across the sequel so many times over and over again while looking for movies to rent, and right when I finally get to the sequel, they took it off DVD. Thank goodness though I was able to find this movie on youtube and watched it tonite, I'm actually in some ways glad that I didn't have to pay to see it. Sadly, I was disappointed, while it's by no means the worst sequel I have ever seen, just compared to the other movie, this was just too typical with the horror and gore, Fright Night was a brilliant and original film that was not only scary but a lot of fun to watch. Fright Night 2 isn't so original and the story lacks something.It has been three years since Charley and Peter Vincent faced his vampire neighbor, but Charley has gone to therapy and is convinced there are no such thing as vampires. He has got a new girlfriend and life in college; Peter is still working on TV with his Fright Night show. But a new vampire gang is in town working their way around, they charm and kill the people, while we find out that one of the vampires is related to Charley and she wishes for him to be an immortal and to join her and her vampire gang.Fright Night 2 is over all an alright film, if it was just on it's own, I honestly wouldn't have judged it that bad, but like I said, when the first one was so clever and original, I was expecting the same with the sequel. But it was really cool to have Peter and Charley working together again, they make such a great team, but they don't have the same charm and chemistry like they did in the first movie. Over all it's worth the one watch alone, if you saw the first film and are just curious, by all means, watch it, but the one time was more than enough for me.5/10
There is no Tom in team and Tom Cruise finally learned that as demonstrated in the best Mission Impossible yet! Tom is getting a little bit older so it was a good question if he still had it in him to be a great action star since his career is still a little shaky over the past few years, he's proved once again that he's almost ageless. Despite the fact that it's the unrealistic action, in my opinion that's the best kind! I love my Tom Cruise running without losing an ounce of breath, I love throwing every element of surprise at the team and they manage to get around it, I love the explosions not effecting anyone, the car chases, the dust storms, it's just amazing! Mission Impossible 4 is a roller coaster ride of excitement and doesn't let you go.Jane Carter, and newly promoted field agent Benji Dunn extract Ethan Hunt and Hunt's source Bogdan from a Moscow prison. Hunt is recruited to lead Carter and Dunn to infiltrate the secret Moscow Kremlin archives and locate files identifying Cobalt. During the mission, someone broadcasts across the IMF frequency, alerting the Russians to Hunt's team. Although Dunn and Carter escape, a bomb destroys the Kremlin, and Russian agent Sidorov arrests Hunt, suspecting him as part of the attack. But as it turns out it's a terrorist who is looking to create a nuclear war and to start man kind over again in order to create world peace.I loved all the action scenes in here. The best by far is when Tom Cruise has to climb the side of this sky scrapper building with these gloves that are magnetic, you know that one of the gloves is bound to slip and it does and he manages to grab the glass at last minute with one hand. He also then has to land back onto the floor but is a little short on slack so has to get a head start, he runs and barely survives! You know they have to put a predictable outing of the plot where he will survive in there, but it's still exciting to watch. I also loved the dust storm chase scene, that was really intense and exciting to watch. Simon Pegg made for some great comic relief. Jeremy Renner made for a great action side kick that held his own next to Ethan. Paula Patton was a great tough sexy chick the group needed and added a great cat fight to the movie. My only complaint is that the villain didn't seem as developed, so I didn't feel as big a threat with him as I should have. However, Tom Cruise never disappoints with the tension and suspense of the situation. I think it's safe to say that I've fallen back in love with Tom Cruise and the rest of America can too, he may be crazy as a nut, but he never fails to entertain when giving us a great action movie. Very much the best of 2011 and I cannot wait to add it to my video collection. If this is what we have in store for the next Mission Impossible movie, I'll be the first in line.8/10
Seven Pounds, this was the movie where I was just convinced Will Smith is really going for the "I'm going to make you cry" films. One thing I can give him a ton of credit for, the man can cry. My only thing is, as moving as the story is, Will Smith has proved time and time again that he can act, so why is he taking this extremely depressing story? But nevertheless it's still a good movie. I do have to admit it made me cry, but I felt that the stand out performance was Rosario Dawson, I absolutely love this girl, ever since I saw her in 25th Hour with Ed Norton, I knew this girl was going to go far. She's beautiful, charming, funny and talented, can't wait to see how much further her career is going to go. But her and Will Smith, not so sure if they had the great chemistry that the film needed that would've made this into a great film.Two years ago Tim Thomas was in a car crash, which was caused by him using his mobile phone; seven people died: six strangers and his fiancée. A year after the crash, and having quit his job as an aeronautical engineer, Tim donates a lung lobe to his brother, Ben, an IRS employee. Six months later he donates part of his liver to a child services worker named Holly. After that he begins searching for more candidates to receive donations. He finds George, a junior hockey coach, and donates a kidney to him, and then donates bone marrow to a young boy named Nicholas. Two weeks before he dies he contacts Holly and asks if she knows anyone who deserves help. She suggests Connie Tepos, who lives with an abusive boyfriend. Tim moves out of his house and into a local motel taking with him his pet box jellyfish. One night, after being beaten, Connie contacts Tim and he gives her the keys and deed to his beach house. She takes her two children and moves in to their new home. Having stolen his brother's credentials, and making himself known by his brother's name Ben, he checks out candidates for his two final donations. The first is Ezra Turner, a blind vegetarian meat salesman who plays the piano. Tim calls Ezra Turner and harasses him at work to check if he is quick to anger. Ezra remains calm and Tim decides he is worthy. He then contacts Emily Posa, a self-employed greeting card printer who has a heart condition and a rare blood type. He spends time with her, weeding her garden and fixing her rare Heidelberg printer. He begins to fall in love with her and decides that as her condition has worsened he needs to make his donation.Seven Pounds is a good film and no doubt worth a look, I would just recommend going for the rental vs. the theater. Will Smith pulls in a good performance, but not his best, just most of the film required him crying in every scene, but the last one with him is a doozy. But I loved the ending, it was beautiful and really made you appreciate life and to not take it for granted. There is still good people in this world and Ben's character reminds you to value life and to give to those who are in desperate need. Although he went a little far, but it was still a beautiful story.7/10
Over the past few years it seems like the "lost footage" films are just getting more and more popular. I think because Paranormal Activity had perfected it, a lot of horror movies are copying off it. I do and I don't like it, the thing I like is that the look is authentic and you see it through the eyes of the victim, so you feel like you're in their shoes. But the thing I don't like is between the shaky cam effect that could be a bit dizzy is also that you don't get a good look at everything and on top of everything you're bound to get an ending that is usually lame because they're trying to sell that what you're seeing is real. What's one of the scariest places that you could imagine being in? Outer space! Like the tagline of Alien said, in outer space no one can hear you scream. There's no help and you're thousands of miles away from home. Man has not been to the moon for decades and this was an interesting way of saying why, even if it's fake, it's a great horror movie concept, but does fall a bit flat.In 1974, the crew of the previously-canceled Apollo 18 mission is informed that the mission is a go, though it has now been deemed a top secret Department of Defense mission. Commander Nate Walker, Lieutenant John Grey and Captain BenAnderson are launched towards the Moon to place detectors to alert the United States of any impending ICBM attacks from the USSR. Grey remains in orbit aboard the Freedom Command/Service module while Walker and Anderson land on the moon in the lunar module Liberty. While planting one of the detectors, the pair take samples of moon rocks. While attempting to sleep, the pair hear noises outside and a camera captures a small rock moving nearby. Houston claims the noises are interference from the ICBM detectors. They go exploring and find another module from Russia. Wondering where the cosmonaut is, they find him dead. Later on they are attacked by little bug like creatures and find out that this may be a mission that was never intended for them to survive. Now it's a struggle as there is no one to help them in space and the bugs are taking over their bodies.The really come a bit late and the film is a bit slow. Not to completely dismiss it as I said, it's a great idea for a scary movie. It really gave me the feeling that the men were so isolated and how horrifying it must have been for them. The whole setting and atmosphere did feel real and they did a great job of making you believe you were in space. However, since the characters are a bit under developed, I really didn't care too much about them. Not to get personal, but it didn't help that the two leads had my ex's names, lol. Since the film starts off slow and the action doesn't build up till the end, right when you're wanting more, of course that's where they leave the movie and you have to work to find out what happens next. The Blair Witch Project, Cloverfield, Cannibal Holocaust and Paranormal Activity did a great job with the "lost footage" effect, the rest so far have just been a horrible attempt to make a quick buck and unfortunately it's working.5/10
I'm not into martial arts films, just they never did make sense to me, so I wasn't really sure if I wanted to see The Forbidden Kingdom, but it did have things that I love: Jet Li and Jackie Chan, two huge stars and why didn't anyone think before to put them together?! It just seems like the perfect choice. So I finally decided to let down my guard and see The Forbidden Kingdom on Sunday, you know what? I am actually impressed, this is like a new coming of age film for the teens, which we haven't had in a long time. This film actually kind of reminded me of Neverending Story, which I'm sure most of you have seen and if you've seen The Forbidden Kingdom, you could maybe see the comparison as well. Jackie Chan and Jet Li make an incredible duo in this fun adventure film.Jason is a teenager in Boston who is just in love with martial arts, the films and pop culture mostly. He goes to this little Chinese store to get his films and other things, but when he is confronted by bullies, they make him take them to the store to get money. One of the bullies shoots the owner, the owner gives Jason a stick that takes him into another world, a world of adventure. He meets Lu Yan, who tells him that the stick must be returned to the monkey king and that the land will be safe again. The Silent Monk tries to get the stick, but realizes he could help and teach Jason the arts of kung fu.The Forbidden Kingdom has some awesome action moments, some good clean humor, and has a great cast that looked like they just had a blast together. For someone who doesn't really enjoy martial arts films, I thought this was a fun film because it offered something different. I do recommend this fun adventure film for the whole family, I really liked The Forbidden Kingdom, it's a new coming of age film that I'm sure anyone could enjoy.7/10
I read The Chronicles of Narnia: The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe in the 6th grade, it seriously was my favorite book that I could just read over and over again. When I first saw the trailer a few years ago for the film, I was scared to see it because I wasn't sure if it would ever compare to the book. But you know what? It's a film, that's a book, I don't like to compare the book to the movie because I think that's how people end up hating a movie is if it's not faithful to the book. A film is bound not to be like the book, some things have to be changed for entertainment or because there is no way to adapt a scene from a book onto film. So finally decided to just go ahead and give The Chronicles of Narnia: The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe the movie a chance and see what it was like. I watched it a couple days ago and really enjoyed how everything was presented and I felt like it was very faithful to the book after all.Lucy, Edmund, Peter, and Susan are all brothers and sisters, set in WWII in England, for safety's sake, their mother sends them to a friend's house. When they are playing hide and go seek, Lucy finds a closet, she goes in to discover a whole new world. A world called Narnia, she meets a faun(who is half man, half goat), Mr. Tumnus, who warns her to go back, that the White Witch will come after her. She goes back, but tells her brothers and sister, who eventually follow her into Narnia. But Edmund has been bribed by the evil White Witch to betray his brother and sisters. But they must work together to bring peace back into Narnia and are to be the future kings and queens.The Chronicles of Narnia: The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe is a wonderful film, to me it was kind of a new epic for the kids, like how Lord of the Rings isn't meant for kids, this was a film they could get into. I still prefer the book, things just lead up to your own expectations and imagination. But still the acting, the special effects, the story is just lovely and I'm sure that this is a film that you will definitely enjoy. It's a great family film, worth the watch.8/10
I mean did the cast and crew really look at the script and thought that this was a fantastic movie? Open Water was a pretty good and horrific movie that over all worked and many people enjoyed. With this sequel, while it wasn't too awful, it just could have been a thousand times better. Because the plot in some ways worked, how they forgot to put the ladder out on the boat, but it seems like like they didn't react the way normal people would act in the first 10 minutes, they were so quickly jumping on each other. Not to mention the story with the girl Amy with her dad drowning was good, but they played too much on it and some of the camera shots were a little unusual.Basically, 6 friends are celebrating a birthday, 4 of these friends have known each other for a while and haven't seen each other for 5 years, so it's a reunion for them. They go on their friend, Dan's yacht, and when they decide to go for a swim, they fail to remember the ladder and are stuck out in the water with no way to get back onto the boat. They quickly turn on each other and are getting very fatally injured one by one, while Amy's baby is on board crying and they have no way of reaching land or getting back on.It just seemed like over all the crew were amateurs and the story could have worked a lot better, I know just how I would have made it, like the story of Amy and her dad could have been told and not shown, the slow motion shots were out of no where and didn't keep my interest going. Like I said, I think it's a good idea, just not executed right, but please help yourself if you enjoyed the first one.3/10
Last year I saw the teaser trailer for Get Smart, Steve Carell throws a phone at the guy from Borat and it's on a wire and stops before it can hit him, I nearly died laughing and new I had to see this film. More and more trailers were released and this movie just looked more and more funny, I just couldn't wait to see it. I got to see it this week and I have to say that I was expecting this to be at least a nine out of ten rating. Steve Carell is such a great comedic actor and we had such a promising cast. Now I'm only 23 years old, so I haven't seen the series, but I know that it's a series that was made by Mel Brooks and was pretty popular back in the day, but I cannot judge it on what the series was. As a movie, I'd say it was good, as an all out comedy, I wasn't too thrilled. It has some really funny moments, I guess I've just seen all the screw ball comedies to the point where I am used to these stories by now.Maxwell Smart works with a secret agency, he's got the smarts, but not exactly the skill to be a secret agent. But when hot Agent 99 is on the case, Max is given a chance to work with her. They have to stop a terrorist who is threatening to blow up a building with the president. But with Max and Agent 99 on the case, Agent 99 being good at the skills, and Max at least having the brains, with the feelings they're doing their best to hide, they stick together and learn a few new tricks.Get Smart is a good movie, I would recommend it, I would more so would recommend though that you wait for the rental, the funny parts were already shown in the trailer unfortunately. The cast though was excellent and did make the movie work very well, the strange thing was is that Dwayne Johnson actually did a good job, he's proving more and more that he's a decent enough actor for the characters he's portraying. Another thing I did like is that they didn't make Max into a total idiot where he is like Steve Urkel or something. It's just too typical, Steve made Max into his own and the movie does still deliver good laughs, just I wish it could have been a little more.7/10
OK, I saw Australia back in December, so I'm a little rusty, forgive the late review. But looking back on this movie and just thinking about it really did help me in looking at the film and it's story. Australia was a movie that really tried to be the next Gone With The Wind for the millennium's audience. While it's a good movie, it definitely wasn't great and went way over the top. It's a little lengthy in the time and the writing was a little over done, BUT nevertheless it was still a good movie. It had terrific sets and was a beautiful setting, it felt like watching one of the old classic movies that made you feel good. Well, it was kinda like Titanic with the emotions, you were up, you were down, you were laughing, you were crying, well you get the idea. The story is a bit much, so I'm going to do the best I can to give you a decent summary.In 1939, Lady Sarah Ashley travels from England to northern Australia to force her philandering husband to sell his faltering Australian cattle station, Faraway Downs. Her husband sends an independent cattle drover , called simply "Drover", to Darwin to transport her to Faraway Downs. Lady Sarah's husband, who has been working hard to sell 1500 head of cattle to the military, is murdered shortly before she arrives. Meanwhile, treacherous FD cattle station manager Neil Fletcher is trying to gain control of Faraway Downs, so that neighboring Lesley 'King' Carney can have a cattle monopoly in the Northern Territory, which will give him negotiating leverage with the Australian army. The childless Lady Sarah is captivated by the young boy Nullah, who was born to an Aboriginal mother and an unknown white father. When Nullah and his mother hide from the white authorities by entering a water tower, his mother drowns. Drover is friendly with the Aborigines, and therefore shunned by many of the other whites in the territory. Lady Sarah and Drover develop a romance, and she gains a new appreciation for the Australian territory. But Carney's men poison all the water sources along the cattle-drive route, so the group risks driving the cattle through the dangerous Never Never desert, which they accomplish with the help of "King George". Two years later, Drover and Lady Sarah have lived together with Nulla. But Drover, who has been quarreling with Lady Sarah and has gone droving apparently never to return, hears that she has been killed in the bombing of Darwin. Drover finds out about Nullah's abduction to Mission Island, and sets out with Magarri and Ivan to rescue Nullah and the other children from the island using a sailboat. Whew, OK, I hope that summary is a good description of the movie since I haven't watched in a while, but I did the best I could. So in a quick sum up, the movie is worth the watch, for the background, it was worth watching in the theater. But you get the same effect if you watched it at home if you have a big screen TV and surround sound. Nicole and Hugh were a beautiful couple together, they did the best they could for such a lengthy story. But the chemistry was on and the movie did work, I think they just went a little too over the top on trying to make this movie into a classic or some kind of love fest for the Oscars. It's worth the watch, but I'd recommend just watching it at home, I don't think I can sit through a 3 hour movie again in the theaters, I'm really loosing my touch.7/10
I didn't know what to expect from Kung Pow: Enter the Fist, from the cover, it looked pretty stupid, but my boyfriend said that it was worth a look and that it was pretty funny if I was in the right mind set. But we watched it last night and even if I was in a normal mind set, I thought it was a pretty funny movie. I think I just needed one of those stupid comedies in my night, the one's where you don't have to think, just watch and laugh. Kung Pow: Enter the Fist was interesting where Steve Oedekirk took these old martial arts films and just made them into his own amusing comedy. I think the reason why this movie was so funny besides the ridicules voices was because Steve really had a passion for the film and his writing. Who among us has not made fun of the old martial arts films? It's great to see someone else bring it to life, even it at times it was a bit stupid.The Chosen One is one of the finest martial arts masters in the world, but his family was murdered when he was just a baby. When he meets the villain who murdered his family, he wants revenge. But he discovers that he needs more strength, with the help of his martial arts teacher, the love of his life that makes strange noises, and his wood chuck nun chucks, he learns the way of the martial arts and now must face the evil villain that plays popular music while defeating his opponents.Kung Pow: Enter the Fist is stupid, but I'm sure you'll get a couple laughs out of it. Like I said the voices are so over the top that you can't help but at least laugh at the movie if not with it. Steve and the rest of the crew looked like they had so much fun making this movie and they didn't take themselves too seriously. I really loved a lot of the spoofs they had like The Lion King, it was so out there, but it was really funny. Just give this movie a chance, I'm sure you'll have a fun time watching it if you just wanna laugh.6/10
When I was looking through the collection at Hollywood Video looking for a rental, I came across He Was a Quiet Man, I'm not sure why, but I picked up the film and just read what it was about. I had never heard of it before, but I enjoy Christian Slater, Elisha Cuthbert, and William H. Macy on screen, they're great actors and then I read on the summary "Office Space meets Taxi Driver", lol, I had to see this movie. So I watched it last night, I honestly have to say that I am taken back, this was not only a good movie, but had such knock out performances! Christian Slater, I always liked him in movies, but this performance, I am going to be honest, has to be the best of his career, I barely even recognized him, he was incredible. He makes Bob Maconel, his character, so sympathetic and understandable, that he holds the entire movie so well with class.Bob Maconel is your average working American citizen, unfortunately, he doesn't have the best looks, he lives alone(without the companionship of his talking gold fish), he's taken advantage of at work, and also has a huge crush on a beautiful co-worker, Venessa Parks who would never give him the time of day. Bob has just had it, one day he has a gun and just wants to go crazy in the office and shoot everyone, but guess what? Someone beat him to it, Bob shoots the guy, making him look like a hero, he also sees Venessa on the floor and saves her life, but she unfortunately is paralyzed. They start an interesting relationship, one that could make or break Bob's sanity once and for all.I seriously recommend this movie, it's definitely one of the most interesting films I have seen this year. The way the film was made and edited, at times was a little off, but seriously, it's the awesome performances that really make the film. Christian and Elisha really become their roles and are just incredible together, the scene where Venessa is paralyzed and wants to "please" Bob, just his reaction and her tear, the scene was so heart breaking, but touching. You'll have to see what I mean, but trust me, there are many great scenes in He Was A Quiet Man, this is a must see film.9/10
I was so excited to see Norbit, from the trailer, this actually looked like a very funny movie. When I saw the rating on IMDb, I thought maybe there was a chance people just took the movie too seriously, I wanted to check it out for myself. I don't mind fat jokes here and there, I liked the movie Shallow Hal, I also used to be heavy and lost all the weight, so I know what it's like to feel isolated in a society that praises thin people. But I never took it personally, I make fat jokes still for fun. But Norbit took it not only to a very racist level, but to a level where it makes it look like big people are hideous and mean monsters and that it's alright to ridicule them. The funny thing is, I wasn't intending on taking this movie seriously, until I saw it and did not laugh once.Norbit is a little whiny guy who has been pushed around his whole life. He was raised in an orphanage by Asian parents, when he is getting bullied one day, a plump black girl saves his butt, and offers to be his girlfriend, well, she kinda forces him to be. She takes him into her family where the men are a bit violent and have taken over the town. Norbit gets married to Rebestia, the little black girl that saved him, and they have a miserable life together. But he sees an old friend who is an attractive thin woman, and she wants to buy the orphanage and have Norbit help her with it, but it's hard when his obnoxious overweight wife won't let him.I don't know if Eddie read this script and actually thought it was funny, because it went onto a "Steve Urkel" level where Rebestia wasn't so funny as just more obnoxious. To be honest, none of the characters were funny or sympathetic at all. This was a very sad movie and should have never been made, I don't know what these actors were thinking, but this was not a funny comedy. Stay away from it, this is the point where Eddie Murphy is just loosing it in his career.1/10
I remember in 2003, my senior year of high school, all the trip I had to deal with on how The Fast and the Furious was the most awesome movie ever made. Then I had to deal with something new and horrifying, dun dun dun, the sequel! Not just any old sequel that did not have Vin Diesel, which would've made the movie better, but we now have rappers who are posing as actors. Now there are some above average actors who are rappers as well, like Ludicrous who proved himself a decent performance in Crash, but Tyrese was such a lousy performance and was more of a punk than a lovable anti-hero. Ludicrous does an alright performance, he and Devon Aoki were the only likable characters. Paul Walker, I have nothing against this guy, but his character was just so dead and I had such trouble believing him. But what can I say? I guess he's the looks of the film, so the girls could have their fun.Brian is still on the run for letting his friend, Dominic, go. His world hasn't changed though besides that he is not a cop, now he's back into the world of under ground street racing. But oh, no! He gets caught, but the FBI is offering him a chance at a clean slate if he and his juvenile friend to go under cover to get a criminal that they've been chasing. Of course, this criminal needs fast racers to do his evil deeds. With the help of the criminal's under cover hottie hottie hot hot girlfriend, the boys will figure out the evil deeds that are about to be done and will race their way to goodness.I seriously felt like I was watching an extended episode of Pimp My Ride, there was just another pointless plot where I didn't really care about Ludicrous and Paul Walker's relationship, of course who would've ever suspected that they would've ended up best friends again?! Well, I am hoping that Tokoyo Drift will have a good plot, I'm really rooting for it, I'm giving these films a good chance, but so far, these films have just been major disappointments. For the teenage culture, I'm sure they'll have a blast watching this, it's just a gigantic rap video.3/10
It's no secret, I love vampire movies, you can tell from my comments, I've seen a lot of them. From the 1920's to now, it doesn't matter, I love the myth, the horror and characters. In the 1980's, we had a few vampire movies, the most famous being The Lost Boys which is named as one of the all time favorites with fans when it comes to vampire movies. But it just so happened that the same year, another movie was made, a little independent film that kind of got the shaft in the advertising department compared to The Lost Boys and wasn't as much of a success, it's called Near Dark. I had always seen the cover whenever I went to the video store when I was a kid, but I have to admit that the VHS cover wasn't that appealing, so I feel bad that I gave the film a pass until now. I saw a lot of buzz on the internet when people talk about vampire films, this one came up quite a bit. I bought it on the spot and watched it a few weeks ago, I can see why this one made the top list a few times.One night, Caleb, a young man, meets a young drifter named Mae. Just before sunrise, she bites him on the neck then runs off. The rising sun causes Caleb's flesh to begin to burn. Mae comes with a group of roaming vampires and takes him away. The most unsociable of all the vampires, wanting to kill Caleb, but Mae reveals she has turned him into a vampire. Their charismatic leader, Jesse, reluctantly agrees to allow Caleb to remain with them for a week to see if he can learn to hunt and become a trusted member of their group. Caleb is unwilling to kill to feed, which alienates him from the others. To protect him, Mae kills for him then has him drink from her wrist. They are running short on their tempers to keep him in the group. Meanwhile, his family is looking for him and the gang of vampires may have found a new way of initiation for Caleb.So the good with this film: the vampires. One of the things I did like a lot that we don't get to see in some vampire films is that we get to know them not as monsters, but that they were once human. Also the frustration you feel for Homer, the little vampire, he's an old man trapped in a boy's body, something that was way before Interview with the Vampire with the character Claudia. Now it's not as detailed but it's still sad to see his struggles as he has a man's needs, but it looks wrong when you have a "young boy" hitting on an older woman. He's also smarter than the leader but can't do as much since it's an adult's world. Then we have Severon, played by Bill Paxton, and you can tell he had a lot of fun with this role. He looks and acts tough, he's the vampire you don't want to mess with, add in the dark humor and he's just vicious. Jesse, played Lance Henriksen, has charisma and you can tell off the bat, he's the "dad" of the family. Diamondback, played by Jenette Goldstein, is beautiful but deadly and like a mom to Homer. The love story between Caleb and Mae is sweet, but I don't think that was the true heart of the story as you find yourself more involved with the other vampires.The costumes, make up and sets are very cool. You have a great set of a western with a mix of biker, which can be contradicting at times, it does over all work. But there are some flaws with the movie. The ending is a huge cop out, which a lot of people seem to be in agreement with. I like the whole myth that if you haven't fed, if there is a transfusion of human blood put back into your body after being bit, you can return to normal. But then they do this with Mae, who was a full vampire and it felt like a cop out with unanswered questions. Did she want to be human? She didn't complain that much about being a vampire. Also when she bit Caleb, she barely bites him and he's turning into a vampire 5 minutes after? That's like saying when I get bit by a mosquito, I'll turn into one. The ending wasn't very well thought out and this film had so much more potential than they give. Maybe with a better budget I think this could've beaten a lot of vampire movies out of the water. But it's still a good one that I would recommend and would gladly watch again.7/10
Sadly, I've been to way too many funerals in my short life, every funeral I've been too is always sad and traditional, when I saw the trailer for Death at a Funeral, I knew this was a movie I had to see. I rented it a few days ago and I was so glad that I watched it, because sometimes I think that out of an extremely depressing situation, we need a good laugh just to relieve something in our bodies. The thing about Death at a Funeral, all these situations that happen are just horrible, but they made it into just this whole predicament into something worth laughing at. The actors just looked like they had the ultimate time making this film and enjoyed telling the story and that makes the movie so much more fun. From the beginning to the very end this movie is non stop in the laughs.Daniel is about to go through the toughest day, he has just lost his dad and is having the funeral at his house. From the first minute, the undertaker has brought the wrong corpse, and relatives are having a hard time getting there. When everyone finally comes and the right body is there, things go wrong again, Simon, a boyfriend of Sara(Dan's cousin), takes what he thinks is Valium, it's actually hallucinates and wonders onto the roof naked. Daniel bumps into a short man, Peter, who is claiming that he has slept with Dan's dad and will tell everyone if he doesn't give him money. The situations jut get wackier as the film continues.Death at a Funeral is just so funny, it's horrible situations, but you can't help but laugh, especially at Simon's situation with the hallucinates, him in the bathroom with the toilet paper was just priceless. The actor that played him, played him off perfectly and didn't go over the top with the situation that most actors would've made unbelievable. I highly recommend this movie, it will give you a guaranteed laugh, I mean, during Daniel's eulogy, if you don't laugh, I think you'll have to have your funny bone checked.9/10
I don't know for how long, but my mom has been begging me to watch Bandits, I think because I keep telling her how gorgeous Bruce Willis is, she just knows what I will normally like. So, I finally broke down and watched Bandits last night and over all, I'd have to say that I did like it. It was a different kind of story that was refreshing to be honest, it had an interesting story that really has not been done before. It also has some terrific actors not to mention that all present the story very well. Bruce, Billy Bob, and Cate all had a great chemistry that made the story funny and lovable. But for me, as much as I am a fan of Billy Bob and Bruce, I think Cate was the one who stole the movie and really made the story just such a pleasure to watch.Terry and Joe are two bank robber bandits on the run from the law. They're not your average bank robbers, they are charming and usually get their way with robbing every bank. They are also combined the perfect man: Terry is smart and sensitive and Joe is adventurous and spontaneous. One day when they have to meet each other, Terry hijacks a car with a unhappily, depressed married woman, Kate, who begs them if she can stay with them. Joe decides to let her stay, and they both end up falling for her. But she loves them both and is now on the run with them instead of being their hostage.Bandits is just a fun film over all. I'd say that it's enjoyable and tells the story very well, it has some dark humor in it as well that makes it in some ways light hearted and gives you a breath as well as a laugh. Cate was so beautiful and proved that she could also do a comedy as well as she brilliantly acts in drama's. Bruce and Billy Bob were so much fun to watch, especially in their final bank robbery scene, you'll see what I mean, it's a cool ending. I would recommend Bandits, it's a good film with great actors, just sit back and enjoy.6/10
I don't know why I picked up Waiting..., but the only thing that got me is that I am a fan of Ryan Renolds and Anna Farris, both of them worked so well together in Just Friends, so I guess I was expecting the same chemistry in Waiting... So I watched it yesterday and this movie just had such 7th grade humor that I wasn't really impressed with it. But at the same time I was so disturbed at how much of this movie is probably true to real life, I tell you one thing, because of this movie I don't wanna go out to eat for a while. There were some funny moments, but at for the most part this was mostly just immature humor.The story takes place within one day of the waiters and cooks at a restaurant and what their lives are like. We have Morty, a guy who is pretty immature and charms his way through life. We have Serena, a hot girl who flirts her way through life along with the minor hostess who is a bit too disturbing. We have Dean who wants a grown up job; the cooks who love sex and a penis showing game. And the manager who is just the looser who wants these waiter's social lives, and a waitress who seriously needs to get a grip. And guess what? They're training a new guy who can't get one word in on what he thinks about all this.Waiting... is sometimes amusing and funny, where you might laugh out loud a couple times. But at the same time I think that you have to have a certain sense of humor to enjoy this movie, because I don't really understand it's decent rating on IMDb, but apparently this movie works for some people. So if you don't like gross out humor, I wouldn't recommend this movie, but if you're open, you could go ahead and give it a look and just judge for yourself.5/10
With the recent disappointments that have been in the spoof movie genre, we needed something fresh and funny, well we're not getting that obviously. But ever since the Friedberg/Seltzer team has joined in the "I can make a movie too" bandwagon, we were begging the Waynes Brothers to come back. The last really funny spoof movies are the Scary Movie series, they were clever and in our faces about the clichés in horror movies. The past few years we have had a major thing with dance movies like: Save the Last Dance, Step Up, Stomp the Yard, You Got Served, Honey, etc. Leave it to the Wayanes Brothers to finally put this genre in it's over clichéd and overused scripts in it's place. Unfortunately Dance Flick did not meet my expectations, it was one of those movies that used all the funny clips in the trailer. I can't even believe how many problems there was with this movie, wither it's the editing, acting, or direction, Dance Flick is a let down.Megan is a former dancer who goes to a new school where everyone can magically sing and dance. She meets some new friends like Tracy, Charity and Thomas who is in a street dance gang. When Thomas and Megan connect they must face their "impossible" dreams together. Trying to "bring it", they work together to bring the ultimate dance group together. They also must face the difficulty of having a inter-racial relationship, as black women and white men passing them by, they try to pretend their love isn't real. But will they put all aside to help Thomas and his crew win the five grand to pay back his sponsor? Well, if you've see the "dance flicks" of the past decade, you know how it goes.Now for some odd reason I did get a few laughs out of a stupid movie like Meet the Spartans, but that was because I kept my expectations low and knew what I was going into. With Dance Flick it was completely different, I was really excited because we have a really funny team working on the film. But they relied too much on the gross jokes, instead of getting a laugh from them, they keep pushing on the gross jokes too much on the audience and it just didn't work. The actors seemed to force their comedy too much as well where they were just not funny. The movie was also, like most spoof movies, was way too short as well, the stories didn't make sense and were just too random. I'm sorry to say that Dance Flick is just a bad movie, it has a couple giggles here and there, but the audience was silent throughout most of the film. I'd say to skip the movie, if you really want to see it, go for the rental.2/10
I have to tell you from the minute that I saw The Ruins trailer, I knew I wanted to see this movie, we've been needing a good horror movie, especially for 2008. So I didn't hesitate to see the movie today; I'm actually a little disappointed. Now with the pro's, we've got an awesome plot, it's a little unoriginal with the gore and the shock(ever since Hostel came out, it's hard to get a little more shocked) but the plot works and makes the movie extremely disturbing and makes you move around your seat and uncomfortable. The only problem I had was the characters, they were either very dis-likable or didn't even have any depth, so you didn't care wither they lived or died. It's a typical horror movie mistake, characters are neglected and we are left guessing, but this is still worth the watch for the non-stop scares.A four friends are on vacation in Mexico, just enjoying the time, getting drunk, dancing, the usual stuff. But when another man, a Greek named Mathias, invites them to explore the famous ruins of the land, he's also looking for his brother who disappeared there, so he wants to see if he's still there. When the group goes there, they are confronted by a tribe who cannot speak English or Spanish, and when one of the guys touches the vines, he is shot and killed, the others are told to get up onto the pyramid that's covered in vines. They have to figure a way out while being trapped there by the armed tribe, but something has gotten "under their skin".The Ruins is a decent horror movie, the best I've seen? For the year, sadly, yes, which I'm hoping there will be some promising horror movies to come up. I'm just disappointed with the characters and their development, the girls were obnoxious and the guys were stupid. But the effects were cool and creepy, I think we all have that fear of these flesh eating viruses, so this concept worked. I also liked that it wasn't so jumpy and it didn't try so hard to scare. I would recommend it for a watch, but I'm just warning you that it's not what it's all hyped up to be.6/10
My friend just showed me Hard Candy, I was really looking forward to this movie because I saw that it was nominated for a few awards on the FUSE channel, or something like that for horror movies. She said this is one of those movies that will leave you puzzled at the end and I have to say that I was speechless after finishing it. It was so interesting because like the movie "Clockwork Orange", the director in some sick way makes you feel sorry for a second for a deranged man who is a pedophile and a murderer. I never really did like those type of movies, but for some odd reason I liked this one.Haylie is a 13 year old girl who meets a charming 32 year old man off the internet, he claims to be a photographer and shoots young aspiring models who are in their teens. He takes her to his apartment, let's her make sexual flirts with him, let's her drink alcohol, and let's her start to do a strip tease, little does he know the joke is on him when he passes out and wakes up to being tied in a chair and has been drugged by Haylie. She won't let him go until he has learned his lesson... or will she? The "operation" scene was one of the most disturbing scenes I have ever witnessed, it was so crazy and insane. But I really loved how intelligent Haylie was, I know that this sounds crazy but she did everything that every pedophile should go through, probably worse. Even though it seems like he should in some sick way get sympathy, you still want Haylie to get the message through to him. This was a great movie, I would highly recommend it, but I warn you it is not for the faint of heart.9/10
When we were kids one of the shows you were pretty much guaranteed to see was The Muppets. At least everyone knows the characters like Kermit the Frog and Miss Piggy. The Muppets were colorful, funny and the whole family just loved them. Including celebrities, back in the 1970's, The Muppets had every guest star you could imagine including Alice Cooper. Over the decades, The Muppets have never lost their appeal so naturally a movie would eventually come their way again. Disney decided to make a movie just dedicated to the celebration of the Muppets and how much we love them. Making a musical about them is a great idea and seeing the love and joy that went into this movie gave The Muppets a chance for a whole new generation to fall in love with them all over again.Walter, a man born as a Muppet, lives with his human brother Gary in Smalltown. They became Muppet fans when they watched The Muppet Show in their youth. Gary plans a vacation to Los Angeles with his girlfriend Mary to celebrate their tenth anniversary, and he invites Walter along so he can tour the Muppet Studios. Mary feels that Gary's devotion to Walter is detracting from their relationship. In Los Angeles, the three visit the abandoned Muppet studio. During the tour, Walter sneaks into Kermit the Frog's office and discovers Statler and Waldorf selling the theater to Tex Richman, an oil magnate, and his henchmen Bobo the Bear and Uncle Deadly. Waldorf explains that if the Muppets can raise $10 million they can repurchase the theater. Walter overhears Richman revealing his plans to destroy the Muppet Theater and drill for oil underneath. Now Walter wants to get all the Muppets back together, get the popularity going again and save the theater.When I first saw the trailer for The Muppets, I did want to see it because who doesn't love these characters? Plus it would be neat to see an update in the world and see how Kermit and Piggy would react to the new technology around them. But I never got to see it in the theater and my friends said that it was a very cute movie. So I rented it as soon as it came out on DVD and I was actually kind of disappointed. Not in the Muppets, they were a pleasure to watch on the screen again, but the choice to put Jason Segal and Amy Adams in it threw me off. I don't mind having actors in the film, but as the leads and seeing the way they interact with the Muppets was just strange to me. Maybe a little too goody-two-shoes also, feeling like this was meant for just the kids and not for the whole family. Not dismissing the film, like I said there are some really funny moments. I loved the villains of the film and how they cued themselves to laugh maniacally. Seeing the problems in the relationship between Kermit and Piggythough I never thought that to be the healthiest relationship on the planet, it was still cute to see these two still fall in love all over again. Opposites do attract as we can always see with those two. But I do recommend this for the younger kids, I'm not sure if the adults could get into as much. The film is lovely but should've just stuck to having the Muppets as the main stars.6/10
Think back to the 90's with Adam Sandler, he was a writer/performer on SNL and had several hit movies. Back in the day, his baby sounds and squished faces were not only cute but hilarious. Now, like all humans, he gets older, but mentally is stuck in the 90's where people found his movies very funny. Now, the strange thing is, Adam Sandler has proved a couple of times that he could be a good dramatic actor. I'm not sure why he hasn't moved on probably because his best friends are desperate for money and he's got to keep his dumb movie company "Happy Madison" going, so naturally he writes a bad story with predictable jokes and for some reason he thinks he's so funny, so naturally the movie somehow gets green lighted and that leads us to Jack and Jill. I was warned several times that this movie was awful, but one of my friends wanted to see this movie and rented it. She begged me to watch it with her and told me that I should keep an open mindfair enough, right? I was thinking I was too close minded and I should let go and just have a good laugh. So during the movie, my expression did not change, I just couldn't laugh at anythingI look over and my friend is laughing hysterically. Why am I not having the same reaction? I don't know, but I guess I'm one of the rare people that are seeing the down fall of society with Sandler's movies.Jack, a successful advertising executive in Los Angeles with a beautiful wife and two kids, Sofie and Gary. Jack is incredibly irritated about the Thanksgiving visit of his "identical" twin sister Jill. Following a series of problems from the airport to the house, Jack's patience is soon stretched increasingly thin. Jill's neediness and passive-aggressiveness is maddening to Jack, turning his normally tranquil life upside down. Jill says she has a list of things she wants to do before she leaves; she wants to be on a game show, go horseback riding, and do a studio tour. Meanwhile, Jack's client wants him to get Al Pacino to appear in a Dunkin Donuts commercial. Jill tries online dating, but doesn't get much of a response until Jack alters her profile, leading her to get over 100 responses. Jack feels bad so he takes her to the Lakers game where Al Pacino is supposed to be. He is there and he develops a crush on Jill as he gives her his phone number. Now the commercial is dependent on her taking a liking to Al Pacino.One thing that I wonder: what the heck did Adam Sandler do to these celebrities who make a cameo in the film? Johnny Depp, one of the greatest actors of our generation makes a cameo. Shaqwell, I withdraw my question on that one. But Al Pacino, did Adam Sandler take a picture of the guy luring children into his gingerbread house or something? But given credit where it's due, Al seems to be the only one putting any effort into this movie. Adam Sandler's character of Jill is very close in the running for most obnoxious characters in cinema history. What I don't get is how in this universe that anyone can stand her? She's loud, racist, crude, ugly and just plain annoying, yet somehow people defend her and somehow 2 guys get a crush on her?! Plus I love how in every Sandler movie now that he writes, his character is: successful, "good-looking", has a gorgeous wife, smart, witty and everyone just admires him of course. This movie in itself is a big joke and I really tried to enjoy myself, but just have to go with the negative reviews on this film, it really is that bad. As for people like other users and my friend who found it funny, try watching other movies. I promise, there's a whole world of comedy out there that is much better than this.1/10
You remember after the film Halloween how in the 1980's we had a stream of the bad but nevertheless fun slasher films? They had pointless sex scenes, nudity, great gore, scary villains and cheesy unbelievable situations where the girl somehow runs up the stairs vs. just running out the front door away from the killer. See, a lot of critics looked down upon these movies and they were the genre that your parents steered you away from so we took them for granted after the millions of sequels we had for every horror franchise. Then the 90's came where we thought the horror genre was out, we had Scream that was supposed to crush the slasher genre once and for all. Then for a long time, because we started missing our taken for granted slasher movies, we wanted them back and they were brought back in re-makes sadly. But then came Hatchet and bless the writers and director because this was the exact horror movie that we needed.During a Mardi Gras celebration in downtown New Orleans, Ben and his best friend Marcus, who have come to have some fun since Ben's girlfriend of eight years recently dumped him. Ben decides to go on a haunted swamp tour, and Marcus agrees to go with him. A local suggests that they try a place owned by the over-the-top, inexperienced tour guide Shawn. is also there. Ben pays for himself and Marcus and Shawn leads them to his tour bus, where the other tourists, Misty, a ditzy porn star, and Jenna, up-and-coming actress, their sleazy director, Shapiro, Mr. and Mrs. Permatteo, and the quiet, hot-tempered Marybeth are waiting. Shawn leads them through swamplands and past abandoned houses, including one where Victor Crowley, a deformed creature, lived. Shawn mentions "one night Victor's dad goes crazy and whacks him in the face with a hatchet" while looking at "ghost lights"; however, Mrs. Permatteo sees someone in the trees, and Shawn accidentally crashes into a rock, sinking the boat, leading the group into a night of terror with the supposed legend that is just a little bit angry and a little hatchet happy.I had heard a lot of great things about Hatchet, I bought it without even seeing it and it was totally worth it. This is a movie that I really needed because sometimes you have to see the pointless moments, hear the cheesy one liners and of course have the extreme stereotypes. Not to mention that this was a pretty scary movie and I just had a great time watching it. I loved how it didn't hold back with the gore, the kills were what really put the cherry on the sundae, because once it starts, it just doesn't stop. Plus it's great to see the villain go back to the basics with a classic scary weapon like a hatchet. I'm definitely going to buy the sequel and hopefully it's just as good, though most franchises stand a chance. But if it has the same writer or director on it, I'm sure it stands a chance. I highly recommend Hatchet, especially to those who miss the classic 80's slasher genre. Who knows if Victor Crowley is the next Jason, Michael or Freddy, but we need a new anti-hero to haunt our dreams and Hatchet just might do that.8/10
I have heard pretty much mostly good reviews when it came to Major League, and I am a baseball fan, so I definitely wanted to give Major League a look. I was lucky, my mom has one and two, so last night I finally sat down and watched it and I have to say that I had a few good laughs here and there. I loved the scene where the guys had their first prayer and the monk set a fire for his little doll that he worships and it set off the sprinklers! Basically, Rachel Pheleps is the new owner of the Cleveland Indians after her husband dies, and she doesn't like Cleveland. In order to move the team to a warmer climate like Miami, she has to have a low audience for the games and she hires the worst team possible. But they prove themselves to be more, especially when the team finds out that Rachel wants the team to loose, they pull themselves together to win the games! Major League had some good laughs and I would recommend it for anyone, even those baseball haters, just have a good time. Charlie Sheen really stole the show as Wild Thing! I loved how he had his sleeves cut off all the time, even for formal events. Major League is a fun comedy that I'm sure anyone could get at least one good laugh out of.7/10
Remember back in the golden era of movies that was the 1980's? Well, not so much golden as more implausible, but still one of the decade's best genres was horror movies. The one's that have become silly fun cult classics over the years because of it's unbelievable plot, excessive amount of blood and sex that scared and thrilled the audience at the same time. Piranha came out in the later 1970's, I saw it on TV when I was a child with my parents, in fact we always joked how it was a family movie and since it was right before Christmas it was a holiday film. But it was a very cheesy film along with it's predecessors, I mean, come on, Piranha 2 had flying fish. Nevertheless, it needed an upgrade and who knew that Alexandre Aja could pull it off? Now I do like this director, he always does a great death scene in his movies even if they are a bit dull and he delivered in the gore and guts this time. This movie knew exactly what it was and didn't try to pretend otherwise because it's just a really stupid plot. The fact that I enjoyed this movie was just a surprise to me, it's just a bloody good time with some great laughs and fun scares.Piranha is about a boy Jake who reunites with his old crush, Kelly during spring break, before being chased off by her boyfriend. He meets Derrick Jones an eccentric pornographer, and Danni, one of his actresses. Derrick convinces Jake to show him the hot spots on the beach for an upcoming pornographic film the following day. Meanwhile, Jake's mother, Sheriff Julie Forester, searches for the missing Matthew Boyd at night with Deputy Fallon, who has found Boyd's boat. They find his mutilated body and contemplate closing the beach down. Eager to enjoy spring break for once, Jake bribes his younger sister and brother, to stay home alone so that he can show Derrick around the beach with Danni. Jake goes to meet with Derrick but encounters Kelly first, who invites herself onto Derrick's boat. Two scientist divers explore the opening in the lake that the body was found in, Novak speculates that the rift is a passage to a prehistoric lake buried underneath. Paula and Sam scuba dive to the bottom, discovering a large cavern at the mouth of the opening, containing large egg stalks. Sam is torn apart by a massive school of piranha when he ignites a flare; Paula scrambles to escape but is eaten. Novak and Julie pull her corpse into the boat, capturing a lone piranha still attached. Novak and Julie take it to the pet shop owner, Mr. Goodman, who examines the fish and explains that the piranha are a long-extinct prehistoric species, and had been trapped in the underground lake for over two million years and need to be stopped before they reach spring break.One of the pleasures of this film was seeing Christopher Lloyd who is playing his mad scientist side from Back to the Future. He was way too funny and said his lines with spunk and made his role absolutely memorable. Richard Dreyfuss gets his due with his cameo, pretty much playing homage to Jaws. The cast seemed to have a good time, but the stars of the film that top the cake are the extras. I was thinking about how much fun it must have been to be an extra in that film because you can tell there are people that are over exaggerating their deaths but just having a total blast with it. Not to mention the incredible deaths that will make you cringe, scream and as bad in taste as this sounds but also laugh. This is one of those films that you just have sit back and have a very good time with, letting go of your "critic" self. There is a ton of nudity in the film, just a warning to those who find it offensive. But once again, it falls into that category where I can let it go because it's all done in a comedic way. I had a good time watching Piranha, as silly as it was, it didn't take itself seriously, so you shouldn't either. I'm recommending this film to those who just want a fun horror movie, this is not for the squeamish however seeing as there's a certain hot dog shaped human part that is chewed up by a piranha and just spit back out.7/10
My friend and I saw 1408 yesterday, it looked like such an exciting thriller, and I was even more excited to see it when I saw what great reviews it was getting. 1408 is a guaranteed scare, this film was incredibly intense and very well told. A lot of the scenes were some of the most terrifying that I've seen in film for a while. Not to mention we have not had a great Stephen King flick for a while, so this was a great way to jump back into the game. John Cussack did a terrific job, considering all he had to face in this role, what he had to do on his own, he had to carry the film and did a fantastic job. Way to go, John!Mike is an author who has written books mostly about places that are haunted, but he's not really famous and his books are not really on the best seller's list. He receives an interesting postcard from The Dolphin Hotel in New York saying "Don't go to 1408". He goes to the hotel and gets the room anyways despite the warnings and repeated attempts and bribery's from the manager, Gerold. Mike starts off normally, not impressed with the room, despite it's horrific stories of suicides, drownings, and bizarre behavior from people. Things go from normal to bad fast, he witnesses haunting moments from his past, his father, and his young daughter who passed away from an illness. Not to mention ghosts that just keep coming and coming at him while the room drives his sanity to the brinks.I would very much recommend 1408, it's the best thriller of the year so far. But I do have a few complaints, maybe I just need to read the book, but like how did the room get evil? Why was the father so haunting to him? There are a few more questions, but I would appreciate some answers if you have them or some impute. Otherwise, please enjoy, this was a great horror/thriller movie that is going to be a huge classic down the road.8/10
Fantastic Four: Rise of the Silver Surfer, was supposed to be one of the big summer events, but over all didn't make it as huge of an impact as expected, but I was hearing pretty good things from my friends who saw it. But I wanted to wait for the rental since I really wasn't into the first one, the first one just was so silly and didn't keep my attention. I have to say that Fantastic Four: Rise of the Silver Surfer was definitely better than I expected and so much better than the original Fantastic Four, but I think I will probably skip out on the next sequel, this just isn't my type of super hero story. But that's the way Marvel has always been, very cheesy and silly, but the hero's always save the day. I think also I'm having a problem since Jessica Alba is getting nothing but the "hot factor" publicity lately, so I can't help but be sarcastic during her scenes where it seems like she really can't act, no offense to her. But Fantastic Four: Rise of the Silver Surfer is just glitzy effects with a fun story.The fantastic four are back and Sue and Reed are about to get married, but that is quickly interrupted when a planet eating rock is about to destroy their world. The Silver Surfer is destroying country by country and when they get ahold of him they know his surfing board is the source of his power and if put into the wrong hands, well, things could just get so much worse. But the fantastic four ban together to save the world once again.Fantastic Four: Rise of the Silver Surfer is definite entertainment, a lot of special effects and a decent story, but the actors are still not that great in my opinion. I feel actually so bad because I know there are a lot of comic book fans who love this kind of story and grew up with the fantastic four, but I guess I should just stick to Batman, I prefer the darker stuff, for super hero's I always thought that yeah, they should have some cheesiness to the story, but not when it takes over the whole film, you know? But I would recommend if you're just looking for a fun little action film, it is major eye candy, I'm talking mostly about Jessica Alba though, lol, just kidding.5/10
When I saw the trailer for She's Out of my League, I have to admit that I laughed, but I was thinking that if I had seen this movie, it would probably be a let down. One of those "you saw the funny parts in the trailer" movies. But still, I saw the movie just keeping my expectations low as most romantic comedies are just awful. Much to my pleasant surprise, She's Out of My League was a really funny movie that I enjoyed very much. In a society obsessed with looks and being perfect, most romantic comedies have these gorgeous people in the leads who don't look like they need any help in their love lives, we finally get a lead who isn't drop dead gorgeous as for Hollywood standards getting a beautiful person. Though I do wish we could have a romantic comedy with the opposite, not so hot girl gets the hot guy, I guess we'll have to wait a while for that. But She's Out of My League does deliver in the laughs and entertainment with great chemistry with our two leads and supporting cast.Kirk is in his mid-20s who has a low self-esteem and, by his own admission, has not accomplished very much in life. He works at the Pittsburgh International Airport as a security officer and has very few goals other than trying to get back together with his self-centered ex-girlfriend Marnie. Marnie ended her relationship with Kirk two years ago and is highly dismissive of his continued romantic interests. However, she has remained close with Kirk's parents and overbearing brother and continues to participate in family activities along with her new boyfriend. With no relationship and an awkward family life, Kirk confides in his three close male friends who also work with him at the airport. Then at work one morning, a strikingly beautiful woman named Molly arrives at the passenger terminal for a flight to New York. She and Kirk exchange a few smiles and flirtatious words, and she then proceeds to her flight, accidentally leaving her iPhone in the airport security area. Upon realizing she has misplaced it, Molly calls her phone and Kirk, back at the security checkpoint, answers. To everyone's surprise Molly really likes Kirk, his friends constantly remind him he's a 5 and she's a 10, so he feels the pressure to keep her around.What I liked most about this movie was how it wasn't a COMPLETE cliché, Molly's hot ex wants her back, but he doesn't go through outrageous attempts to get her back or anything, he's just as insecure as our leading male. It turns out that the only reason why Kirk is uncomfortable dating Molly is because he is reminded on a daily basis on how average he is and how he'll never get a gorgeous or sophisticated woman like Molly. A lot of people can relate to that, heck, how many times on the street do we see an unattractive looking person with someone who is really good looking and make a judgment? I loved how even his family were a bunch of jerks and not the typical "we're rooting for our son" mentality, they actually almost preferred his ex's new boyfriend over him, how sad is that? She's Out of My League is a big recommendation from me, definitely worth the rental when it comes out, it's one of the better romantic comedies that I've seen.7/10
I had absolutely no interest what so ever in seeing Employee of the Month, let's face it, Jessica Simpson does not equal movie of the year. But my friends and I were stuck inside yesterday and my friend's brother rented Employee of the Month and said that it was pretty funny, so we decided to watch it. While I admit there were a few funny moments, it's the same pointless humor that you see in an average comedy. Jessica, well, even though she wasn't horrible, she wasn't that much of an addition to the cast, her part was just smiles and giggles, so it wasn't that much of a part.Basically, Guy is an employee at a "Sam's Club" sort of speak, only he doesn't take his work very seriously, Vince is the only employee who goes above and beyond his work making employee of the month for 17 months in a row and is about to win a car if he wins employee of the month once again. But all that changes when a new girl, Amy, starts working with them and now Guy and Vince are competing for employee of the month since they heard about Amy only liking the best workers. But Guy is about to... you guessed it... loose touch with who he really is and same with loosing his friends.While it's a pretty stupid movie, I have to admit that I had a few laughs here and there, it's silly humor, but it's all good. But I'm very serious and not just saying this, Jessica really needs to stay away from film because she doesn't add much to the screen besides incredibly low cut tops for the teenage boys. But this is one of those movies you have to decide for yourself, because if I actually had a few laughs, I'm not sure if my brain is functioning correctly.4/10
Mel Gibson back before all the trouble he has gotten himself into now a days, the in between days as I like to call them, he was voted as the sexiest man alive. Surprisingly he didn't do romantic comedies, mainly action or epic adventure films. He starred in What Women Want with Helen Hunt. This is also back when romantic comedies actually cared about their stories and the characters and were not just made for a cheap buck, so we have some actual depth to the story here. Typical with a lot of stories, what do women want? As a woman, I can give you an honest answer, I don't know and neither does any other woman. We all want different things and that's what this film is about, the man who thinks that he knows everything about women as most people know someone like that when you know the truth is that they're just clueless. We've had a lot of plots like this where a man has dressed, talked or acted like a woman to find out what we're thinking or why we do things the way we do them. What Women Want takes a different approach in making Mel Gibson actually hear the women's thoughts.Nick Marshall, a Chicago ad executive, grew up with his showgirl mother, and is a chauvinist. He is skilled at selling to men and seducing women. However, just as he thinks he's headed for a promotion, his manager Dan informs him that he is hiring the talents of Darcy McGuire instead, to broaden the firm's appeal to women. Needing to prove himself to Darcy and Dan, Nick attempts to think of copy for a series of feminine products that Darcy gave out. However he slips and falls into his bathtub while holding an electric hairdryer, electrocuting himself. The next day, Nick wakes up able to understand women's innermost thoughts. Nick eavesdrops on women's thoughts and uses their ideas as his own, but also develops real friendships with his co-workers. But as he spends more time with Darcy, he is attracted to her. Nick and Darcy begin to spend more time together, and ultimately kiss. When he manages to trump Darcy out of her idea for a new Nike ad campaign aimed at women, he regrets his selfishness, especially as it leads to her being fired and him in a compromising situation.The film is alright, nothing too special or memorable but definitely more charming than a lot of romantic comedies. My main complaint being is just the story with Marissa Tomei's character, Mel Gibson had been trying to get a date with her as a womanizer, then when he can hear her thoughts she of course thinks he's the greatest man in the world. As soon as he starts falling for Helen Hunt, he kind of just drops Marissa making you wonder if he had really learned anything at all, it was a story that was not needed and hurt the film. Also same with the "nerd in glasses" girl, very dark and again not really needed or could have been a bit lighter. But What Women Want is a crisp and fun little comedy that is worth the watch, Mel and Helen were a pleasure to watch together and had good chemistry. Some very touching moments, even if the script was a bit of a cliché. But it's a harmless movie that I did enjoy over all.7/10
Who doesn't like Christmas? Or at least parts of it? One of my favorite things about Christmas are the movies and stories that come with it. One of the most classic stories is Charles Dickens' classic A Christmas Carol, the ending always gets in me in tears and reminds me why Christmas can be so special. I love every rendition of the story: A Muppets Carol, Scrooged, the classic Christmas Carol from the 80's and so on, even the cheesy TV specials. Honestly, when I first heard about this movie, I had my doubts. The CGI fest really freaks me out, it's like we are being replaced with animation and like we won't need real actors in the future. But someone lent me the movie and I decided to give it a fair chance since I love this story and I'm glad I did because I was pleasantly surprised with A Christmas Carol.Ebenezer Scrooge, a bitter old moneylender at a counting house hates everything that embodies the joys and spirit of Christmas. He refuses to visit his cheerful nephew Fred at his Christmas dinner party with his family, and forcing his underpaid employee Bob Cratchit to beg to take the day off for his own family. That night, Scrooge is visited by the ghost of his former business partner Jacob Marley who had died seven years prior on Christmas Eve and is now forced to spend his afterlife carrying heavy chains that were forged from his own greedy ways. Marley warns Scrooge that he will suffer an even worse fate if he does not repent and foretells that he will be haunted by three spirits that will help guide him: The Ghost of Christmas Past, The Ghost of Christmas Present and The Ghost of Christmas Future. They take him on a journey in what was, is and can be if he doesn't change soon.Though the animation still bothers me as I don't think you can convey real human emotion through the CGI people, but I really did like this movie a lot. I thought the whole atmosphere was just gorgeous and really captured the colors of Christmas. All the voice actors did an incredible job, though one complaint is what the heck was with Jim Carrey's accent? He's trying to be British but sounds like Borat trying to do an English Accent. I loved the animation on the ghosts, they were just breath taking. I'm also relieved that they didn't water down the horror of the ghosts, they were genuinely frightening and a lot of the imagery was very haunting. A lot of people forget that the novel despite having a wonderful ending is very scary at the same time. It took being frightened out of his wits that Scrooge changes.I really did like this version of A Christmas Carol and I think some people are being a bit too harsh. I'm not saying that it's not without flaws, but it tells the story beautifully and doesn't insult the children's intelligence. It's beautifully set and wonderfully acted, I think Charles Dickens would be proud of this presentation. It's a timeless story that can be told in many different ways, but sometimes you can't go wrong with the simple classic style. A Christmas Carol is sure to become a classic in years to come, it deserves another chance.9/10
Ah, 2D animation, how I've missed it. I feel awful for the new generation, it seems like they would never have the same experience that I had growing up with The Little Mermaid, Beauty and the Beast, Aladdin, or The Lion King. I always loved the 2D animation because of the hard work and love that goes into it, not to put down any of the recent Pixar or computer animation films, they're great too, just hand drawn is more special to me. So we have The Princess and the Frog, not only our first 2D animated film in years, but a breakthrough for Disney as we have a black princess. Disney has experimented with different cultures and races, but oddly no lead that was black and I think it was a great idea. I've been looking forward to seeing this movie, so when I was able to rent it, I didn't even hesitate putting it in my DVD player. Over all, I really did enjoy the movie, it had great animation, fun songs, and a good twist on an old fairy tale. I'm not sure if this will become a Disney classic down the line, but it was definitely worth the watch.A waitress and aspiring restaurant owner Tiana tries to fulfill her late father's dream in New Orleans. She is working two jobs just to save up enough money to secure the ideal building for her restaurant. Meanwhile, Prince Naveen has arrived in New Orleans determined to better his financial situation. After being cut off by his parents, Naveen is forced to marry a rich southern belle. It soon becomes obvious that Tiana's best friend and the rich sugar baron's daughter, Charlotte LaBouff, is the perfect candidate. Lurking in the shadows is voodoo master, Dr. Facilier. Angry at the neglect he receives from the rich and powerful, Facilier ropes the money-hungry Naveen and his emotionally abused sidekick, Lawrence, into a terrible scheme that involves turning Naveen into a frog. Lawrence, through the use of a voodoo talisman, adopts the prince's likeness and sets out to marry Charlotte with plans to split the money with Facilier who has some shady plans of his own. Thanks to an unfortunate circumstance and one magical kiss Tiana loses the bid to her dream restaurant and is transformed into a frog. In a moment of desperation, she strikes a deal with Naveen, which demands that after he marries Charlotte, he shall buy her restaurant. Things begin to change however, as the two mismatched frogs start to fall in love.I loved all the characters in this movie, Tiana kind of reminded me of Belle from Beauty and the Beast, very strong and independent, a great influence for little girls. A great comic relief came from Louis, the trumpet playing alligator, I loved his little story of how he first started playing the trumpet in front of humans and it didn't work out so well. Shadow made for a great villain, he had the best song in the film and was very creative as I'm glad he didn't have a goofy side kick, his scary shadows worked well with him. My only thing with the film is that for some odd reason it didn't really stand out to me like I thought it would, I kind of wished that Prince Naveen would have different reasons for why he was cut off by his parents, like maybe his love of jazz music and that's why he came to New Orleans. Now granted, it wouldn't have been able to help the story, but I just felt that him being a spoiled brat didn't work for me. It was so easy for us to buy the spoiled brat learning their lesson and hard work will help them get what the want, it's just too simple for me. I also found the ending to be a bit too sad for the kids, I don't want to spoil anything though. However, despite a couple of flaws, I really did enjoy the movie over all and it's a great family movie. 9/10
In the past few years we've had almost a dozen vampire movies come out. Some good and some bad, but nothing that was outstanding and could bring the seriousness back into the vampire mythology. Then came out a magnificent masterpiece called Let the Right One In. I have to admit something which I'm sure I'll get a lot of flack for, I did see the remake Let Me In first. I had the opportunity to see Let Me In before the original and absolutely fell in love with it. I heard that the original was much better though and without even thinking about it, I bought Let the Right One In. I watched it over the weekend and am in total awe of this movie. The story of two awkward dark young souls who find solace in each other and in some way complete one another is just so darkly beautiful. Oskar, a 12-year-old boy, resides with his single mother in the countryside. Oskar's classmates regularly bully him, and he spends his evenings imagining revenge. One night, he meets Eli, who appears to be a pale girl of his age. Eli has recently moved into the next-door apartment to Oskar with an older man, Håkan. Eli initially informs Oskar that they cannot be friends. However, over time, they begin to form a close relationship, and the two exchanging Morse code messages through their wall. Håkan requests that Eli stop seeing Oskar. After questioning Oskar about a cut on his cheek, Eli learns from Oskar about his being bullied by schoolmates and encourages him to stand up for himself. Eli goes to Oskar's apartment and spends the night with him, during which time they agree to "go steady". Eli says, "I'm not a girl", but Oskar ignores it. Oskar shows Eli a private place he knows. Unaware that Eli is a vampire, Oskar suggests that they form a blood bond, and cuts his hand, asking Eli to do the same. Eli, thirsting for blood but not wanting to harm Oskar, laps up his spilt blood before running away. But now Oskar wonders if he should leave or protect Eli.The actors are just outstanding and I applaud our two young lead actors: Kåre Hedebrant and Lina Leandersson. They took on these difficult roles that many older actors could never grasp the depth that these two young adults gave the characters. Their chemistry is amazing and keep you guessing on what their relationship is about. Is Eli using Oskar for protection? Is Oskar using Eli to gain the self esteem that he needed to become stronger against his bullies? Maybe both, or maybe they do genuinely love each other. I found Eli to be a much stronger and more menacing character than in Let Me In where Abby played it more human, Eli was a monster who had no regard for human life. That's what I was missing as no matter what way you look at her, Eli is a vampire, a demon. The vampires in this film are not "pity me, we know not what we do" vampires. They are vampires trying to survive as if they did exist in the real world. They don't have a ton of money, they aren't gorgeous, they are not even that charming. Let the Right One In shows that being a vampire isn't romantic, it's rough, it's about survival.This is easily one of the best horror movies of all time and I'm grateful to the makers of this film and the writer of the book for bring scary back to vampires. This story is dramatic, dark, romantic and ultimately heart breaking when you think of the characters and their back stories. The cinematography is astounding, instead of darker rooms, they're bright and ironically alive with the color of red standing for what Eli needs to eat to live. The direction of the film was wonderful and consistent. I really did love the remake Let Me In, but something about Let the Right One In seemed to be more on top of the story and knew how to tell it perfectly. It's one of the best vampire films of the past decade and really set the bar high. Not since Interview with the Vampire have we had such a great movie about vampires where we are invited into their world and discover the excitement and pain of living forever.10/10
When I saw "Smart People" the trailer, I have to say that the first thought that came into my mind is "Sideways: Part 2". It had the same formula and characters. But I really wasn't as into Sideways as everyone else was, so I wasn't so excited to see this movie. But today I just decided to go ahead and give it a chance, I'm more grown up since I've seen Sideways, so why not just see what the film had to offer? I have to say while the movie does not excite me, I also see it doesn't excite too many people here on IMDb, it's a decent enough movie and worth the watch. The solid performances make the film likable and the story is interesting to watch, while it's not something that everyone can relate too, it's a good movie.Lawerance is a college professor who isn't the most popular guy on campus, he's pompous, arrogant, and puts himself higher above his students while ignoring their plea's for extra help on assignments. His son hates him, his daughter admires him and is quite the over achiever, and his adopted brother is a scam artist. But when Lawerance has an accident while jumping fence, he hits his head, and meets former student, Janet Hartigan. They start to date, his daughter, Vanessa, goes through her life realizing she's never really had fun, and his adopted brother, Chuck needs this family just as much as Lawerance needs it.Smart People, the major problem is that this was advertised as a comedy, it has some funny moments, but they're not what you would call laugh out loud. I'd say this is more of a drama with comedic elements, kind of like "Dan in Real Life", so Smart People didn't have "Smart Advertisement", but the movie is worth the watch. I would recommend it, it's an interesting film, not thrilling, so I would recommend probably waiting for the rental. But the cast pulls the movie together and makes it into a good drama.7/10
In the 2007 Oscars, Notes on a Scandal got a couple nods, I was a little interested in seeing this film. It looked really interesting, when I rented it, I saw Judi Dench as well as Cate Blanchett, both are incredible actresses that could never get enough credit. Well, I just watched Notes on a Scandal and I have to say that this film was incredibly dark, but so interesting to watch, I didn't wanna miss a second, I couldn't move while I was watching it. It had some even mentally horrific moments, moments you would never in a million years wish would happen to you in life.Barbara is a respected teacher, she is the battle ax of the school. Sheba comes to the school as a new teacher, Barbara and her become friends quickly, but Barbara discovers a dark secret, Sheba has been having an affair with one of her young students. Barbara keeps it a secret in return for Sheba's eternal friendship, Sheba does so, but realizes there is a price for Barbara's friendship, she has to be there for her every minute that Barbara wants her or she'll spill the secret and ruin Sheba's life.It was interesting too see the relationship between Barbara and Sheba, it was so scary to watch, but kept the movie in constant motion. I don't understand how Judi didn't get an Oscar nod for this film, she was so brilliant. Her and Cate together were just magnificent. I would highly recommend this film. It's a great drama, one of the best of 2006, it's a great thriller that will keep you going.8/10
Being a teenage girl is no easy task, believe me. In Jr. High I had a boyfriend and the first thing on young teenage minds is the curiosity if there is sex in the relationship, fun rumors began to spread and it was one of the worst times in my life. Funny enough, this isn't something that just started when I was a child, or my older sister or my mother or my grandmother. Girl's reputations have always been fragile since the beginning of time, even Shakespeare knew when he wrote Much Ado About Nothing. The Scarlet Letter challenged the double edged sword of how if a man sleeps with a woman, he's a pimp, a lady's man, or just simply "the Man". If a woman sleeps with a man, she doesn't get as kind treatment, we get the names "slut", "whore", or "tramp". No matter how much you know it's the truth that you're not those names, it hurts. But what if a girl actually took pride in those names and love the attention she got, even if it was too rough to handle? Emma Stone proving that she's leading lady material handles herself extremely well in this terrific re-imaging of The Scarlet Letter for teenagers that will prove to be more positive and every pre-adult lady should watch.Like most high school kids, Olive Penderghast just wants to be popular. So much so that when her best friend, Rhiannon, asks Olive how her weekend went, she decides to whip up a spicy white lie just to make things interesting. But that minor exaggeration begins to take on a life of its own when it reaches the ears of motor-mouth gossip Jesus freak Marianne, and in no time the entire student body is abuzz over unassuming Olive's unrepentant weekend of debauchery. Of course not a word of it is true, but that doesn't stop everyone in school from talking, and an amused Olive from deciding to go with the flow. Playing the role of the hussy to the hilt, the girl who used to be invisible begins dressing provocatively and turning heads in the hallways. The students aren't the only ones taking notice, either; Olive's English teacher, Mr. Griffith, is concerned that the kind of attention she's receiving isn't healthy for a developing girl, and his wife, the school counselor, is in full agreement. As Olive takes note of the parallels between her own situation and the plight of the Scarlet Letter heroine Hester Prynne, she realizes that she may be able to manipulate her newfound notoriety to give fellow classmate Brandon's popularity a much-needed shot in the arm. Olive never thought her little game could possibly have any negative effect on anyone but herself, but when loose lips start sinking ships all around her, she realizes that it's high time for the truth to come out.I think this is a very important film for girls because unfortunately this generation doesn't read as much as they should, plus as much as I loved the book The Scarlet Letter, it wouldn't appeal to everyone. We need a new update to grab someone's interest and I was really impressed with the way the cast and crew handled this film. Emma Stone has a lot of charisma, such maturity for a young lady and she carried herself so well. She even provides comic relief to give the drama little break. Same with Amanda Bynes, almost taking on the character played by Mandy Moore in Saved as the "holier than thou" bible thumper who feels that if you have sex before marriage, your soul is damned. Even Lisa Kudrow did a great job, as a high school counselor who puts Olive in a bad situation blaming Olive for her crime and you are just in shock and feel total sympathy for Olive when she realizes that her reputation is destroying her mentally. Easy A provides great education for both teens and adults(parents or soon to be parents) on how hard it can be to be a teenage girl. I wish that I had a film like this when I was 13 because I would have felt a lot better knowing that a lot of girls go through the same thing where you feel so hated for doing something that you didn't do. Easy A is easily one of the year's best films and I'm very happy with the way it was handled, very classy, sexy and funny, I would highly recommend it.8/10
One of my favorite genres is horror, but in the last couple decades it seems like horror has become a joke in the film industry with it's clichés, torture porn and jump scares. However there are still a few films that will stand out for years to come and one of those films that not only proved to be terrifying but a great movie as well is The Descent. It was the first film to ever make me scream in a movie theater, not to mention an embarrassing moment where screaming I didn't think and pull my shirt over my head to cover my eyesnot my proudest moment. But I wasn't alone, almost all horror fans agree that this was a fantastic movie and made it a huge success. Naturally Hollywood gets excited at success and wants to milk the moment for everything it's worth so a sequel was made. I wasn't sure what to expect, I was disappointed that it was a straight to DVD release first off. The theater captured the claustrophobia so well, being surrounded by people where we all felt trapped was a terrifying feeling, being at home, you have to turn off the lights in order to get the full effect. So with the sequel, that's exactly what I did and sadly almost fell asleep because this film almost tries to kill the first one with clichés.Sarah has escaped the cave with no memory of the events that occurred within it. She is taken to a hospital, where it is revealed some of the blood on her matches that of Juno. Sheriff Vaines demands that along with his deputy Rios, Sarah and three specialists, must go back into the cave to find the missing women. The team members are sent down an old mine shaft operated by Ed an old mysterious man. The group discovers the mutilated body of Rebecca, causing Sarah to have short flashbacks of the crawlers. Sarah has a longer flashback of the previous events, and in a nervous panic runs off; Greg and Elen and runs off deeper into the caves. Vaines pursues Sarah but eventually runs into a crawler and fires a shot that causes part of the cave to collapse, separating Cath from the rest of the group and trapping her within a rock choke. Elen, Dan and Greg arrive in a room full of bones where they find the video camera used by Holly in the first film. They watch the playback, which reveals the women were attacked by the cave dwelling 'crawlers'. Then, the three are attacked by a group of crawlers and separated finally realizing that they're going to have to fight their way out.I was really looking forward to this sequel, but sadly let down. Now with the positives, they do capture that feeling of claustrophobia very well again and the sets are amazing, however due to poor lighting, it's not shown off in the right way. It's nice to see two familiar faces with Sarah and Juno, especially getting that confrontation wondering who's guilt was more severe? We have Juno who not only led Sarah and their friends into this death cave but had an affair with Sarah's husband as well, Sarah left Juno injured to die in the cave and save herself. I also loved that they showed what the cave did to Juno, she's almost become like one of the "crawlers" herself and her fighting skills are so awesome to watch.Now with the bad, did we need to see Sarah? I preferred thinking that she lost herself in the cave and unfortunately lost the battle with the crawlers. Seeing the original ending where she's at peace with her daughter as the "crawlers" go in for the kill was somewhat comforting knowing that at least she would be in a happy state of mind thinking she's just with her family again. The new group that is co-ed is very clichéd and not that well developed. The sheriff is typical in being a jerk, the deputy is typical weak then turns strong woman, the three specialistschalk them up to dead meat and just bait for the gore factor. Why are we seeing so much of the creatures? The thing that made the first film so spectacular was that we wonder ourselves if Sarah is seeing the creatures in her mind, only getting a quick glimpse and then barely seeing them even in their attack mode was more terrifying. Here we're seeing every part of them, including where they go to the bathroom which was just sick and not needed. Sick does not equal scary. I would have preferred to see a new group go into the cave and then maybe see if Sarah did survive, maybe in Juno's place where she's more like one of the crawlers. I give the film points for effort, they did try to recapture the first movie but I would recommend just sticking to The Descent. This may not have been for money per say, but it definitely needed some major work with the story and whoever thinks what scary is needs to find another job because this could have been so much better.4/10
I think Ella Enchanted has to be one of my new favorite guilty pleasure's. I knew that this film wasn't all that, but for some reason, I really enjoyed this film. I think I just needed a fun clean comedy to just smile with. As cheesy as it was, this was just such a fun comedy to watch. It put a new twist on the fairy tale classics without over doing it. For the most party when they do the new songs, or things that are supposed to only work in today's ages, when they put it into movies that are supposed to take place in the medieval times, it doesn't work, but Ella Enchanted made it fun for the kids and the adults as well. Anne Hathaway is such a beauty and has such a presence on the silver screen, she as a perfect choice as Ella. She and the whole cast looked like they had the ultimate blast creating this movie.Ella from Frella is a young peasant girl who has a horrible curse on her, she has to do everything that is told of her, no exceptions, no objections, she has to do it. To make matters worse, her step sisters have found out about this curse and are taking horrible advantage of it. But when she meets the kingdom's heart throb, Prince Char, she tells him of how he can make the kingdom a more wonderful place and what to do as king, he's fascinated with her and they fall in love. But the king in place, Sir Edgar, will make sure that Ella will not have a word in what Char does, but also make sure that Char does not have a word in as well.Ella Enchanted is a wonderful film, I thought it was all in good fun and is enjoyable for the whole family. I especially loved Sir Edgar's demise, it was so simple, but so funny. I know I just might be a little easily amused, but sometimes you need to be to enjoy a movie. Ella Enchanted is a well made film and has a real fun story to it. Plus it just looks like everyone enjoyed making it, which adds a little more excitement to the film. I would highly recommend Ella Enchanted if you are looking for a few laughs, it's a cute story with a fun fairy tale twist.7/10
I was kinda looking forward to seeing Space Jam, ever have since I was a kid, but for some reason I never got the opportunity to see it. Well, my friend owned the movie and lent it to me, I love Looney Toons, they're just so cool and funny and I remember being a huge fan of the Chicago Bulls, so I was very excited to see this film. There is one thing I forgot, this is not 1996, the height of popularity for Michael and The Bulls and this movie seemed like a cheap publicity stunt.Michael is playing himself from the time where his father had died in that car accident and decided to join a baseball team, despite the fact that it's not the Sox represented in the film, which is the team he really played for. But the toons are invaded by aliens who want them for their amusement park in space. They challenge them to a basketball game, of course the toons suck, so they ask for Michael's help.Over all, Space Jam is just a cheap thrill for some, but for me it really wasn't all that. I was really disappointed and not to mention, keep Michael away from the big screen, because I hate to spill the beans, he's not that good of an actor. It's a pretty bad film, even if it is for kids.3/10
When I first rented Shrek a few years ago, I have to admit that I was a little disappointed, not that it wasn't a good movie, I just didn't think it was as big a deal as people were making it out to be. But I had also rented the second one and I couldn't stop laughing, one of the main reasons was the character Puss in Boots. A popular character in fairy tales, I loved their spin on him and with Antonio Banderas's voice, you just couldn't go wrong. However, Shrek 3 and 4 didn't hold up so well when they continued the stories. Even Puss seemed to be lacking interest. So naturally I was really nervous when I found out they were making a spin off with him as the star, Hollywood needs money and Puss would pull it in for them. Well I saw the movie today and I can honestly say that if Hollywood just wanted my money, I'm glad to hand it over because Puss in Boots is a very cute movie.Puss learns that two murderous outlaws, Jack and Jill have the magic beans he's been looking for half his life, which lead to a giant's castle holding valuable golden goose eggs. Puss then meets his old childhood friend Humpty Dumpty, who introduces another cat as Kitty Softpaws, one of the best cat thieves in the world. They ask him to join them in finding the beans, planting them, and getting the golden eggs which lie at the top. Puss refuses to work with Humpty due to a past betrayal that left him falsely accused for robbery, alienating him from his hometown and adoptive mother. After Humpty explains to Puss that he wants a second chance, Puss agrees to help him obtain the beans, making it clear that he is doing it for the town and his mother and to win back the respect he once had.I always loved Puss in Boots, but I didn't know that he could actually carry a movie. I wished he used his "cute look" more often, but I have to admit for the one they use during his jail scene was more than worth the wait and was way too funny. Kitty Softpaws was very nicely voiced by Selma, her character was a lot of fun and for an animated movie had great chemistry with Puss. Humpty Dumpty was the only character that wasn't that interesting to me, though his story was pretty good and I liked the bond that he and Puss shared. The animation was still great as usual, seeing it in 3D added the dimension and looked very nice, though the 3D is really not needed for this one.The story worked very well and I'm glad that Puss turned into a strong lead character. Even if the story is predictable, I love seeing the hero rise tale, it's always so uplifting. I think it's a great movie for the kids and adults. It doesn't insult the kid's intelligence by making the movie too cute and there are jokes that even the adults could get into like how Puss is more a lover than a fighter. Though I thought it was kind of odd when he winked at a human lady, bestiality? Moving on, I really did enjoy Puss in Boots, I would recommend it and cannot wait to buy it when it comes out. This was exactly what the Shrek series needed to give it some life and I hope there is a sequel. Hollywood may be greedy at times, but at least with this film they got it right in giving us a great story with the most ferocious smooth talking cat on the planet.7/10
OK, after hearing many horrible reviews for 10,000 BC, I have to say that I was really put off, this I was assuming was supposed to be the big kick off to the huge block busters. But I got to see it for free, and I always think that sometimes people just misjudge a film, even though my co-worker warned me, I still went for it and saw it. Thank God the movie ended when it did, I had the neuce around my neck by the end of this film. I mean, seriously, did the "writer" do any history homework?! First off, let's talk about appearances, the "cave men" have perfect teeth, have evolved well for what's supposed to be over 10,000 years ago, and remove the dirt, they're skin belongs in a Neutragina ad. Script? Was there one? I have no idea, the story made absolutely no sense and the ending was horrible. I don't want to give away what happens, but trust me, I think you'll be as confused as I was.I'm going to try my best to explain the plot to you, it's high school drama with cave men, so bare with me. De'Leh is a cave man with his tribe and has earned the title of "best warrior", he is allowed to have any woman, so he picks his childhood sweet heart, Evolet, but he later feels as if he didn't earn that right, so he "gives her up". She is kidnapped by another gang, oh, no! Whatever will he do? He gave her up, but he still digs her and never even got a kiss! So he goes after her with a few of his friends and find themselves fighting saber-tooth's, monstrous snow storms, a snake river, and even a god who got a bad nail job. Oh, let's hope he can save his girlfriend in time and all will be well.That's the Cliff's Notes version I can come up with. May I just say that I absolutely loved how the cave men spoke perfect English, seriously, I didn't realize that it was possible for them to speak that well in American English. This script was written for 12 year old's, seriously. Then they put in these awkward jokes, strange characters that are more laughable than serious, and a love story that would seriously be so non-existent if this was an accurate portrayal of history. I don't mind when they "bend" the truth for dramatic purposes, but this was the friggin' Seasamse Street version of cave men history. Stay away from this trash, it's just a waste of time, sadly, how many good movies could have been made with the budget they probably put onto this film? I'm seeing at least 7 already.1/10
Lakeview Terrace, what could have been a great thriller turned into a complete and total mess. I'm honestly surprised that this movie has the rating that it does, I'm trying not to insult anyone, just honestly, how could you take this seriously? It was so horribly written and I was actually looking forward to this film. My major problem was that the character development, there wasn't any, you go on this roller coaster ride where you think you might understand why Samuel L. Jackson's character is the way he is, but instead they go back into making you just brutally hate this guy. This is how beyond insane this movie is... Samuel L. Jackson goes from this stern, uptight guy to a bully, to a chainsaw maniac killer, to just plain psychotic, and honestly this guy is never given a solid reason why he turns this way, you're just left with five million questions and on of the worst endings I've ever seen.Chris and Lisa, an inter-racial couple, the nicest couple you will ever meet, the couple you would love to be friends with finally got a home of their own in what seems like a very nice neighborhood... well, that is until they meet Able, their black widowed neighbor who also happens to be a police officer... who also happens to not approve of their relationship. From the get go Able is pretty much a rabid dog who threatens Chris off the bat saying to leave the neighborhood and that he doesn't like them. He just cannot be reasoned with, when Chris and Lisa have an unexpected surprise they were not ready for that gives their marriage a shake, Able isn't helping when he goes as far as to threatened their lives.Honestly this is one of the worst films I have seen this fall season, it was beyond unrealistic and you have no compassion for some of the characters. Not to mention there is a constant rubbing in your face of the race issues, it's not just Samuel L. Jackson that doesn't approve of this relationship, all of the family and friends make some kind of disrespectful comment on it, I personally know 3 inter-racial couples and they don't receive that much hate or disapproval, it was hurtful on that level. I recommend you stay away from this movie, it's slow paced and the thrills are a let down. The story doesn't make much sense and I just found it to be pointless.2/10
I saw the trailer and the making of The Water Horse: Legend of the Deep, I don't know, something about this film just captured me. It just seemed like a really creative story and looked like a great family film. So, I decided to go ahead and check it out today and I have to say that it really did live up to my expectations, it was a cute film for the whole family to enjoy. It's a different version of Free Willy I think, lol, sounds crazy, I know, but I think you'll agree when you see it. It's definitely a tear jerker, but one of the better films I've seen in a little while in the theater. It was made very well and I'm surprised it hasn't gotten more notice, but like I said, I think I just saw something special in the story. We haven't had a Lochness monster movie, all we know is the infamous picture that has never been prove to be fake or real, and The Water Horse: Legend of the Deep tells us the story behind that picture.Agnus is a young and lonely boy in Scotland, his father who he was very close with has just gone off into WWII to fight. His home has just been taken over by English soldiers to fight off the German's. His family has lost something too, life and laughter. But when Agnus comes across what looks like a strange rock, is actually an egg left by an Water Horse, the rarest of all creatures, there can only be one in the world at a time. But he takes care of the baby who is water bound, while protecting him from his mom and the soldiers. But when the water horse, he named Crusoe, has grown too big, he and a family friend put him in the Lochness Lake where he is spotted and is now known as the infamous Lochness Monster.The Water Horse: Legend of the Deep is truly and honestly a good film. It has such a magical touch like The Secret Garden, where it's a serious story, but it's for the family. I thought it was very well made, the visual effects are very good and not over done, which was great, because obviously the Lochness monster is going to be CGI, but they made it look so real, and so lovable, lol, like I said, I did cry, it's a tear jerker. The characters are terrific, they really found terrific actors for the roles. Alex Etel does a beautiful break out performance as Angus and was so charming. I would highly recommend The Water Horse: Legend of the Deep, it's one of the best family films I have seen in a while.8/10
I wasn't really too interested in seeing The Reaping, but it looked like it might be worth a watch, so my friend and I saw it last night and both him and I agreed, it was kinda predictable and not that entertaining. Hilary Swank is an incredible actress and this seemed to be a step down for her. While it has some creepy moments, it wasn't anything to be thrilled over, it just could haven been better or more scary. The acting was alright, the story could have been more clever, but I do have to admit the effects were pretty cool, sometimes a little hokey, but over all they did a good job on the "destruction" of the Earth.Katherine is a scientist who used to be a Christian missionary, but when she lost her husband and child to a plague, she lost her faith as well. But when a town starts to witness the reaping, the end of the world through God's wrath, they blame it on a little girl, but Katherine is sure she can prove through science that it's nothing to worry about. But she starts to find out slowly how this may not just be something to forget about and the prophecy just might be true.It's not a recommendation for the theater, it's more of a rental, I'm just warning you that it's not a movie to get thrilled over and it's a disappointment considering all the advertisement that it got. Hilary made a mistake taking this film, it wasn't creepy and it doesn't really get your mind thinking. Seriously, just wait for the rental, you'll thank me later.6/10
Now the way I'm reading all these comments on IMDb, people are acting like this was absolutely the worst movie of all time. Honestly, I love you Beth Cooper is not going to be one of those high school movie classics by no mean, but I didn't feel like my time was wasted watching it. As predictable and silly as it was, I still think this was a decent enough movie that got a few good laughs. I mean, who hasn't wanted to go all out on their high school class and just mock them on the last day of school? Not to mention get the hottie of their dreams in the same night that has them just living life to it's fullest. I think that over all the film worked, there were certain things that were flawed in the movie like the script could have used a few touch up's here and there and the cast did seem a little off. Paul Rust, it's kind of disturbing that he not only looks but is 28 years old and then you have Hayden Panettiere who looks 12 years old, it was a little well, you get the idea. But still I think I love you Beth Cooper had it's moments enough to make you just sit back and forget reality for 95 minutes.When a geeky high-school valedictorian throws caution to the wind by expressing his love for a popular cheerleader during his graduation speech, life finally starts to get interfering for Denis Cooverman who may have brains to spare; it's guts that he lacks, or at least, he did until today. Stepping up to the podium to deliver an inspirational speech to his graduating class, Denis decides that the time has finally come to call out his classmates on their peccadilloes and declare his love for the prettiest girl in school, Beth Cooper. Much to Denis' surprise, Beth responds by accepting an invitation to a party at his house later that day. But Beth's meat head boyfriend Kevin is none-too-pleased that his high school prize is mingling with the biggest dweeb in school, and when Kevin shows up at his house and tears the place apart in a fit of rage Denis, his best friend Rich, Beth, and her friends Cammy and Treece all pile into Beth's car and flee for their lives. For four long years Denis sat silently behind Beth in class, pining for a way to make his love known. Now, over the course of one long night, Denis will finally get to know the girl of his dreams better than he ever thought possible. If he manages to survive until morning, it's sure to be the story of a lifetime.There were times that I absolutely laughed out loud like when Beth's psycho boyfriend kept going after Denis and just beating the heck out of him each time. Also seeing how Denis was reacting to all of Beth's "flaws" as a law breaking crazy party girl that he never imagined, only the sick fantasy as he has her picture blown up and taped over his bed. I think just the cast, the script and the characters needed work in order for this to be a great movie and that's why everyone is freaking out and saying how this is the most horrendous movie ever, either that or they're taking it too seriously. I think if you just let go and have a good time, you'll get a few laughs out of this movie, it's all in good fun and sometimes we need those silly high school flicks to either fantasize or bring us back to the good old days where getting a pimple at prom seems to be your scariest problem in the world. I love you Beth Cooper is worth the watch but more so wait for the rental vs. theater, it's just an average teen comedy.6/10
The Lost Boys, as cheesy as it sounds, is seriously one of my favorite movies, without a doubt my favorite vampire film, it's sexy, stylish, and really stands out against a lot of other vampire movies. Now it's been a famous cult classic for 21 years, people are still discovering it to this day, now there had been rumors for so many years about a sequel, that it was going to be Lost Girls, David and his gang would return, that the Frog Brothers go to Washinton, D.C. The list goes on and on, finally after 21 long years, we have a new sequel for the cult classic, Lost Boys: The Tribe. I couldn't resist, I automatically bought it curious and thinking that it might be worth the watch, oh, dear, how I want my twenty dollars back. I was incredibly disappointed, and frankly disturbed with some of the character's behavior as well as a very lame story.Chris and Nicole have moved to a new town with their aunt, after dealing with their parent's death, they're feeling down. Chris sees Shane, a once famous surfer who disappeared out of the spot light, he invites Chris to a party. Chris and Nicole go to the party, everything seems normal, until Nicole walks with Shane to his room and she drinks his blood out of a flask, she is now becoming a vampire. Chris seeks the help of our old friend, Edgar Frog, 150 pounds, about 5 foot 2, and still acts like Rambo times a thousand with the one liners. They try to help Nicole and destroy the surfing vampires before it's too late for her.Lost Boys: The Tribe is seriously a major let down considering this movie could have been so much more. Sadly, Sam makes a 2 minute appearance that was a huge let down, as well as Allen doesn't even make the final cut, only in the alternate ending. I wish the director wasn't reading "How to make a film for dummies" while making this movie, because he didn't have an ounce of respect that the first Lost Boys had. It doesn't have the attitude or class to hold a candle up to the first film. This isn't the worst sequels I've seen, over all on it's own, it is kind of worth the look, but after Edgar's 100th one liner, it was turning into an episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer. Fans of the first Lost Boys beware, I just had to learn the hard way... 20 dollars!!! I could've gotten groceries, I gave up a week's worth of food for this.3/10
I have to say that this for me has so far been the biggest shock movie of the year, after seeing the trailer to 300, it looked like such a pathetic excuse for computer animation. But my friends wanted to see it tonite and I figured why not? I couldn't believe my eyes and how excellent this movie was, I mean, visually it was actually stunning as well as the battle sequences were beyond crazy! So far, I would say that 300 is the best movie I have seen in the theater so far this year. It was so exciting to watch, every scene had one shock after the other and the battle sequences were so amazing to see, how the Spartans defended themselves, they were absolutely awesome! It's based on the Spartans, their lives and how they came to be what the legend that they are to this day. When they are threatened by the Persians that they will be turned into slaves, the Spartans decide to defend themselves along side with their king. Going against incredible odds of only 300 Spartans to thousands and thousands of Persians and horrible monsters, they pull together and become the strongest team of all! But the Persian "lord" will not give up until he claims victory over the team that is beating them down like they're nothing.It had great dark drama around a light humor that would give you a breathe of fresh air. The scene with the king looking up to see all the arrows coming towards him is one of the most amazing and unique scenes I have ever seen in cinema. I would Definitely recommend this movie for anyone to see, it is an incredible movie with intense battle sequences, terrific acting, beautiful settings, and a great story. I guarantee you will not be let down.10/10
When I saw the trailer for Despecible Me, I honestly couldn't wait to see this movie. Ever since I was a little girl, I watched animated movies and it wasn't so much the lead characters that I was interested in as it was the villains. They always seemed to have more life goals going on rather than the hero or princess and had better personalities, not to mention betters songs. So to make a movie about the villain as our leading character was just awesome. What makes them tick, what motivates them and do they ever feel the pressure of keeping up the competition to be feared? So we introduce Dreamwork's new piece: Despecible Me. While I thought the film was going to be great, it didn't live up to my expectations. Not saying that the movie was bad because it did have some really cute moments, that's all it turned out to be: cute. I wanted it to be a little more clever, but I suppose with all the animated films that come out each year, we're spoiled. With Toy Story 3 also being released this summer, I suppose I want more. Because the animation is nothing special and the story was a bit too predictable.In the middle of a suburban neighborhood sits a black house with a dead lawn, hidden deep beneath this home is the vast secret hideout of the super villain Gru and his army of mischievous little minions. He wants to pull the biggest heist in world history: stealing the moon. Gru tries to get a loan from the local Bank of Evil, where he meets Vector, and finds out that Vector stole an Egyptian Pyramid. Mr. Perkins, the bank president, refuses to give Gru a loan until he obtains the shrink ray for the plan. Vector promptly steals the shrink ray from him; Gru makes several attempts to get it back, but cannot get inside Vector's base. After seeing Margo, Edith, and Agnes, three girls who live at a local orphanage and are selling cookies door-to-door getting inside the base, he adopts them to get to the shrink ray. Gru begins to bond with the three girls and finds something that he's been missing in his heart for a long time.I did like this movie though, despite some flaws, it was still worth the watch. It's the first half of the movie that really slows it down, but it did pick up. One of my favorite moments of the film was when Gru tries to steal the shrink ray away from him, I could have honestly watched a movie of just that the way they handled that heist. Also one part that killed me was when Gru takes the little girls to the carnival and they can't win a game so Gru takes out his ray gun and just blasts the game away. The story is still very clever, Gru and the little girls were great to watch. Now one character that let me down was Vector, I loved the idea of Gru having competition with this guy, but Jason Segel was not the right voice. I would have preferred a more nerdy voice, maybe even a little Bill Gates, Jason's voice was too deep and didn't seem to fit. Also his father, who is the owner of the evil bank and denies Gru his loan was a little too basic and something that has been seen before. I would say this movie is a matinée price, because while not being a great movie, it was still very cute and worth the watch. I just wanted it to be a bit more clever, but like I said, I'm spoiled, I need Dreamworks to up the bar.6/10
I am getting so addicted to Harold and Kumar's crazy adventures, it's just pathetic, when I saw Harold and Kumar go to White Castle, I was hooked and bought the movie the next day. So obviously I was so excited to see Harold & Kumar Escape from Guantanamo Bay, saw it opening day and it's non stop laughs still! Now, I do hate gross humor, it's disgusting and unoriginal, yet, somehow, Harold and Kumar make it so unbelievably funny. They're back and this time they are taking the world by storm! Kal Penn and John Cho are such a great pair and made this sequel so much fun to watch. I agree, it does get offensive at times, but if you don't take this movie seriously, I think you'll be laughing too. Harold & Kumar Escape from Guantanamo Bay is one of the funniest movies I have seen this year in the theater.Harold and Kumar are on their way to Amsterdam to visit Harold's love, Maria, but of course, Kumar just can't wait until they get to Amsterdam, so he smokes on a plane, but everyone mistakes the bong for a bomb and Harold and Kumar get thrown into Guantanamo Bay. When they have the chance, they take it. When they finally arrive back in America, they got to meet Kumar's ex girlfriend's fiancée who could pull some strings to get their charges clear, but the way to Texas is a long road and they have to face some interesting obstacles.Harold & Kumar Escape from Guantanamo Bay was so much fun to watch, I loved this sequel, the cast looked like they had the ultimate blast making this film. The scenes that got huge laughs from me was when the FBI agent offers grape soda to a guy to get information about where Harold and Kumar were, and some guy in the back round says "How about some Kool Aid?!", also the scene with the return of the weed bag with Kumar and his ex girlfriend was so weird, that it was actually funny. If you loved Harold & Kumar go to White Castle, you'll love Harold & Kumar Escape from Guantanamo Bay, it's a comedy not to miss.8/10
One movie company I've had faith in these past few years to pull out the great films: Pixar. Wall-E, Up, Toy Story, Monsters, Inc., they've just kept them coming and some of these films are extremely ground breaking. Not just for animation but the story and love that they put behind it. This year they bring us Brave, a tale of a princess who wants to change her fate and follow her own path. Yeah, the Disney story that has been done to death, but this is Pixar, they're bound to do something different with it. So after watching the trailers, I wasn't sure what to make of the film but like I said, it's Pixar, I couldn't skip out on it. One thing I have to warn you is that if you've seen the trailer, this is complete opposite of what you would expect.Princess Merida, a free-spirited and adventurous teenager is informed by her mother that she is to be betrothed to one of her father's allied clans: Dingwall, Macintosh, or MacGuffin. Despite her mother's attempts to explain the necessity of the marriage her by telling her a legend of a power-hungry prince who broke off from his duty and caused the ruin of a kingdom, Merida is dissatisfied with the arranged marriage. The clans arrive with their first-born sons to compete in the Highland Games for Merida's hand, and the princess chooses archery as the main event. Entering the competition, Merida says that as the first-born of Clan DunBroch she is eligible to compete for her own hand, and later has a falling-out with Elinor. When Merida destroys a tapestry depicting her family and Elinor burns her bow, Merida flees to the forest. While there, the "Will O' The Wisps" lead her to the hut of an elderly witch who insists she is a wood carver. After some bargaining, the witch agrees to give Merida a spell, in the form of a cake, to change her mother.I won't give away what is the big fate changer, but it is something not incredibly original. Though give where credit is due, as usual the animation is very lovely and they captured the beautiful land of Scotland very well. The characters were just a little too typical, the only one that I really enjoyed was Fergus played by Billy Connolly and I really wished to see more of him in the film, he was funny, charming and seemed like a real father that a lot of kids have. Even Elinor played by Emma Thompson, the mother who is almost dubbed the bad guy for making her daughter go through all the customs of being a princess, but those were the times and how ladies were "supposed to act". I wanted to find out more of her character and I think they could've added more sympathy if they explained that she had to go through something similar growing up. The three little brothers are the typical comedic relief and do the job well. As for our main character, Merida, there's nothing too special about her honestly. She seems to be a brat most of the time not giving anything a chance or taking responsibility for anything, a typical teenager. How are we supposed to look up to her if she behaves this way? There are some plot points that are never explained well, like how to reverse the spell that Merida places on her mother. At first the witch says to recite these lines, but Merida never does that and it seems like she doesn't care about her mother's fate. Then there's apparently another way they could reverse the spell all with the power of love. Also the ending seemed to be kind of a cop out and too predictable. However, I would say that the kids for sure are going to enjoy this movie. For the adults, it's nothing special, worth the watch, but just don't expect Pixar greatness.7/10
This movie reminded me so much of The Great Outdoors with John Candy and Dan Aykrod, it's insane. I felt like Steve and Eugene just were probably watching that movie and thought how funny it would be if they could do a different version with their kids from Cheaper By The Dozen. If you've seen The Great Outdoors, I think you'll end up agreeing with me.Well, the Bakers are back and they are on vacation in the woods. They meet the Mortoges(spelling?), the kids love the kids, and the wives love each other as well, but there is one problem, Eugene and Steve don't really like each other and are having a hard time getting along on parental abilities. So they challenge each other to the this picnic type of race family thing a ma jigger. But the Baker's eldest daughter Nora is expecting and that just might help these two families call all ties together.Cheaper By The Dozen 2 was kinda a lame excuse for more money on this franchise, not to mention it wasn't needed. But I think over all that it's a decent family film, but on it's own, from an adult's point of view, it wasn't my cup of tea. Hopefully, the next Steve Martin flick I watch is better, because his later films are not thrilling me.5/10
Back in the 70's, we had a series of great horror films: a little real life terror with Texas Chainsaw Massacre, a little bit of Hellish terror with The Exorcist and a little underwater terror with the first blockbuster called Jaws. Jaws was so huge that it spawned merchandise, several sequels and actually scarred people out of the water. I'm sure the one's who knew what sharks are really like were just rolling their eyes at the reaction Jaws got and I think that's where Roger Corman(a God amongst Hollywood with the protégés he brought up) got the idea for Piranha. Despite not being a direct spoof of Jaws, you can tell that he was just having fun with the new genre of undersea monsters. Having some goofy lead characters with what is actually one of the most harmless most scary looking fish in the sea, you got Piranha.Two teenagers exploring at night come upon an apparently abandoned military installation. They take advantage of what appears to be a swimming pool to skinny dip. The teenagers are attacked by an unseen force and disappear under the water. A light activates in the main building and a silhouetted figure investigates the screams, but is too late to help. A determined but somewhat absent-minded insurance investigator, Maggie is dispatched to find the missing teenagers near Lost River Lake. She hires surly backwoods drunkard Paul Grogan to serve as her guide. They come upon the abandoned compound, which functioned as a fish hatchery prior to being militarized. They discover bizarre specimens in jars and indications of an occupant. Maggie locates the drainage switch for the outside pool and decides to empty it to search the bottom. The two find a skeleton in the filtration trap of the empty pool, and learn it was filled with salt water. They realize that the piranhas are heading for the town and they must stop the evil fish.The film has this often campy and fun feeling to it. Having the silly characters, clichés, gore and nudity is honestly just a lot of fun. This is an over looked horror film I think, it's just a good time. I remember this movie as a kid, my parents were skimming around the channels on Christmas and for some reason this movie was playing. We always joked that it was our new Christmas movie. I think I'll keep that tradition alive, after all, what isn't more about Christmas than killer piranhas? The attack scene at the lake is very gruesome and cool to watch with plenty of prop arms, legs and heads being chewed up with that creepy piranha chomping sound. I have to admit, for a fish that doesn't really attack humans, this made me a little creeped out by piranhas.Piranha is a good horror/comedy that works and should be given a chance. I'm not sure why it's over looked, but it's a fun movie. I do warn, it's campy and the effects are not that special. The acting isn't anything to brag about either. But this is a horror movie that calls out all the silly clichés. Maybe it was the people who were afraid of Jaws that took this film too much to heart that they were being goofed on with their reactions. Though I think it would be funny if they were actually terrified of this movie and had a new fish to fear. Anyways, Piranha is a fun horror movie and my new Christmas tradition in light of my family.7/10
I don't think I have received as many e-mails this year asking if I've seen a movie, this movie in particular called "Old Dogs". Now I saw the trailer when the film was first released and thought that it looked kind of funny, but then I saw the reviews and all the hatred came in for this movie. It was dubbed as one of the worst movies of the year, so I just stayed clear of it. But I got a couple of E-mails asking if I had seen the movie and if I hadn't to please see it and offer a review as well. So I finally watched it and was expecting the worst of the worst when it came to family films and I do have to say, I was really expecting something bad. This is not the worst film I have seen, in fact the way the critics reacted to this film was way over the top I would say. Is it something memorable; no. It's very predictable and silly I'll admit, but it's an alright family film that I honestly felt was harmless. Not the worst film of the year in my book, Old Dogs offers a few chuckles and two fun comedic actors who had great chemistry made this movie watchable.Dan and Charlie are best friends and co-owners of a successful sports marketing firm. Seven years prior, Dan, recently divorced, married Vicki after being whisked away by Charlie for a tropical vacation. The wedding, however, is short lived. Seven years later, Vicki resurfaces to tell Dan that their short marriage resulted in something he never suspected: twins Zach and Emily. Vicki, facing jail time for her work as an environmental activist, asks Dan to take care of the kids while she does her time. Thinking this might be his chance to get back with Vicki, Dan agrees, but only if Charlie will help him since neither have any experience taking care of kids. Of course, let the crazy wackiness ensue as these two old geezers try to take care of these little kids.I have to admit that again, even though it was over the top silly, I love Seth Green and the moment with him and the gorilla was very funny. For me, he stole the movie, he looked like he was having a good time with the role and put his all into it. Now the only complaint I have is that the same safe ending as most family films, we have to do over the top where the adult realizes that family is all and he has to find his way back to them, but he never does it in a phone call or just coming to their house, he does it in the weirdest way possible that I would assume scar the children in later years. But granted again, most kids haven't seen as many movies as me or other viewers who have watched these types of movies. So I try to keep that in mind while watching this movie. Plus again, I wish they would have cast different kids, it seems like we fall into the cliché where the children are more annoying vs. believable. While this movie has a bunch of clichés and silly moments, still I would say that it's a movie that the kids will love, more meant for them than the adults which is alright. The critics overreacted, I've seen much worse films and this one wasn't horrible.4/10
When I saw the trailer to Fred Claus, I was excited, this seemed like a fun Christmas movie that would have tons of good laughs and had a great plot. Now I waited 'till the weekend after this film opened, and I heard nothing but terrible reviews about it, so I was very scared to see it. But the way I looked at it was some people have different opinions, nothing to worry about. So I saw it tonite with my boyfriend, and I have to say that honestly, for what it was, this was just a fun Christmas movie. True, it's cheesy and the jokes are a little dumb at times, but it was all in good fun. I think honestly this is one of the better Christmas movies we've had in a while. It was definitely better than Deck the Halls, you have to admit. The story was still clever I think, I mean who could live up to Santa Claus status? Fred certainly had a hard time doing it.Fred Claus is the older brother of Santa Claus, quite frankly he's getting a bit tired of all the attention Nicholas(Santa) gets. It's tough being the brother of a saint. But when he gets into a bit of trouble with the cops, he asks Nic for help and Nic gives it to him, but Fred wants more money, Nic tells him alright, if he comes up to the North Pole to help him out with the work. Fred comes up and decides to shake things up in the North Pole with the elves, but it couldn't come at a worse time when Santa is being examined for his business and could possibly be shut down.Fred Claus was a cute holiday movie, like I said, it's nothing special, but I thought it was fun. You have got to admit, to those who saw the movie, that scene where Fred goes to the anger management and finds other celebrity brothers who are in the same situation was beyond hilarious! I couldn't stop laughing at Stephen Baldwin, I wonder what Alec thought if he saw this movie, lol. Fred Claus is a good holiday film and I think people are just taking it too seriously here on IMDb, just go and have fun. That's what Christmas movies are supposed to be.6/10
When I first saw the trailer for Step Brothers, all I could think was "Oh, great, Will Ferrell again?", I know this guy has a ton of fans, but I don't understand why, he can't really hold a movie together. But I got to see Step Brothers for free and I love John C. Reilly, so I decided to go ahead and just check it out with an open mind. Now there is no doubt, this movie is definitely a lot better than I expected, it's pretty funny, has some really good moments, but still once again, with the older men acting like children, not too original and a lot of the humor seems a little forced. Another comedy brought to us by the Apatow crew, naturally the comedy is over all decent, but please, for the love of God, can they stop with the friggin' penis jokes?! It's getting old, and so are Will Ferrell's balls, that's one thing in life I never did wanna see, and now it'll haunt my dreams forever.Dale and Brennan just became step brothers, one is 40 and one is 39 years old, but they both have the maturity of an eleven year old. They still live with their parents who have just pretty much crippled them into not growing up. But they hate each other, fight like crazy and destroy everything around them, so their parents finally tell them to get jobs and move out. But seeing how they're enjoying their care free life styles, so naturally they ruin their interviews, but what they don't know is that they are about to ruin their parent's marriage when they've finally discovered they're best friends.Now Step Brothers has some really funny moments, the dad played by Richard Jenkins is just hilarious, even though you wanna smack these parents since they've crippled their kids into not being grown adults, he delivers his lines well and is actually going crazy with the boy's behavior. Also how Dale and Brennan are wearing tuxedo's to their job interviews killed me, some of their scenes were just hilarious, like when they finally discovered they were best friends and what they had in common. Over all, I'd say this movie is worth the look, but I would recommend this more for a matinée, it's just an average comedy, no more or less.7/10
My mom and sister saw The Bucket List a couple days ago and told me that it was wonderful. So tonite my boyfriend and I decided to go ahead and see it, and I'm still in tears. The Bucket List unfortunately hit home so hard for me and I'm surprised at my mom and sister, since we have had quite a few family members that lost their battles with cancer. The Bucket List while is semi-uplifting, it just was almost torture. We have these two characters who we know are probably going to die and they're so lovable, we're setting us up for a painful story. I think that's the reason why, besides that it brought back so many painful memories, that I didn't really like this story. These two characters got to do so much that many would do anything to do, and I'm not sure how to take that.Edward Cole has it all he could possibly want in life, he has tons and tons of money, lots of beautiful women, and the world at his feet. But all that changes when he is diagnosed with cancer, he is roomed with another cancer patient, Carter Chambers. They are both told that they are lucky if they have a year to live, so they make a "bucket list", things they would like to do before they die and Edward makes it so. They travel the world, skydive, race cars, you name it. But they end up with something more powerful, a loving friendship that will last eternally.The Bucket List is incredibly made, I mean it's Rob Reiner, I will always give Rob the true credit he deserves. Including these amazing A-list actors, Jack Nicolson and Morgan Freeman who were just beautiful together. The movie has these incredibly gorgeous scenes as Carter and Edward are traveling the world, just amazing. But the film just had hit such a hard spot for me I think. It was a bit much to handle, same with my boyfriend who hasn't lost anyone to cancer, so while this was a charming movie about death and living life to it's fullest, we loose the characters that we want to live so much. The Bucket List is more for the older crowd I think, because it's a bit to handle for the younger crowd, I don't mean that as insulting, it's just too much and too painful to think about.8/10
OK, all I have to say is that if Tim Burton never did drugs before, I'd hate to see what "trippin'" for him is like because this is one of his darkest films ever. I'm a huge Burton fan, pretty much most of his films I very much enjoy, he always has a very unique edge to him that makes him stand out against other directors. So I wasn't sure what to expect from 9, I do know that this started out as just a animation short with no sound and it was very interesting. I'm sure that Burton was just as fascinated with it, so he decided to make it into a full length motion picture. This movie is definitely strong with it's PG-13, it's an adult story with it's dark atmosphere and story. But the thing that I loved about the movie was it's beautiful animation and the way the story is told.9, a little mechanical humanoid homonculus, awakes in the Scientist makeshift workshop soon after his creator's death. He then by a bleak chance comes across a band of "stitchpunks" similar to himself. 9 and the rest of the "stichpunks" then, in vengeance, must hunt down the remaining machines and their 'master'. Known as; The Fabrication Machine, who was also created by a Scientist that was also their creator. The Fabrication Machine, also called B.R.A.I.N., was the machine to create all other machines and caused the end of almost all life on Earth. 9 finds that machines created during the final days of humanity, are hunting them to take their soul. 9 accompanied by his comrades must face up to the machines and finally destroy them if they wish to survive.9 has some incredibly beautiful animation, very smooth and flawless, it's hauntingly beautiful with this background that reminds me of images that I looked at for my WWII history report. I agree on the fact that animation does not always have to be for children or a family, it can be for anyone and I think maybe that was the best way for the story to be told in this case. I just feel bad for the family that walked in on this thinking animation equals family movie time, because there is a lot of tragedy in the film. But I loved the characters, even though the short was silent which made it into gold, this was still a decent enough script with a strong message that was very true to our society and what we have become. I would recommend 9, it's a very haunting story that I'm sure any film fan will enjoy, just be warned that it is very dark, but it does pay off in the end.9/10
Back when I first saw the trailer for Wanted, I have to say that I was more puzzled and assumed the movie would just flop, instead I had friends who were just crazy about the movie. I also work at a movie theater, so I saw a lot of the audience walking out and going crazy over it. I had to see what all the rave was about, so my friend and I checked it out a couple days ago and this was one of the funnest action movies I have seen in a long time. One of the things I loved about this movie was despite how unrealistic it was, that was what had made it so much fun, we need a good action movie that you can just let go of reality and just enter this world where you can kick butt while doing the most incredible stunts. Now I'll admit I have never read the comics, this also seemed like the newer fight club, but I think this is one of the funnest movies I have seen this summer.Wesley Gibson has a crummy life: dead end job, a girlfriend who cheats on him with his best friend, and a father he never knew. But all that changes when he meets the girl of a life time, Fox. He meets Fox in a store and not only does she tell him that his father was an assassin who just was murdered, but she has a major shoot out with a man who is the killer of his dad. She takes Wesley to a factory where the assassins maned The Fraternity. Sloan, who is the leader, trains Wesley to be a top assassin and to kill his father's murderer. But at least that's what Wesley is led to believe into a shocking ending.I think Wanted does deliver all it promises, I know there are a lot of people who are upset that supposedly that this isn't faithful to the comic series, but I think that some just need to let go, because no matter what, you have to admit that this was just a wild ride. I'm not a huge fan of Angelina Jolie's, but dang, this girl just rocked and was so hard core, I wanted to be Fox. Morgan Freeman made such a great Sloan, he has a great skill of being a leader and someone that everyone admires; I also loved his line "Kill this..." well, it's a bad word that I can't say, you'll have to see the movie to know what I am talking about. But Wanted is worth your money and time, it's a fun action film that will leave you wanting more.8/10
OK, I admit it, I'm shallow, I didn't know about this film's existence until I saw Quarantine and went onto IMDb.com and saw all these complaints on how Rec was so much better. So I went onto youtube and found Rec just to see what it was like and the strange thing is, I saw Quarantine in the movie theater, I wasn't scared, I watched Rec on my computer and it scared me to death. I think the story was a little better explained in this version as well as it was just more intense. I feel weird saying that because Quarantine is the exact same movie just it's done in English, but for some weird reason this movie just scared me even more. I think I also liked the actors a little better in this movie because they seemed stronger and reacted more naturally. Rec is one of the scariest movies I have seen in a long time and I really wish I checked it out earlier than I did.Angela is a TV reporter who does a quick little night segment on firefighters and what their jobs are like. Everything starts pretty boring and it seems like they're not going to get a great story... until there is a disturbance call. They all go to this apartment building where everyone is downstairs complaining about noises coming from this apartment with an older woman, the fireman and police go up there to find the woman very disturbed and mumbling. All of a sudden the woman tries to attack them, the police and firemen along with Angela go downstairs to find out that they've been locked in, the police outside have quarantined the building. The woman viciously bites one of the firemen who turns into a rabid zombie who starts attacking the others. The virus is spreading and there's only so much time before they all descend into this scary nightmare.I would highly recommend Rec for any movie fan, this was just a fun movie to watch and one of the better horror films I've seen. Quarantine was just the American version with a few deleted scenes that are not in Rec, but I felt that Rec explained itself better. Why and how the virus came to be as well as where the mysterious tenant is and what he did. Like I said, I do feel silly, they're both pretty much the exact same movie just in different languages, but I just enjoyed this movie was just better. So if you do get the opportunity, I do highly recommend going on the net and looking up this movie, it'll give you the heebee geebee's... OK, that was lame.9/10
I have been looking forward to seeing Atonement for a while, I like a lot of different period pieces and this looked like a great one. Then the awards have been coming to it, unfortunately, it didn't come to my town for a while, until recently and my mom and I finally saw Atonement today and we both loved it. It has such a beautiful love story, lovely costumes, incredible scenery, and wonderful actors. Keira Knightly has just come such a long way these past few years and she's becoming a wonderful actress, she was the perfect choice for Cecille. James McAvoy, this is the first film I have seen him in, I know he's a rising star and from this movie I can see why, he has the perfect charm that lights up a screen. These two actors clicked so well together and were lovely. Romola Garai as the older Briony was the perfect choice as well, she brought almost a sense of sympathy for her character, an understanding. The entire cast brought this wonderful story to life.Briony is a thirteen year old girl in the 1930's, she has quite the imagination, she writes plays and stories. She also has an older sister, Cecille, who is more loved in some ways, especially by Briony's crush, Robbie. Robbie and Cecille fall in love, but when Robbie gives Briony the wrong letter to give to Cecille that has explicit sexual language, Cecille becomes more angry when she catches Robbie and Cecille together making love. Later that night, Briony sees her cousin being raped by a man and accuses Robbie of it, Robbie goes to prison and eventually fights in WWII. Robbie and Cecille to find each other again years later and promise each other to live happily ever after. But Robbie must fight in the war once again. Briony is now a WWII nurse and is living with the guilty conscience of accusing an innocent man of a hideous crime, she riped the love of her sister's life right out of her hands and now she must tell the truth, even if it is too late.Atonement is one of the best films of 2007. It was very interestingly made, it has a strange time sequence. But I think from what I know, is that Atonement is a long book, so they probably had to chop a lot of the story up into two hours. But don't worry, the story is easy to follow throughout the film. My mom and I couldn't get over the sets and the costumes, they were absolutely stunning and we're hoping the awards go to Atonement for best costume. Atonement is a beautiful story of love, sisterhood, friendship, betrayal, and imagination, it's a terrific film. It's a film not to be missed, I'm in a big bind now where I'm not sure what film to root for best picture, because Atonement is going to be a good classic in a few years.9/10
Ah, the sequel, usually having a lesser chance to be a great counterpoint to the original story I was expecting different from The Supremacy. However I have to admit that I was somewhat bored with this movie. Not to put the film down but for some reason this sequel didn't have as many exciting scenes as The Identity and a lot of the characters are not introduced or carried out as well, even though I have a feeling the cast and crew knew this was going to have another movie to continue Jason Bourne's story. So we continue the story as Jason Bourne is trying to live a normal life with his girlfriend Marie. You know the strange thing is I really thought that they used a different actress for Marie but I read that it's the same woman and I'm amazed unless my eyes were tricking me. Now I understand though why they needed the love story in the first film as it's the main focal point for Jason as now he wants revenge.Jason and his girlfriend Marie have been living in India for the past two years where Bourne struggles to recall the specifics of his first mission as a black ops agent. In Berlin, CIA Deputy Landy runs a "buy operation", spending $3 million to purchase evidence exposing the mole within the agency that stole $20 million in allocation money seven years prior. Before Landy's operative can complete the transaction, FSB agent, Kirill, infiltrates the building, plants a fingerprint to frame Bourne, kills Landy's operative and the seller of the information and makes off with the evidence and the $3 million. Kirill then reports back to Russian oil magnate Yuri Gretkov, who sends him to Goa to finish the frame-job by assassinating Bourne. Bourne spots Kirill coming and flees with Marie in a jeep. Kirill gives chase and shoots at the vehicle to kill Bourne but kills Marie instead, causing the jeep to run off a bridge and crash into the river below. Kirill leaves, believing Bourne to be dead, but Bourne survives the accident and departs for Italy to seek vengeance.I think that this was a good movie but like I said it just wasn't as exciting as The Identity, but then again it had a lot to live up too. I loved the addition of Landy with Joan Allen, she's a great actress and a very strong female lead. I love Julia Styles too and am very glad she returned but she never felt too strong of a character as Joan Allen's is and it's great to see that all of the government wants him dead. Plus we are learning more about Jason Bourne's life as well as his real name and that he is one of the most awesome assassins of all time. How cool would that be that you wake up without your memory only to find out that you're even more invincible than Chuck Norris? Well, actually not that cool but the invincible assassin that's tougher than Chuck Norris is pretty cool. So onto the next sequel as I've heard amazing things about that movie so I'm looking forward to it. This movie was alright but nothing special, so I'm hoping for the better. Like I said this didn't have as many great action scenes and the introduction of most of the characters as well as continuing their story just didn't work for me. But still I'm looking forward to continuing this trilogy.5/10
When my mom and I were at Blockbuster the other day, I noticed You Kill Me, I kinda remember it being released in the theater and hearing a good review from a friend of mine. So I rented it and watched it the other night, I didn't know what to expect, I didn't even really know what it was about. Now, we have such a trend in Hollywood, the hit-man comedies, there are quite a few, why not? Something so serious and scary, you can't help but just have fun with it. But for the most part, it's starting to get old and some movies are just trying to upstage the classics like The Whole Nine Yards and such, so You Kill Me is just nothing new, so it doesn't stand out. While it's worth the watch, it has some fun moments here and there, it's just that I expected something new or fresh, and the funny drunk hit-man isn't working for me.Frank is a hit man for his "family business", but when he sleeps right through the biggest hit, due to his drinking, he's messing up left and right, so his boss tells him get sober or get killed. So they send him to rehab away from home. There he gets a new job as a make up artist for corpses at a funeral home. He meets a new friend at rehab, Tom, who is Frank's sponsor as well. He also meets a new girl, Laurel, who becomes the unexpected love of his life, and helps him out with the biggest hit of his life.You Kill Me isn't a bad movie by any means, it is worth the look, but just trust me, it's nothing special. But both Kingsley and Leoni pull in good and solid performances that make the film worth watching. I don't know if their kissing exactly "sizzled" the screen, but it's all good, their last scenes together during the big hit were great and really pulled off well. So if you have the opportunity to see it, go ahead and watch it, it's a decent enough film with some fun laughs and good actors.6/10
Need for Speed is a great movie with a very enjoyable storyline and a very talented cast.The story is certainly nothing new or original,and the trailers don't make it seem like its going to be any different to the Fast and Furious movies but it is very enjoyable and dosen't feel like a carbon copy of previous car related films.What made this movie for me was its extremely confident cast,I am a huge fan of Aaron Paul,because of Breaking Bad of course,and I didn't think he would be able to deliver the same level of great acting as he does in Breaking Bad,but,while Tobey Marshall is certainly not Jesse Pinkman,he still delivers an outstanding performance,he clearly has a great movie career ahead of him and this is his first film since Breaking Bad finished,and there's no doubt he has more great performances ahead of him.I also really enjoyed Imogen Potts and Dominic Copper's performance,these are two actors I've heard of,but haven't seen in anything previously,but after seeing them in this I look forward to seeing them in more films.After he is let out of prison,Tobey Marshall sets out to seek revenge against the man who framed him for the death of his friend.
Seeing a trend here with horror movies, the hand held "documentary" style of film, it started with The Blair Witch, got bigger with Cloverfield and became huge with Paranormal Activity. The Last Exorcism goes with this current trend making this into a "documentary" style that had some extremely promising moments. I have to admit that the rating threw me off a little bit being PG-13. Isn't it odd how horror movies lately are PG-13 and comedies are Rated R? But after viewing The Last Exorcism I have to say that I was a little surprised that it was rated PG-13, it was a little bit intense at times with some blood that could be a bit much for a young teen. I loved the whole idea of this movie at first, being that the hero of our story actually isn't a man of faith and his faith is put to the test when he realizes that possession is real. But unfortunately the film lost it's consistency and turned into a completely different movie by the end. A lot of the ending just didn't make any sense and I have to say that I'm with most of the audience where I loved the beginning, the middle got a little shaky and then the ending just fell flat.Reverend Cotton Marcus is accustomed to performing exorcisms on "possessed" individuals, but his faith has waned after reading of an autistic child being killed during an exorcism, reminding him of his own disabled son. He comes to realize that he attributes the healing of his son to science, and not to Jesus Christ. He agrees to take part in a documentary designed to expose exorcism as a fraud, working with a film crew consisting of producer/director Iris and cameraman Daniel. At random, he chooses a plea letter from an individual seeking an exorcism leading him to Louis, a man who claims to have a possessed daughter named Nell. Prior to the exorcism, Marcus plants hidden speakers and electronic props so he can bamboozle the family into believing he is driving out a demon. That night, Nell mysteriously appears in Marcus' hotel room. In the morning, her father takes her home and chains her in her room for slicing her brother Caleb in the face. That night, Louis listens to an answering machine message from the hospital stating that Nell is pregnant. Marcus thinks Louis might have committed the act of incest, which he denies, insisting that Nell is a virgin and has been defiled by the demon possessing her. Now it's all a matter of if this is denial or a real possession that Cotton has convinced himself doesn't exist.There are some great scares though. Ashley Bell did a great job as Nell, I don't know how she did some of those poses as I was reading that most of her contortions were her own, yikes! She also had those creepy eyes that were perfect for the scene where randomly she's up on a tall dresser and just looking dead into the camera. Patrick Fabian did a good job as Cotton, he kept the movie rolling and really kept you interested in what was happening to this girl. One of the things I appreciated was that the story was kept somewhat a mystery and the audience was left to decide wither this girl was really possessed by a demon or if she was really sick and the people around her were doing this to her. Like I said, there are some really solid moments in this movie, the ending will just loose you, I don't want to spoil it, let's just put it in the way where it rips of Rosemary's Baby. It had better potential but was a let down.6/10
Oh, romantic comedies, I don't know why, but it seems like everyone is just being fooled into thinking these movies are original and funny. When I saw trailer for Fool's Gold, the first thing I thought was "Lemme sum up the movie for you..." and I did for my friends, they think I'm horrible for it, but I was right, everything that I said came true when I saw this movie. The reason why I saw it was because I got to see it for free and figured, just go ahead and give the movie a chance, sometimes I am a little too harsh on these films. So I went in with an open mind, nope, I was right, while this film was A LITTLE better than what I expected, it still was true to what I thought it was going to be. I was so blinded by everyone's tans, it was a bit insane, not to mention the horrible performances as well as cliché's.Ben and Tess are divorced, Tess is fed up with her husband spending all his time trying to find a treasure they've been searching for for years. But Ben is still very much in love with Tess and begs her to go for one last adventure with him, they go together with the help of Tess's boss, Nigel Honeycutt and his bimbo daughter, Gemma, to find the treasure. But of course there is always a villain who wants the treasure for evil purposes.The cliché's, Gemma, Tess's boss's daughter, she's a bimbo who acts like a total moron but is beautiful and sweet, blah blah blah and regains her friendship with her estranged dad. Ben and Tess, realistically, would they get back together? Let's say yes, but they'll be divorced again in a couple months. The script was horrible and the story just wasn't presented well and the actors were all wrong, I wouldn't recommend this film at all. Everyone is complaining about the Meet the Spartans directors and that those movies are "dumbing" down society, what about these lousy romantic comedies? Please, these movies are over done and are so over.2/10
I've been wanting to see American Gangster since the moment I saw the trailer, it's good to see a film that actually looks very intelligent and also has a terrific and talented cast. I saw the film today with my mom and we were both just blown away with American Gangster. It is without a doubt one of the year's best films and I guarantee you that this will be on the nomination buzz for the Oscars. First off, we have an original Mafia movie finally, something that hasn't really been touched, an African American who had power and was just put as high as an Italian Mofia boss. I didn't have an idea that someone like Frank Lucas could have the power he had, because of American Gangster, I now have a little more knowledge of history and the crimes in the 70's. Frank Lucas showed what one man with a little determination could rise quickly, but also have to suffer the severe consequences of his actions. Despite how the rise and fall story is used so often, the cast and crew made American Gangster into a real film.Frank Lucas is an African American man growing in the world of the 70's in America. Drugs are becoming a hot commodity, or at least the good and pure kind of drugs that you can only get from Vietnam. When he hears about this, he heads over there and makes a deal with the drug lord, he manages to bring in 2,000 kilos into the United States! He's now a popular customer there and in America, he's living the high life. He moves his family into a gorgeous mansion, he gets a beautiful Puerto Rican wife, and is respected by most of the community. He's never even suspected of anything, that is until his wife gives him a coat that stands out quite a bit in a crowd, and he is photographed by Detective Richie Roberts. Roberts is now on Lucas's case and has problems of his own, over half of his team is being bribed by drug dealers, and he's under the same pressure to just give into temptation of a bribe.American Gangster is the best Mofia movie this year, I promise you. It's a fantastic film and has just flawless performances. I wouldn't be surprised if Denzel Washington will be nominated for a best performance award. His performance as Frank was so brilliant, he was scary, yet smooth, unpredictable, yet charismatic. He couldn't have played it better. Russell is riding on the roller coaster of great performances this year, he's not as powerful as Denzel, but he stands great on his own in American Gangster. Ridley Scott, our director, has proved that he can handle the Mofia genre, he handled the film with utter perfection and this is his best film in years. American Gangster actually surpassed my expectations, I definitely do recommend this movie, it's a great one.10/10
I just saw The Hills Have Eyes II with my boyfriend last night and we were so excited because The Hills Have Eyes(2006) was actually a very decent remake. Not to mention that the trailer for this film looked so exciting and scary, but I'm warning you right now, I'm afraid to tell you that this is more gore than scare and that it turned into an over the top teen gore flick. It really had a lot of potential, because there were some parts that worked, especially how they kidnapped the women to be used for breeding, that sent chills down my spine; unfortunately they killed it with the guys be uber macho and the mutants who were the main characters this time.Ever since the family from the first film had their terrifying experience, the army got involved in trying to shut down Sector 16. Only a few know what is truly happening and why they are there, but unfortunately one troop finds out the hard way through loosing some of their team to horribly disfigured mutants. But the coronal warns them to protect the women since the mutants use them for breeding, but one of the girls wonders off and gets kidnapped and the team follows to save her, but end up getting into quite a bit of trouble themselves.It's not a horrible movie, I have seen incredibly worse sequels, it was just disappointing since the first one was such a great remake, you know? It has some scary moments, some silly and over the top one's, and some very odd moments that you'll genuinely get grossed out by. But this movie I think any horror fan could look at, but for a person looking for a film to see in the theater or for rental in the future, I'm not sure you'll get your kicks from The Hills Have Eyes II.5/10
Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull, the 19 year long awaited sequel, the big summer blockbuster is finally here! I was lucky enough to see the premiere tonite, my hopes were up, the audience was pumped, everyone was just excited, why wouldn't you be? This was the Indiana Jones to blow the trilogy out of the water. Unfortunately, I'm feeling a little empty, I am such a huge fan of the trilogy, movies that hold memories for me as well as excitement still to this day when I watch the Indiana Jones movies. Indiana is back, this film had a little bit of the old style that I was looking forward too, however, I feel like we were lied too. The makers of the film told us there would be no CGI unless it was needed like the old films, not only was there a lot of CGI, the older films had special effects, but they were real, this was a little too cartoonish at times. Not only that, but I felt like the 50's stereotype was being too rubbed in our faces: the jocks vs. greasers, the cold war fear, nuclear bomb testings, the Russians, and the aliens. I'm not going to lie, while the movie is flawed; this is still a fun action packed adventure film that is worth the full price ticket. I think the story was just more of a tribute rather than an actual movie on it's own.Indiana Jones is back, when the Russians have kidnapped him, Irina Spalko wants him to take her to find a crystal skull that is supposedly the skull of an alien. When they find it, the skull is to be returned to it's kingdom and supposedly they will hold all the power to the kingdom. Indiana manages to escape, meeting a young boy, Mutt, who tells him about Professor Oxley, who Indiana went to school with and how Mutt has heard about the skull and wants Indiana to find it with him. Together they set out to find it with the Russians on their tail, to meet with a familiar face, Marion(Raiders of the Lost Ark, you remember?), to find out another little secret about Mutt and Indiana.Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull, I do have positives about the film. We have our fun adventure film, rooting for the good guys, laughs, and excitement. Harrison Ford still has Indiana in his blood, no one could ever take his place, Shia made himself a worthy co-star and their chemistry worked very well. Marion was a nice touch, bringing back something to the fans of the trilogy. The only problem I have with this being more of a tribute is that if you watch the trilogy, while they are connected movies, if you were to watch The Temple of Doom first before Raiders, you'd get the movie without having to see the first one. Since this is a very long awaited sequel, I can see why they would want to please the fans, but there is a new generation who unfortunately might have not seen Raiders or The Last Crusade to understand this sequel on certain characters and lines. Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull is definitely worth your time, but as a fan, I can't help but feel that the ending made me question what the sequel's true motives were: money or for the fans? Judge for yourself.7/10
My friend and I were looking for a movie to see in the theater yesterday, everything I saw she didn't ad everything she saw I didn't, but one movie we didn't see was I Know Who Killed Me. We never heard of it, we actually for a minute didn't wanna see it because Lindsay Lohan was in it, but eventually we were just like "What the heck?". We needed a couple hours to kill and had free movie tickets that we got as a gift. So after seeing I Know Who Killed Me, I just was thinking of how much of a strange movie this was, but at the same time I didn't think it was all that bad, there were some things left unexplained and the ending was pretty lame, but I think over all, this was a thriller with good potential and just needed a little pick-me-up.Aubrey is a good girl who has strong potential to be a good writer and piano player, she has a good life, good home, loving parents, good friends, and a loving boyfriend. One night though, she is kidnapped and brutally tortured. Someone finds her on the road, but when Aubrey is picked up and taken to the hospital, she says she's not Aubrey, she's Dakota Moss, a stripper with a dirty life who has no idea what's going on, but she's not Aubrey. Is this a story that she's believing too much? Is this a possible side effect from being traumatized? Is this something from the drugs the killer was making her take? Or is she even right? Is it a possibility that she really isn't Aubrey? Everyone calls her crazy and just tries to make her believe that she is Aubrey, but Dakota searches for the truth and wants answers.Like I said, I Know Who Killed Me turned out to be a little surprise of a film, I liked it personally, there were things that were confusing, but over all I think the plot kept me guessing and going. Lindsay I would say did a good job, but the strip scenes at times were a little too much, just because we all know her personal life, so I think it would make us a little uncomfortable. There are some flaws to the film, but I wouldn't say to stay away, just keep your mind open and you might find yourself liking it.5/10
I don't know why, but when I was shopping for DVD's at Best Buy I found the triple feature for all the Psycho sequels, it was ten dollars, so I figured what the heck? So I bought it and I watched Psycho 2 last night, it actually was not as bad as I expected. It was an interesting plot and made the story work, I'm not going to say that it was un-necessary, yeah, Psycho did not need a sequel, but it wasn't a bad movie to watch. My only problem with the film, the blood, Hitchcock did something that made the first film scary, he left things to the imagination, the mind's power and thought is more powerful than seeing something and jumping so quickly to conclusion. Psycho 2 shows a lot more blood and gore. But Anthony Perkins performs well and makes Psycho 2 worth the watch.Norman Bates is back in business, he is released from the mental institution, but when Lila Loomis finds out about this, she freaks out and sends her daughter, Mary into undercover duty to try to get Norman back where he belongs. But something is odd, Norman seems actually like he could have a normal life, just everyone is playing tricks on him to where he's loosing his mind once again, or is he? Mary tries to keep a cool Norman so she's not the next Marian Craine.Psycho 2 is over all a decent sequel, I wouldn't mind watching it again actually. The story keeps your attention and there are some chilling moments. It was a little predictable I think, I had a feeling with Mary, that her story wouldn't end so well, but it's all good, you'll have to see what I mean. Psycho 2 is worth the watch if you loved the first Psycho, just like I said, I think they did mess up on showing too much blood and gore, Hitchcock got it right by leaving it to the imagination.5/10
Tttch, ttch, ttch, ha, ha, ha Jason Vorhees is back ttch ttch ttch ha ha ha, OK, I'll stop doing that. Well, back in the glorious decade that was known as the 1980's came out a series of slasher films, two of which have stood the test of time and given us Freddy Krueger and Jason Vorhees. The new millennium brought us Freddy vs. Jason, awesome movie, I recommend it, but we still needed a re-boot of the iconic monsters. So we have Friday the 13th, what baffles me is why the title is same of the 1980 film that was a great slumber party movie. This could have been a lot more better if it had worked as a sequel rather than a re-make. Now, don't get me wrong, I felt that this was actually a fun horror movie, the fans get what they want with the blood, gore and sex. But Jason seemed a little off to me, I think he went to rehab or something for his killing addiction, don't know if it was the actor or the director's vision, but this could have been a little bit better.On June 13, 1980, a young Jason Voorhees witnesses his mother being beheaded by a camp counselor who was trying to escape Mrs. Voorhees's murderous rampage around Camp Crystal Lake. 30 years later, a group of vacationing friends arrive at Crystal Lake on a camping trip. As Mike and Whitney explore the abandoned Crystal Lake camp, Jason begins to kill the rest of the group one-by-one. Jason also kills four of the friends, but instead of doing the same to Whitney he decides to kidnap her because she resembles his mother. Six weeks later, Trent, along with his girlfriend Jenna, and their friends Chewie, Chelsea, Nolan, Bree and Lawrence arrive at Trent's summer cabin, which sits on Crystal Lake, unaware of the events that occurred a few weeks prior. Also in town is Clay, who has come to Crystal Lake searching for his sister Whitney. Clay eventually makes his way to Trent's cabin, where Jenna agrees to help him look for his sister on the other side of the lake, much to Trent's dismay who's jealous of Clay. As Clay and Jenna search for clues to Whitney's disappearance, Jason does what he does best baking cookies oh, wait, I got that messed up.With the recent roll up's of remakes like Texas Chainsaw Massacre and Halloween, coming soon Nightmare on Elm Street, is Hollywood literally that much out of ideas? Like I said before, I think this would have worked better as a sequel, because not having the original creators on set makes the film feel like a bunch of frat guys who just thought "Hey, wouldn't it be cool to make our own Jason movie?". Sometimes we do have a winner with the remakes like Dawn of the Dead or even Texas Chainsaw Massacre had it's moments as well, unfortunately Friday the 13th didn't do anything to stand out against the other movies. I do recommend it for a night rental, it's always cool to see Jason and how awesome his murders are kudos on the girl in the sleeping bag getting set on fire, what a burn! Ha ha ha ha ha! I made a funny, ha ha ha, eh, uh, I try, give me some credit.7/10
So of course I saw Clash of the Titans when I was a little girl, I absolutely adored that movie. It was one of my favorite adventures, it was exciting and just a blast to watch. I haven't watched the movie in many years though, but I had seen the trailer for the remake. I was intrigued, it's not a bad idea to reintroduce the story to a new generation. I didn't even realize how much Titans was considered to be a classic, the director expressed in an interview his love for the story. So I was hearing just alright reviews, but still I decided to see this movie on Easter, I just had to discover for myself wither it would be good or not. So first off, I did see it in the 3D format, which I'm not really getting into, 3D can be a bit too much on the eyes. I understand it's dimension, but I think this is more of a fade vs. making movies just look pretty. I think I would have been just as satisfied watching it in the 2D format, so that's a skip if you want to see this in the theater. Unfortunately though, this movie does go a little Star Wars/Lord of the Rings for my taste and doesn't hold the same charm as the original did for me.A coffin is seen drifting through the sea before it is rescued by a fisherman, Spyros. When Spyros opens it, he discovers the baby Perseus and his mother, Danaë, inside and raises the boy as his own. Perseus, half god half man as Zeus's son, does not know who his real father and mother are. Years later, Perseus and his family are fishing when they witness a group of soldiers destroying a massive statue of Zeus, effectively declaring war on the gods. Immediately following the fall of the statue, Hades rises from the ocean, killing most of the soldiers and then destroying the boat Perseus and his family are on. The surviving soldiers find Perseus and take him back to Argos. When King Cepheus and Queen Cassiopeia compare themselves to the gods and compare the beauty of their daughter, Andromeda, to that of Aphrodite, Hades appears again, killing the remaining soldiers. . Hades kills the queen, and demands that Argos further pay for its insolence and vanity; in 10 days, the Kraken will be released, and if the princess Andromeda is not sacrificed, then Argos will be destroyed. Perseus and a group of soldiers go on a journey to get Medusa's head that will destroy the Kraken by turning it into stone.While I thought the effects were pretty good, there is a scorpion fight scene that was just incredible to watch, the effects didn't make the movie great. The Kraken was a great visual, but the scene fell so flat that it didn't have the splash that the scene should have had. Also one of the most haunting scenes from the original I remember was the Medusa fight, it was one of the most terrifying moments I had ever seen in my childhood. The remake didn't have the same effect as the original, I don't know if it was the set up or the actual Medusa that failed, but the whole scene could have been so much more. Also with Sam Worthington as our lead, I do like this guy over all, but I'm not liking him play the same character over and over again as he has with Terminator Salvation and Avatar. He needs to be a little more diverse. But one thing I did really enjoy with this movie besides some of the good effects was Ralph Fiennes and Liam Neeson, they look like brothers, they act like brothers as well as they seem like the only one's that took the story seriously and they should have had more screen time. Over all I would say that this movie is a matinée, because it's a special theater experience, UNLESS, you have a blu-ray player, then you can wait for the rental.6/10
My friends and I have a little tradition every Wednesday night, we watch a movie either in the theater or we rent something and this time my friend rented The Grudge 2, I found out that he never saw the first, so maybe that's why. Because the first Grudge was one of the worst and most boring movies I have ever seen. But I decided to be nice and sit down through the movie and wipe a clean slate for this film, still, it did me no good, because it seems like the plot got only worse along with the crummy actors.Basically, Karen is now in a hospital and has been accused of setting the fire to the house that was from the first film, so her mom sends her sister, Aubrey, to Japan to bring Karen back home to America. But Aubrey finds herself into something deeper when Karen dies from an apparent "suicide", but when a journalist tells Aubrey that the house is cursed, they decide to play detective while others all around the world are being haunted as well.The acting was pretty bad and the story could have been something more but it didn't work. I normally say for most movies that you have to judge for yourself, but believe me, you might want to stick by the user's comments. Not to mention that if you were not into the first film, you'll definitely not enjoy this one. It just didn't work with the teenagers and I'm sure Japan is already ticked off at us enough for making these movies.1/10
When I was a little girl, one of the movies my parents couldn't get enough of was the Conan movies. I remember watching them a bit with my parents, but I think I got sick of it. I haven't seen Conan or the sequel since I was 6 or 7 years old. I'm so strange, the other day I wasn't feeling so well, so I decided to stay in and just randomly decided to watch the Conan movies. I was a bit nervous since I hated watching it 5 million times with my parents, I was thinking I might have the same reaction, but luckily enough, I actually had a good time watching Conan. How could you not love Arnold Schwarzenegger? Not to mention this is his first major movie and to see him in his prime was awesome. Conan has everything that I loved about the old 1980's action/adventure movies: cheesy CGI effects, fun reactions from the actors, great stunts and a story of thrills. Conan witnesses the destruction of his village at the hand of Vanir warlord Thulsa Doom. Conan's father valiantly fights the bandits, but Thorgrim kills him with his pack of trained dogs and then kills Conan's mother. Sold into slavery along with the other children from his village, Conan is forced with others to push a human-powered mill. Reaching adulthood as the sole survivor, he has become broad and strong. After a period of enduring the elements, a lone horseman appears. Conan, it appears, is purchased on the premise that size alone is good enough to qualify him to fight as a gladiator. While still a slave, Conan studies language and writing including poetry and philosophy. He eventually however is set free by his master and soon discovers a sword from an ancient Atlantean king in a tomb. Conan thus dedicates his life to vengeance.Conan the Barbarian is a fun movie and really cheered my night up. I loved watching all the fight scenes, they were absolutely incredible, Arnold whipped that sword around as if it were a feather and was so graceful with it. James Earl Jones, another addition that you cannot go wrong with, he's the bad guy, it's like his calling card, he's perfect and has such a powerful presence on screen. The sets and direction also are done very well, John Milius did a great job and knew what the vision of this movie should have been like. I've heard before that these movies never did the stories of Conan any justice, but I haven't read them so I can't judge. Even so, I think people should give these movies a fair chance, if anything Conan the Barbarian is a fun action/adventure movie and takes us out of the world where dressing up in barbarian clothing is not just a sexual fetish but can be a good movie. 9/10
Ah, my next on list of big 50's sci fi films, Them! This is a film that my parents were crazy about it and always wanted me to watch this classic. But of course when you're a kid, naturally you don't find many black and white films that appealing. I always thought this was going to be a lame film, but like I said, I'm on a goal to see the big sci fi films of the 1950's and I'm glad that I finally gave this fine film a chance. Them actually scared me, as cheesy as the effects were, if you watch this film in the dark, it has creepy elements to it. Not to mention, it was cool to see a younger Lenord Nemoy on screen, to think that he was a struggling actor too who has a very small part in this film. Them has a great story and is one of the best scary bug films you'll ever see.After several people in the New Mexico desert wind up missing or dead, including an F.B.I. agent and most of his family, police Sgt. Ben Peterson teams up with F.B.I. agent Bob Graham to find out what's causing the strange occurrences. They find send a strange print found at one of the crime scenes and it is sent to the Department of Agriculture. Doctor Harold Medford and his daughter Doctor Patricia Medford arrive and ask to be taken to the scene of some of the disappearances. When they get there they are shocked to find gigantic ants, whose mutations were caused by the first atomic bomb explosion nine years earlier. They manage to destroy the nest of ants, but not before two winged queen ants and a couple of drones have hatched and escaped the nest. Now it is a race against time to find the two queen ants before they can establish more nests and hatch more queens.I believe that Them is a film to be watched by any film lover, this is a true classic in it's own right. I'm really falling in love with these old sci-fi films, the story, the effects, the history, the actors, they're a lot of fun to watch. Them is now in my top fav's, the scariest scene was without a doubt when you see those little boys trapped in the cave with the queen ants, I couldn't imagine the fear they were experiencing. This was a very fun film to watch and I'm looking forward to my next sci fi film, but Them is going to be tough to beat on the scares.8/10
I'll admit up front, I'm not a huge chick flick fan, there are only pretty much a dozen that I like, I normally love the romantic comedies, despite how cheesy they can be. Well, a friend told me while I was renting this on the phone that it was a cheesy movie but I figured, some like sausage and some like pepperoni per say, some movies really do depend on your view of the film. But this was a chick flick that was majorly rubbed in my face and could be at times very predictable.Kathleen is a newly divorced woman who has been cheated on, she goes to Tuscany, Italy and buys a house that is falling apart. She gets immigrants to help her restore it while she works on a new novel hoping to achieve a happy new life. She meets an Italian charmer, who of course I could tell from the line "I could swim in your eyes" that he was... well, you'll get the idea. She goes through some rough times, but pulls herself together when her pregnant friend, Patti moves in with her.Under the Tucsan Sun is a very over the top chick flick that I wasn't at all impressed with, the only thing I'm giving points on that it had some very beautiful pictures in it and it had nice touches to it. But I really do think that Dianne is an over rated actress, again, I know I am going to get bashed for that, but I want to be honest. For women who only enjoy chick flicks, be my guest, but if you're the average film fanatic, I'm not sure if you'll be too impressed by it.3/10
I had heard a little bit about The Stepford Wives recently on a TV show, they showed little clips of the movie and I knew I had to see it. I saw the sad thing that they called the remake of the Stepford Wives, wasn't impressed and I think part of that made me want to turn away from the story, but I found the rental and watched it the other day, this movie just creeped me out. I couldn't believe how scary it was, I know that it may seem a bit tame to others, especially in today's world, but I think it was the whole concept and the ending that really got to me. Just think about it, men wanting a "perfect" wife so badly that they'd kill them and replace them with robots? Just thinking about the subject makes you think and the film makes a clever and well acted cult classic thriller.Joanna and Walter have just moved to Stepford, everything seems just so perfect, a little too perfect, Walter has a great new job with tons of friends, Joanna has made some friends too. Some of the women are normal and are in the women's lib movement, some are just a little to Mrs. Beaver, doing everything that a husband could want: cook, clean, make love constantly, and just keep her mouth shut at certain times. But when things get a little too suspicious when one of Joanna's friends who was with her on the women's movement has become all "Stepford", she starts to wonder what's really going on.The Stepford Wives is definitely a classic in it's own right and really is a conversation movie. I admit that it's lost a little edge within time, but if you just think about the subject, it really is disturbing, Katherine Ross pulls in a terrific performance, especially in the "I bleed" scene, how scary that must have been for her character, you'll see what I mean. I would recommend this for movie buffs or if you're looking for a creepy thriller to watch, this is a fun classic and is always the perfect joke for our "Stepford" wives of today.7/10
I was renting movies tonite and I came across Secret Window, I remember the trailers that I saw a few years ago for it, and figured that it's Johnny Depp and Stephen King, what a winning combo, right? Johnny takes on the most eccentric roles and really turns them into an incredible character. So my mom and I watched it tonite and she absolutely loved it, I however was puzzled, it seemed like just a typical thriller that has to have the big twister ending and also that it just seemed like a strange mixture of Stephen King's old masterpieces like The Shining and Misery. I don't know, it was clever in some moments and also very creepy in some scenes, but I just didn't like how it ended. This was in some irony, Stephen King's own story with himself on plagiarism, he copied off his own stories.Mort Rainey is a pretty famous and successful writer, but he is going through a rough divorce with his cheating wife. But things get even more rough for him when he meets a man, Shooter, who is claiming he has stolen his story, Shooter makes it very clear that he's not going away and he'll do anything to get his way and make a point with Mort. But Mort realizes that his mind is going crazy and that Shooter might be more than meets the eye with his stories and needs to finish some business with his ex-wife and her lover.Secret Window is a good film in general, for a thriller, it's decent. Like I said, I'm just getting a little sick of these endings where it's the "Oh, my God! I never saw that coming", and sadly when you've seen so many of these films, you can predict what will happen next. Johnny Depp though, he is still a great actor. He did a good job on Mort and made the film very watchable, he is surprisingly a very good bad guy, since he's normally the hero or "anti-hero" in films, it was nice to see a change. Secret Window has thrilling moments here and there, it's worth a look, but I wasn't too excited over it.6/10
I wasn't really too interested in seeing The Last Kiss, but I heard so many good things about it, especially from my best friend, so I decided to give the movie a shot. Even though it still felt like an American version of Love Actually, because it gave us a view of what different relationships are like with a little twist of how men, no matter how good their intentions are to stay with the same woman, there is always a falter. The Last Kiss is proof that there is always a grey area in relationships no matter how strong they may seem.We have 5 men, one is in a relationship with a woman who is carrying his child, but he meets another young college girl at wedding and discusses his fear of the relationship. One can't get enough loving and refuses to to commit. One is in a marriage with a new born baby and is feeling the hard core pressure from his wife to become a good father. One can't get over his ex and refuses to give up on her, but finally decides to do some traveling to see what's out there. And finally we have our long term married man who has taken his wife for granted.The Last Kiss turned out to be over all a good surprise and I think most adults could relate to in one way or another. Although the ending left us with some confusion, I think we could all interpret what happened, so it's all good. But I would recommend The Last Kiss for all movie lovers or even if you are just looking for a good movie, because let's face it, we do sometimes need a mirror to see what's going on in our lives.7/10
When I saw the trailer for Waitress earlier this year, it looked like the big yawn or something that would be more average. Especially since we have not seen Kerri Russell for a while. But I saw this movie at Hollywood Video and decided to go ahead and check it out and I watched this movie tonite and I actually enjoyed Waitress very much. I think because it was one of the most realistic stories I have seen in a while, it wasn't over or under done. Kerri Russell did an absolute terrific job of her character, Jenna, she was truly a tragic, yet uplifting character. She was so beautiful and charming, she brought Jenna to life, I know this is saying a bit much, but I wouldn't give it a surprise look if I saw her for a nomination during Oscar time. Waitress is one of the year's most uplifting stories of the year.Jenna is a waitress in a small town where her pies are just the envy of everyone. She wants to enter a pie contest to win a twenty five thousand dollar prize and it seems promising, but one problem, she's now pregnant, and her husband, Earl is such a scum bag and treats her like dirt. But when the new hot doctor is in town who is taking care of her pregnancy, they start an affair. Things seem like they would be be getting better, but Jenna doesn't know how to be happy once again, until she realize the little joy that is growing inside her.Waitress is a terrific film, I highly recommend it. It was very well written and has wonderful performances. Kerri Russell was lovely and reminds me of those old time actresses. I think my favorite part was when she has her first kiss with the doctor, just it was so random, it was passionate, yet funny, also steamy. She and Nathan Fillinian played the chemistry so perfectly, especially in their kitchen scene, it was beautiful. Waitress was a charming comedy and I wouldn't mind seeing it again, I was surprised and definitely glad that I gave this film a chance.8/10
I found Sweet Home Alabama to be a very sweet romantic comedy, Reese Witherspoon was just so adorable in this film. I wanted to see Sweet Home Alabama because I love Reese and remember hearing so much about it when it was released. So, of course, I figured now would be a good time to rent it and find out what this movie was about. Over all, I'd say it was a bit over rated(everyone I knew who saw this movie loved it), but still a watchable romantic comedy.Sweet Home Alabama is about a girl, Melanie, she is about to marry the mayor of New York city's son. But she has a bit of a bumpy past in the south where her family and old friends are, she's still married to Jake, her high school sweetheart. Without trying to bring up her embarrassing past to her fiancée, she has to get things done and settled with everyone, including her husband. But she slowly discovers how much she missed her true home and how much of a wonderful guy that Jake is.A bit predictable and silly, but over all I would recommend Sweet Home Alabama for a lite comedy that most could enjoy. Like I said, it's not that big of a deal, but I love Reese Witherspoon personally, so you might disagree, but then again, how will you know if you don't give the movie a shot? So, sit back and just have fun! 6/10
And that's incredibly sad after seeing Pink Flamingo's last year, I mean The Heartbreak Kid was just one of the most stupid films I have seen. There was absolutely nothing funny about this movie and I don't understand it's rating. The Farally brothers have lost their gift, because I have no idea what they were smoking when they came up with this film and thought it would be a good idea. Ben Stiller also, I mean, his character was absolutely the biggest jerk I have ever seen on film and was in no way likable. I think that was the main problem I was having with this movie was due to the fact that I think Ben Stiller's character was supposed to be likable, but there was no saving him from the way this script was written, because he is in no way justifiable. The Heartbreak Kid was definitely the worst film of 2007.Eddie is starting to feel a bit alone in the world filled with love sick couples. But that all changes when he meets a beautiful girl, Lila, and after 6 weeks of dating her, she needs to go to a different country for a job, but Eddie is feeling so good that with the pressure from his dad and friend, he marries her. They go on their honeymoon and Eddie finds out that Lila have some disturbing traits to her personality. But his vacation quickly changes when he meets Miranda who is on a family reunion, and he falls in love with her. But of course, since he's still "technically" married, it gets hard to tell Miranda.The Heartbreak Kid has some of the most uncomfortable nudity I've ever seen. I have no problem with nudity in films depending on the context, but this script was so awful, like how Lila loved being a freak in bed. OK, I get it after the first scene, but they continue this weird joke for a few more scenes, not to mention her jellyfish scene with Ben was beyond gross. This was just an unnecessary film in every aspect, the script needs at least some major work because the characters are awful and so is the story. Please stay away from this junk, it's not worth your time.1/10
Since 1918 there has been a paranoid fear of a plague spreading around the world once again. It's 2011, how would things be handled? If you're smart, you know how most of the world would handle it, most people would turn into animals while the rich would benefit off the death of others. Movies have been created the past few decades on plagues hitting again, The Stand (even if it's a miniseries), 28 Days Later, Dawn of the Dead, etc. It's terrifying to think of, hard to grasp even. Contagion was made on a more realistic documentary type of movie on "what if" factors. With an all star cast, we find out how fear can spread faster than a virus and what would life be like if everything and everyone we touched could kill us.Beth goes to Hong Kong on a business trip to participate in a groundbreaking ceremony for a new factory. While in Hong Kong, Beth visits a casino and plays a dice game with colleagues from the plant. Once the ceremony is complete, Beth flies back to her husband, Mitch. Later that night Beth collapses on the floor in what appears to be a seizure. Beth is rushed to a hospital for treatment and passes to an unknown cause. Dr. Cheever of the Centers for Disease Control leads an investigation into disease related deaths, all exhibiting similar symptoms. As the contagion spreads, hearings are set up to discuss possible solutions, airports within the state are shut down, and the national guard is deployed to Minneapolis to cordon off the city, set up treatment centers and provide general order. But as the disease proceeds to continue taking millions of lives, the question is not only how to be cured but to stop the contagion from spreading.Not to sound like a conspiracy theorist or anything, but this movie makes me wonder if it's either trying to prepare us for something or spread propaganda. This weekend, I'm writing this review on September 9, 2011, is the 10 year anniversary of 9/11. My boyfriend and I were watching a documentary the other day and I told him how since that day, we have lived in a paranoid society of fear, somewhat good on the fact that we know we can't be ignorant forever otherwise we'll get bit hard or is it bad; where everything has been so horrible to the point where we can't enjoy anything. Germ-X sales are way high because people are so terrified of catching something. In a society where we are cleaner than ever but we are so panicked to catch a disease of some sort and I wonder because of our media if this causes the problem.I digress onto the movie. The cast is very exceptional, the main reason I went to see this was to see Kate Winslet, my favorite actress. The cast is an all star, though in some ways it could be a bit distracting as Matt Damon looked a little like Mark Wahlberg to me for some reason. But each actor did a great job holding their own and each one having a little sympathy as you hoped for the best in the film. Although I wanted to throw a fit for Gwenth Paltrow's character spreading the disease to Chicago first, thank you very much! The style of the movie is done very well. I have only 2 complaints, one being that the film could have been a little more shocking, since we are thrown right into the disease spreading, it's hard to latch onto any character because we know there's a chance of them dying. The tension could have been a little more there. The ending was also a little off, thought this is a mild complaint as I would see this like how it fizzled out just like if this was for real, if the human race had fizzled out. But it left me a little unsatisfied; I wanted more at the end. I think I would recommend this as a rental or a matinée for those who want an intelligent film. It does keep you frightened on some level making you wonder if you could be next in a plague that will kill millions of people.8/10
A few months ago, I had heard little things here and there about The Orphanage, how it was a new scary movie by the famous presenter Guillermo del Toro who also directed Hellboy and Pans Labyrith. So you know there's going to be death and scary kids in the movie. Seeing this movie however, wasn't so easy, one of my co-workers saw the movie and said that it was really good, unfortunately I couldn't find it in any local theater, so I had to wait for the rental, which I got this week and watched The Orphanage today, this was truly a great ghost story. It was definitely more original than most, considering it wasn't relying on the jumps to get you screaming, it was noise, the surroundings, the actors, the story, it just gets you all up in your nerves.Laura grew up in an orphanage, but was adopted, she later in life takes over the orphanage with her husband and adopted son, Simon. She plans to re-open the place and offer it to other children. But when Simon tells Laura that he's made some new friends, friends that she assumes are imaginary are actually ghosts that are haunting Simon, causing strange behavior and scary noises to occur in the house. But Simon and Laura get into a fight, when Laura goes to find Simon, he's completely disappeared and Laura must find clues to unlock the mystery of the orphanage.This is not only one of the best foreign films I've seen, it's one of the better ghost stories. There is no Hollywood effects, this all takes back to when the writers cared and respected their audience enough to give them credit on their imagination. I just loved the ending, how it gave a different twist than what we are normally used too, you'll have to see what I mean because I totally recommend this movie to anyone. It's classy, well acted and presented, this is going to be a classic in the future.9/10
I usually don't go for the political thriller movies, they're usually just out of control when it comes to a story and just gets the audience very confused. But I saw Rendition's cover at Hollywood Video and I really like Reese Witherspoon, so I figured to just go ahead and see what the movie was about. I watched Rendition last night and this movie just got to me, it was just so sad. It makes you think just what if you didn't do anything wrong, nobody believes you, yet you're getting the blame for someone else's actions, you're getting the punishment and no one will trust you because of the color of your skin or that there is something that could be a framing? Rendition touches that base where no matter what, just as long as someone gets the answers they want, you'll be tortured into an answer that you have no idea what to say.Anwar El-Ibrahimi is coming home to Chicago from South Africa, he has a pregnant wife, Isabella, and a son. But when he is at the airport, he is pulled away by the FBI and CIA and is being accused of a bombing that occurred earlier, of at least having contact with the terrorist. Douglas Freeman, a CIA agent, his first "torture" just knows that Anwar doesn't know anything and starts to back down. Isabella at home, so frustrated not knowing where her husband is or even if he's alright. She turns to a friend who has high connections to find out that her husband cannot be contacted and is accused of being a terrorist.Rendition is a movie that is more blown away by the performances, the great: Reese Witherspoon, Alan Arkin, Omar Metwally, and Jake Gyllenhaal. Meryl Streep, she was great, but just didn't have much room to shine like she normally does, but for her small role, she made it work. The only complaint I have about this movie was how the story kind of bashed together in the end, you'll see what I mean. I think it was mainly to maybe make the movie a little tense, but it was more confusing where you might need to watch a scene again in order to understand fully what just happened. But I do recommend Rendition, it's a good thriller that reminds you that sometimes there is no right answer.8/10
I don't know why, but something just made me wanna pick up the movie The Man. Samuel L. Jackson and Eugene Levy, why not? I have never seen Samuel in a comedy, so I thought this would be interesting and it seemed like a movie with a guaranteed laugh. While I did have moments where I laughed, like the scene where Andy tells the bad guys who Derrick is, that he's his, well, you'll have to see, I don't know if I can write it on IMDb. The story was good and the actors were fine, I'm not sure why, but the movie just didn't work or click like I thought it would.Andy is a dentist who is about to go make huge speeches around the country, coincidentally he is in the place of where a cop, Derrick, is going under cover to buy weapons from a gang. Andy is mistaken for Derrick and now has become part of the case pretending that he's interested in this stuff. But it may not happen since he's driving Derrick insane with his pure and wholesome image.The Man has a few good laughs that I'm sure you'll get, but I do warn you that the movie doesn't provide a full out comedy that you'll die laughing from. Eugene held his own, but Samuel in my opinion at least really cannot hold a comedy very well. He was meant to play like a serious but lovable tough guy cop, but it didn't work. So I'll leave this one up to you, if you wanna check it out, go ahead, because it's one of those films you'll have to see for yourself.5/10
I really held back from Disney's later animated features, most of them started to slid down hill after The Lion King, excluding The Hunchback of Notre Dame, but it seemed like Mulan was going to be a disappointment for Disney. It turned out to be an actual pleasure watching this film. It had great animation, a good soundtrack, and a wonderful story about courage and strength.Mulan is a girl in China who is ready for marriage but seems like she isn't ready to settle down in this man's world where she must have permission to speak and only cook and please her husband. When her father is called to war, she fears for his life and dresses like him and fights in his place disguised as him. Mushu, her "guardian" dragon per say, comes to help her out and make sure she doesn't get herself killed out there in battle. She also falls for the captain that doesn't kill her when he finds out her secret.It is a visually stunning masterpiece that I am glad that I had a chance to watch. It had great morals and values for children, even if it was a bit unrealistic, we have to let go. Still, I don't think a film will compare yet to The Lion King or Beauty and The Beast, but Mulan is a treasure of it's own.7/10
I've seen it all when it comes to the thrillers, the good: Se7en, the bad: 88 Minutes, the ugly: High Crimes, so Untraceable, from the trailer, I had a feeling this was going to be one of those average or less than average thrillers that I figured would be more of a rental then a theater visit. So I rented it last night and watched it, although I am getting a little sick of the "technology will destroy us all" theme(it's been shoved down our throats a lot lately with movies), it's actually still a pretty clever movie. There are a few mistakes here and there, and some of these gadgets are a little out there for the computer age, but Untraceable I would say is a little above average, at least it wasn't one of those "guess the killer... *gasp* that was the killer?!" type of movies that you can predict so well.Jennifer Marsh is a FBI agent who does work on scamming websites, she has a beautiful daughter and her mother helps her since her husband was taken in the same line of work. One night, Jennifer comes across a website saying "killwithme.com", she goes on, there's a dead cat. But she goes on a little later, there is a man being cut and bled to death, the more viewers that watch, the faster he will die. But things get ugly when Jennifer and her co-workers are now being attacked.Untraceable is worth the look I would say, the acting is pretty decent. The casting was alright, I do like Diane Lane, but I'm not sure if the thriller genre is where she belongs, but she makes the movie watchable. Colin Hanks, again, love him, but as a detective, throws me off a little. But some of these scenes are gruesome, we are in the age of the Hostel and Saw torture, where it seems like nothing is off limits, so I warn you that there are some scenes not for the faint of heart. Otherwise, I would say that Untraceable is the go if you want a good thriller, it's worth the look.6/10
Zoe Saldana is a star on the rise, she's strong, beautiful, intelligent and a decent actress. Time to test her star meter as she takes the lead for the first time on her own in an action film. In Hollywood, it's rare to have an action movie staring a female, you need a good actress to take the lead in order for it to be taken seriously. But my boyfriend really wanted to see this movie because he just adores Zoe, I think he just has a good crush on her, but it was his turn for the rental. We watched it a couple nights ago and to my surprise without any knowledge of the film prior to seeing it, I really did enjoy this movie. I'm a little surprised at the rating as this is a better movie that I've seen for a while at least for 2011. I thought Zoe made a great action star, she was tough, sexy and brought a lot to a typical story.Fabio, a gangster and drug runner, has a meeting with Don Luis, to pay off his remaining debt and leave his employment. Fabio, however, knows that Don Luis will put a hit out on him for leaving with a valuable item that he holds and wants, a small disk with valuable information on the drug lords, so he rushes home to prepare his wife, Alicia and his young daughter, Cataleya. Fabio hands Cataleya the item that Don Luis wants, telling her not to lose it and to give it to the Ambassador telling her that it is "her passport". He also gives Cataleya an address in Chicago. She then uses the business card her father gave her to get into the U.S. Embassy and goes to the Ambassador's office. In exchange for this, they give her a passport and a small amount of cash, and fly her to Miami. She goes to Chicago after and meets her uncle Emilio, who teaches her how to become one of the slickest killers. She grows into a strong woman who eventually goes in above her head going into a personal revenge plot on her parent's death.The story may be predictable, but I liked the way it was handled over all. The action scenes were very tight and exciting. I loved that first scene with Cataleyna in the jail cell, it was very clever and almost reminded me of Catwoman the way she was just sliding her way through things. One thing I wished they would have talked about more was her feeling so lonely, it's a very brief conversation she has with her lover when he asks what she feels every night and it's never touched on again. She goes through this tough time as a child and it was just like to see her as an adult was more about the fighting and not the struggles she faces at times. But the actors did a good job, much credit to the man who played her uncle, Cliff Curtis, who had excellent chemistry with her. The film does need to explain more with the story but I felt that this was still a good movie with it's action and characters. Zoe is a good actress and I can't wait to see her more in the future.7/10
M. Night Shyamalan's first Rated R film and he blew it completely, I remember this year actually wanting to see this movie, it looked really interesting and Mark Wahlberg is becoming a more great actor in his experience. The only problem here is M. Night Shyamalan, this man is constantly credited for Signs and The Sixth Sense... that's it, because that and Unbreakable are his only good movies. Honestly, he's just loosing it, I think he's become so cocky and now he's trying to have more of an edge with this R rating. His story lacks any sense, there are just so many things wrong with this story and not to mention the characters have no sympathy. Nothing was ever properly explained and there are tons of plot holes. The ending was just a cop out, it was nice to see that Shyamalan didn't go for his typical "twist" ending, but still this story just needed so much work and probably would've been better under someone else's name.According to reports, citizens in the vicinity of Central Park have suddenly and inexplicably begun seizing up just before killing themselves by whatever means are at their disposal. As the phenomena begins to spread and talk of terrorism fills the airwaves, Elliot, his wife, Alma, their friend Julian, and his daughter, Jess, board a train bound for the presumed safety of the country. When the train screeches to a halt before arriving at its final destination, however, the frightened passengers are forced to fend for themselves as each consecutive news report paints an increasingly grim picture of the situation in more urbanized areas. Theories abound on what could be causing the unexplainable rash of suicides, but the only thing that everyone seems to agree on is that it's some kind of airborne contagion that is carried in the wind.I feel so bad for saying this, but seriously, I was laughing at the suicide scenes. I don't know why, just first there is a police officer who shoots himself in the head, literally his forehead, why would you aim it that way? Also a trainer feeds himself to his tigers that rip his arms off instead of knocking him down and people film it?! There is a woman who is on the phone with her daughter, puts her on speaker in front of a group of people to hear her commit suicide?! Also, Julian just leaves his daughter to find her most likely dead mother in the hands of a woman he doesn't trust, yes, let's leave the daughter and most likely make her an orphan. Gosh, I could go on and on about how horrible this movie is, but I think I'd run out of room. Just trust me, the story is just horrible and could've been good if maybe made more as an independent film, but Shyamala-ding-dong just ruined it.1/10
I saw Milk a while back, I was really looking forward to it because I had written a paper in my history class on Harvey Milk. We were learning about movements in the 60's and 70's, as a straight female, I saw one of my friends struggling with his sexuality and how hard it was for society, his friends, his own family excepting him for who he was. I wanted to find out more on the history of how we had either moved forward or backwards when it came to rights for homosexuals. Reading Harvey Milk's story was sad but extremely inspirational and looking at what people said about him, he seemed like the most lovable guy in the world. He was funny, charming, and just a wonderful person to be around, it was extremely sad to find out how his life ended and over something so stupid. Milk is one of the best films of 2008, it was made with great taste and Sean Penn delivers the performance of a lifetime playing the infamous Harvey Milk.Unsatisfied with his life and in need of a change, Harvey Milk decides to move to San Francisco with his boyfriend in hoping of a better acceptance. They open Castro Camera in the heart of Eureka Valley, a working class neighborhood in the process of evolving into a predominantly gay neighborhood known as The Castro. Frustrated by the opposition they encounter in the once Irish-Catholic neighborhood, Milk utilizes his background as a businessman to become a gay activist, eventually becoming a mentor for Cleve Jones. After two unsuccessful political campaigns in 1973 and 1975 to become a city supervisor and a third in 1976 for the California State Assembly, Milk finally wins a seat on the San Francisco Board of Supervisors in 1977 for District 5. His victory makes him the first openly gay man to be voted into major public office in the United States. Milk subsequently meets fellow Supervisor Dan White, a Vietnam veteran and former police officer and firefighter. White, who is politically and socially conservative, has a difficult relationship with Milk. He has a growing resentment for Milk, largely due to the attention paid to Milk by the press and his colleagues. After working tirelessly against Proposition 6, Milk and his supporters rejoice in the wake of its defeat. The increasingly unstable White is in favor of a supervisor pay raise, but does not get much support, and shortly after supporting the proposition, resigns from the board. He later changes his mind and asks the city to rescind his decision. Mayor Moscone denies his request, after having been lobbied by Milk to not reinstate White, leading to some disturbing acts of violence.I HIGHLY recommend that you watch Milk, this film was extremely moving and really makes you think before you say something stupid because someone else is different from you, not just sexually, but in general. It really breaks your heart to see how hard it must be for people who are different to express themselves and to be rejected by society. Sean plays Harvey with the love and compassion that the real Harvey would respect. We also have some terrific supporting actors: James Franco, Josh Brolin, Emile Hirsch, Diego Luna and Victor Garber. Milk was one of the best films of 2008, watch it, learn from it, and remember: do onto others as you would do onto yourself.10/10
I have stated before how much I hate romantic comedies, at least the one's that are the same concept over and over again, just different actors, but I had a chance to see Made of Honor for free today and I figured, why not? I mean, the thing is that you really have to give movies a chance, sometimes, you never know, your doubts are put behind you and you find yourself enjoying the movie. I mean, I love Patrick Dempsey and Michelle Monaghan, both great actors and are a lot of fun to watch on screen. So together it seemed like this movie might have stood a chance, but unfortunately once again, this is the exact same movie that we've seen five million times. I know that to people who haven't seen the romantic comedy genre, this is new, but Hollywood is just running out of idea's sadly. This story is no different from any other romantic comedy we've seen.Tom and Hannah have been best friends since college, Tom is the player who has had every girl, except Hannah. She has feelings for him, but hides it and he doesn't notice, but when she goes to Scotland for work, he realizes how much she means to him out of no where. Hannah comes back, but she's got a new thing going on, she's engaged, and Tom's plan to tell her how he feels is now ruined when she asks him to be her maid of honor. But Tom figures that he has a good chance to point out that she doesn't know her fiancée that well and that her and Tom "truely" belong together.The thing is, you can predict every moment before you know it's going to happen, it's sad when you could write a similar script, and just put different actors in it, there is a good chance that people will fall for it, at least it's good to have that kind of chance at making money. Made of Honor isn't the most horrible movie by any means, it had good intentions, but I would recommend if you really want to see it, just wait for the rental. As cute as Patrick and Michelle are, the chemistry is off and the script is just amateur. You've seen this movie five million times, believe me if you're into the romantic comedy genre.3/10
Seriously, I'm convinced, Pixar is maybe the only movie studio that is providing the best movies around. Who said that animated films can't be considered real movies? Can't be considered an art form? Up is the latest creation from Disney and Pixar, after last year's smash hit WALL-E, I felt like they couldn't at all top themselves and they did it again with this incredibly charming story. Admittingly from the trailer, I wasn't sure this story was going to work as well, but I got the opportunity to see Up this week and was just totally blown away by it's story, animation and characters. The thing I adore about these movies that Disney and Pixar are creating is that they're not just for the kids, but the adults as well, this is something that I could even see an adult seeing by themselves. This story doesn't insult kid's intelligence and is extremely entertaining for anyone to enjoy, to go through this adventure with an old man who just wanted to make his wife happy.Carl Fredricksen, a quiet young boy, meets Ellie in her clubhouse, discovering together they share the same interest in exploration as their hero, famed explorer Charles F. Muntz. Ellie expresses her desire to move her clubhouse to Paradise Falls in South America, a promise she makes Carl keep. Carl and Ellie fall in love, wed and grow old together in the old house where they first met. Ellie dies of old age before they can take their trip, leaving Carl living alone in their home. After a tussle with a construction worker over Carl's broken mailbox, the court orders Carl to move into a retirement home. Carl comes up with a scheme to keep his promise to Ellie, and creates a makeshift airship using thousands of helium balloons which lift his house off its foundation. Russell, a Wilderness Explorer trying to earn his "Assisting the Elderly" badge, has stowed away on the porch after being sent on a snipe hunt by Carl the day before. After a storm throws them around for a while, they find themselves across a large ravine facing Paradise Falls. With their body weight providing ballast allowing Carl and Russell to pull the floating house, the two begin to walk around the ravine. As they walk towards Paradise Falls, Russell finds a colorful tropical bird which he names Kevin, not realizing that the bird is actually female. They later run into a dog with a translating collar named Dug. They discover Dug's owner is Charles Muntz, who has remained in South America for several decades to find a bird like Kevin in order to restore his reputation after bringing back a skeleton and being called a fraud. Though Carl is initially thrilled to meet his hero, when he realizes that Muntz is after Kevin and will kill to obtain her, Carl takes steps to save the bird and escape from Muntz.Up is seriously the best movie I have seen so far this year, it's actually one of my favorite movies of all time, I can't tell you how much I enjoyed this film. Wither it was the fun and charming story between Carl and Russell, the crazy bird Kevin, or the story that nearly killed me in laughter, the dogs that have collars that make them talk. I don't remember the last time a movie that made me laugh so hard that my stomach hurt, it also made me tear up and smile. If someone ever tells you that an animated film can't be considered a real movie, just show them Up. I absolutely adore this movie, can't wait for it to come out on DVD and watch it again. This is a perfect family film, actually scratch that, it's a perfect film, the animation is incredible, the characters are lovable and the story is magical. Up is going to be a film to be remembered for all time, great movie, go see it.10/10
Ah, chick flicks, gotta love them, their non-clever formula's and clichés are always a joy to watch. OK, I'm being a little mean, it's all good, we do have some good chick flicks and from the moment I saw Bride Wars, I thought it looked promising. Sure, there are a lot of great conclusions that you come to when you see what the movie is about, two best friends who are scheduled to marry the same day, from: they're best friends who can't compromise? They could technically sue the company that mixed their dates up or even get it fixed if that company wanted to stay in business. But I just kept thinking, this is a movie, it could be a funny one if I let go. We do need movies like that that just escape reality, so I rented it the other day and I really couldn't escape how silly and over the top this movie was.Emma and Liv are best friends who have planned every detail of their weddings since they first witnessed a wedding at the Plaza Hotel. The two women get engaged. They then schedule their weddings with New York's most famous wedding planner, but due to a clerical error they're scheduled to have a wedding on the same day. A week of passive aggressive hostility passes before the two women make it clear that neither will compromise, especially after Liv tries to take advantage of Emma's passive nature and outrages Emma in the process. The women both attempt to sabotage the other's wedding, including Liv making Emma's tan turn bright orange, Emma tampering with Liv's hair dye to make it turn Liv's hair blue-white, Emma showing up to Liv's bachelorette party to out-dance her, and Emma secretly sending Liv chocolate and lollies to make her not fit into her dress. Oh when will the madness end? Gotta love women.Now the movie does have some good laughs here and there, but they're mostly shown in the trailer. I think one of the reasons this movie disturbed me though was due to the fact that there are women like this, one's that are so beyond obsessed with their wedding they don't even realize they're getting married. Women are competitive creatures unfortunately, I'm a woman, so I know, and we go to great lengths to prove we're prettier, smarter, kinder, etc., etc., etc. I wish that women would take a step forward where this movie is just proving time and time again that we are stupid. Two best friends who should love and support each other are trying to destroy each other's weddings, I was wrong in trying to give this movie a fair chance, it's just wrong on so many levels, wither it's the morals or just the clichéd characters, I wouldn't recommend Bride Wars.2/10
Back in the 1980's Clive Barker created a horror movie that took us to the edge called Hellraiser, creating one of the scariest villains on screen called Pinhead. Pinhead took pleasure in giving pain to others, tearing their flesh and torturing them. I remember watching an interview with Clive Barker and he laughed saying that he receives fan letters from women who say they would have Pinhead's baby gladly. But I wonder how they would make out with Pinhead, that would have to be a bit painful with all those pins poking at you. I digress, the Hellraiser sequels took a strange turn when they made Hellraiser: Inferno. Now not concentrating on the cenobites but the people who are going through the hell and trying to break back into reality. Seeming like the script was written first and then Pinhead was added later, Hellseeker makes the same mistakes as Inferno did.Trevor survives a car accident that apparently kills his wife Kirsty when their car plunges off a bridge into the river below. Trevor manages to escape with his life, but, even though police divers find both car doors open, there is no sign of Kirsty. One month later, Trevor wakes up in a hospital and realizes that his wife is missing, but because of a head injury, his memory is uncertain and he cannot distinguish between fantasy and reality. Trevor finds himself the prime suspect in a murder case, and has two homicide detectives on his tail. Many strange events befall him, until the Cenobite Pinhead shows him reality. The reality is that Kirsty is in fact still alive. Trevor learns that in reality he was never a good guy. He cheated on his wife with many other women. He then tries to get rid of Kirsty by making her reopen the Lament Configuration. She does but before being taken she strikes one last deal with Pinhead. She will give him 5 souls in exchange for hers.A lot of horror franchises have a few good sequels that present good ideas and could possibly bring the series back to life. Hellseeker is the one who almost brought the Hellraiser series back to life but still didn't hit that right mark. With a great twist and a clever story, the editing on this film was just atrocious. A lot of times you're so confused you almost give up on the movie in it's entirety. I love the ending, I thought it was a great twist even though you already have a feeling of what really happened in the story. They do give away too much in order to make it into an excellent movie. The whole movie isn't paced very well as I mentioned the editing, everything goes so fast that it gives you whiplash. The lead actor also didn't hold enough charisma to carry the movie. It was Ashley Laurence who saved the movie, but she's not in it enough to give the movie the life it needed along side with Doug Bradley, as their chemistry is always perfect. If you want to finish the series, of course you have to see this one as the ending does make the movie, but the beginning is very slow paced and not that interesting. Otherwise, this one was pretty much a skip.4/10
I'm not sure why, I never had The Pacifier on my mind or had an interest to watch it, but when I passed the movie at Hollywood Video, I figured maybe I could just give it a shot since it was a free rental. My friend also said that she loved The Pacifier and that I would be into it if I loved Kindergarten Cop. I have to say that while The Pacifier was extremely predictable, it was a fun little family movie that has a few good laughs here and there.Shane Wolfe is a Navy SEAL, he is very serious about his work and very dedicated to discipline. His mission was to protect a professor who created a program called GHOST and unfortunately the professor is killed, but he disk is still out, so Shane is asked to protect the professor's family and try to retrieve the disc, otherwise he has become the new nanny and may find it a bit harder disciplining tough strong guys to 5 horrific children.The Pacifier, well, you can predict one scene after the next, but this movie was intended for kids, so it's all good. I loved the scene where the Russian nanny tried to leave and Shane freaked out and tried to grab her from leaving the door, honestly, if that scene didn't make you laugh, check your funny bone. To those who haven't seen the film yet, go ahead and give it a chance, it's a good family film.6/10
I remember as a child watching Matilda, I thought it was the coolest movie and wished so badly to be like Matilda. But I only saw the movie on TV, it was one of the rare movies I didn't have on VHS. So I hadn't seen the film since I was a kid, but I noticed while I was at the store that they had Matilda on DVD for five dollars. I didn't really hesitate to buy it and feel some good old nostalgia. Being a kid of the 90's was an awesome time, we had some great shows and this was the last time where movies were very cutting edge and not afraid to scare or to not insult the audience's intelligence. I couldn't wait to watch this again thinking that this film was so cutting edge at the time, but now realizing as an adult, this film is kinda mean spirited.Matilda is an intelligent child; however, her gifts are unappreciated by her family. She is left alone in the house all day while her father Harry, works as a crooked car dealer, her mother Zinnia goes to play bingo and her bullying older brother Michael goes to school. Matilda is enrolled at Crunchem Hall Elementary School, where children are routinely terrorized by the cruel principal, Trunchbull. But Matilda's teacher, Miss Honey, is a kind and caring woman. Miss Honey attempts to appeal to Miss Trunchbull and Matilda's parents, but they refuse to listen. Matilda realizes she has developed extraordinary powerful telekinesis. After she gains more and more control of her new-found telekinetic ability by practicing, she decides that it's no more Miss Nice Girl.I don't know, as a child this movie was so amazing to me. I think it means something; this was a movie that was totally meant for the children. Even though I think that this was somewhat disturbing for young kids, it's still a fun fantasy. As a child, it seems like a daily thing where you're constantly reminded of how you're not important or you're too small or too young to do things. Also when the adults get busy, not saying Matilda's family was out of control with the self absorbency, but it's easy to feel neglected. It's a great idea to think that you could have super powers and make the adults pay for the mean acts that they've done to you; it's awesome for a child.As an adult, this movie seems a little too mean spirited. The family isn't just mean, they're beyond cruel, and not saying that some families can't be like that, but it's just a bit much and hard to believe that from their cruelness Matilda is a sweet girl. The principal is just out of control and granted this is a fantasy, but again, it seems like she's insane crazy out of control where in the real world not only would she be fired as principal for abusing the students but arrested. And I was wondering if she hates children so much, why is she a principal? Also the way Miss Honey accepts Matilda having these disturbing powers was a little too easy as well as the children accepting it and laughing at it. Matilda's brother tries to throw a carrot at her and she uses her power to make him choke on the carrot, no matter that it's meant as funny, I thought it was weird. I think this film is fun for the kids as a fantasy but as an adult I grew out of the love I had for this film. I wouldn't dismiss it, at least for the kids, but for the adults, I think it's safe to say that it wasn't meant for the grown ups.6/10
So after a very frightening trailer, Orphan looked like a very interesting movie, even though we have done many of the evil children films, sometimes it doesn't hurt to see a new twist to the story. Even the rating on IMDb kept going up and up after a few weeks, so I checked out Orphan and over all while it's a very strange movies and no doubt has some flaws here and there, it's a very effective and chilling horror movie. What truly makes the movie though are the top notch performances we get. Isabelle Fuhrman who plays Esther, this little girl is only 12 years old?! I can't believe how well she did, how creepy and charming she could be, her presence on screen was absolutely sensational. Vera Farmiga and Peter Sarsgaard who play the adoptive parents are perfect, their chemistry was on key and also are heart breaking to watch as you see their marriage on the shakes over this manipulative little girl that is just plain evil.Kate and John Coleman are having problems in their marriage after Kate's third child was stillborn. The loss is particularly hard on Kate, who is still recovering from a drinking habit that cost her her job. They adopt Esther, a 9-year-old Russian girl they had met, from the local orphanage. While Kate and John's daughter Max embraces Esther, their son Daniel is less welcoming. Kate grows suspicious when Esther, who watched Kate and John have sex, expresses far more knowledge of sex and its slang than would be expected for a child her age. Kate is further alarmed when Sister Abigail, the head of the orphanage, warns her and John about Esther's tendency to be around when things go wrong. Esther overhears this and later silences Sister Abigail forever. John does not believe Kate, despite continued ominous behavior by Esther. Kate learns that Esther was housed at a mental institution in Estonia called the Saarne Institute. Daniel decides to go to the police. However, Esther sets the tree house on fire, intending to get rid of Daniel. Daniel escapes by falling out of the tree, and gets a severe neck injury. Esther again tries to kill him at the hospital by smothering him with a pillow. As doctors rush to save Daniel, Kate angrily knocks Esther down for doing that and is sedated by doctors. But Esther isn't done yet with her plan, but what's wrong with Esther? Well, apparently she's the hand that is rocking the cradle.While Orphan is a good movie, it does have it's share of flaws here and there. Kate slaps Esther severely when she suspects Esther of trying to murder her son, in front of people no less, yet somehow no police are called and she can walk easily out of the hospital after being sedated. Also how did the parents adopt a child only after 3 weeks of meeting her? Normally this takes a good long while, admittedly this is a movie, but still I'm supposed to believe this? Also even though the ending was a good twist, sadly after seeing way too many movies I was able to figure out what the ending was before everyone finds out all together. But if you have continued to read my comment this long I would actually recommend this movie if you let go of the little flaws here and there, this was a very entertaining thrill ride of a movie. This is one of the better movies I have seen this year and it's definitely worth the watch.8/10
30 Days of Night was one of the horror films I was looking forward to most this year. I mean from the moment I saw the trailer early spring, I was looking up on IMDb when the release date was, it was agony knowing that I had to wait until October. Finally, last night, opening night, it was storming in my city, so it was like the most perfect time to go see this movie. So my friend and I saw this last night and the theater was packed, when the movie ended, there was only one person who started to clap, but then stopped immediately when he saw that there was no one else clapping. While my friend liked this movie, I wasn't too thrilled. It didn't seem like a real vampire film, more like Night of the Living Dead or 28 Days Later, where this group is just hiding from the vampires. Not to mention that things were just not well explained, but maybe I need to read the book to get it, because this movie failed to explain certain situations.Eben is the sheriff of the northern most town in the U.S., also it is night for 30 days, the roads shut down and some of the population leaves and some stays. Things go extremely bad though when a gang of vampires decides that this is the perfect town to move to. They pretty much get most of the townspeople, except for Eben, his ex-wife, Stella, his little brother, Jake, and a couple more of their friends. Since the vamps have cut the power and had someone burn all the cell phones, it's impossible for the gang to escape, but they are going to try to make it for the month. But that's going to be tough when the vamps spoiled their dinner the first day and now need more happy meals on foot.The plot was incredibly good and original, I was so thrilled that this seemed to be like a real vampire movie. But unfortunately there were things that were just not well explained. Now like how the vampires seemed to want to be known in this world, but then later on they try to "hide" what they did by burning the town, it didn't make much sense. Then how did The Stranger fit into this whole mess? Was he a potential vampire? Was he promised to live if he did these things for the vamps or promised to be turned into a vampire? Then also why did Josh Hartnett become a vampire? I know it was to gain super strength, but still, it seemed kinda silly for him to jump so quickly. Not to mention the love story between him and Stella didn't have good enough chemistry to pay attention too. I feel bad bashing this film because I so badly wanted to like it, but it just didn't pull through for me.5/10
I remember in 2000 seeing some of What Lies Beneath, but I never got to finish it, so I figured I would rent the movie recently. I just watched it last night and I have to say that actually this movie sent chills down my spine, I was really impressed with how intense it was. Michelle and Harrison were absolutely perfect for these roles, I couldn't imagine anyone else in their parts. My only problem with the film though was some of the questions were left unexplained, like the bloody shoe next door and how quickly the situation of Michelle's husband's situation was with the girl that was haunting her, but when you see the film, you'll see what I mean.Claire and Norman have just moved into a new home where their daughter has gone off to college and they are all alone. They seem like an extremely loving couple and that they have everything under control. But things get scary when Claire starts to hear voices and see ghostly images around the house. Norman thinks she's crazy of course, Claire first suspects her neighbor of murdering his wife, but then she realizes she is wrong and that her husband has a deadly secret that he's kept from her and now it's after her.What Lies Beneath was a great thriller and is a guarantee chill if you watch it at night with the lights turned off. The acting was great and the atmosphere was perfect, the director really had the feel of the film and what it should of been. Just the script needed more work I think, it just left me with some questions, I don't mind usually that much about that stuff, but with this film I felt it was kind of important. Not to mention I didn't like the ending with the computer effects, but I'm letting that go. Over all, I would recommend it, it's a scary thriller, but be prepared for unanswered questions.6/10
I hate rude humor, I find it absolutely unnecessary, disgusting, and overdone. So, I had no interest what-so-ever in seeing Borat: Cultural Learnings of America Make Benefit Glorious Nation of Kazakhstan, whoo, that was a mouth full! But after seeing the positive reviews on IMDb and another friend telling me how hilarious it was, my best friend and I just saw it in the theater tonight.Borat is a news reporter in his country of Kazakhstan and is about to go to the United States of America to see what information could be taught to his people. He goes to America with his friend and agent learning that things are not so similar with his country, like kissing other males as a greeting, using the facilities properly, learning that Jews are accepted in the U.S., women are supposed to be treated equally, and he has fallen in love with Pamela Anderson and will go on a journey across the states to find her. Along the stops, he learns the ways of America, the worst and the best, and brings back great surprises to his country.Despite all the offensive humor, I have to admit that I just about died laughing at the scene where Borat and his friend get into a fight while they're butt naked, it's so crude, but I couldn't catch my breath, it was so funny! While I'm still not sure if this is the best films of 2006, I will admit that this had some great laughs and it was fun to watch.7/10
I saw the trailer for Captivity quite a while back, like last spring of 2007, and it looked so cool and scary. But unfortunately, it was one of those big fright fest movies that were not being shown in the general theaters, so I figured it was not a bother to look for it. But I saw it pre-viewed at my video store and decided to go ahead and just buy it, after all, like I said, it looked pretty cool and I like Elisha, so why not buy it? Now I love horror films, I really love horror films, but this one was stupid, I think it's my new favorite guilty pleasure, just because it's one of those films that it's so bad that it turns right around and it's actually just fun to watch and make fun of, you know? It's all good, we need a cheesy horror film every once in a while.Jennifer is a beautiful and successful model/actress with the whole world at her feet. But when she goes to a local night club/charity event, she is kidnapped and put into a dark and scary cell. She is tortured and is being held against her will. But when she discovers a man next to her cell, they develop a quick friendship that quickly leads to a sick tale of seduction. Jennifer and the man try to escape, but it seems impossible, but she learns of something even more twisted with her cell mate/lover.Now the thing I love about Captivity is how this plot I think was all just to get a girl for some guy's weird fantasy, I don't know, they didn't explain it well, but like I said, I think flowers and a simple "will you go out with me?" would suffice. But that's just me, I suppose in this twisted world. But Gary, after Jennifer finds out about his true self, he goes from victim to very suspicious idiot. This movie is for those who will let down their standards and have fun, that's what I have to do since now I own it, but it's all in good fun and is at least has the probability of me taking MST3K on it.3/10
OK, I know I'm going to either get a lot of hate for this and a lot of confused emails, but Red Sonja to me is an ultimate guilty pleasure. My sister and I used to watch this movie all the time when we were kids, we both wanted to so badly fight with Red Sonja and be apart of the group. So oddly, after years of not watching this since I was a kid, my sister and I found the DVD for 5 dollars and decided to watch it. Oh, the things that are so wrong with this film that makes it so right again. Looking to be a spin off of Conan, we were introduced to Red Sonja played by Flava-Flav's ultimate true love, Bridgitte Nielson. The 6 foot tall drink of glass shows us that this was her acting class as she rehearses her lines as if she had just read them the night before and screams "Gedren, where are you?!" while moving her mouth in the strangest way. She teams up with world's other tall drink of  beef(?) Arnold Schwarzenegger as they battle it out on who can act the worst? Well, who knows who will win with this silly story.A large temple full of white-robed priestesses are getting ready to destroy a large, glowing green orb called the Talisman. This dangerous artifact's destructive power increases from exposure to light and the priestesses intend to destroy it before it gets out of control. However, the evil Queen Gedren and Ikol attack with their army. The warrior-priestesses resist, but are ultimately subdued by Gedren's forces. Gedren gets her hands on the Talisman, but not before proving the myth that only women can touch it and survive. Gedren orders the remaining priestesses to be imprisoned in the vault which held the Talisman. One of those priestesses, Varna, manages to escape. She doesn't get far before she's mortally wounded by an arrow in the back. As luck would have it, she literally falls into the arms of the mighty Lord Kalidor. She begs him to help find her sister, Red Sonja. Sonja has been training with a Chinese sword master when Kalidor informs Sonja about her sister. Sonja arrives just in time for Varna to tell her about what happened at the temple. Before dying, Sonja's sister urges her to find the Talisman and destroy it, or else the world will be destroyed. Everything about this movie is bad, but that's what I love about it. You know how sometimes you just need a bad movie that you can make fun of and have a good time with? Supposedly, Arnold Schwarzenegger jokes that he uses this movie as punishment for his kids when they act up. Is it that bad? It is bad, but it's a ton of fun. I loved the action, Arnold fighting Bridgitte for her love as no man may have her unless he's trying to kill her, lol. I loved the last fight scene between Red Sonja and Queen Gedren, Gedren loves pulling a ton of jump cuts on her as well as one of Gedren's wizards who is using vodoo to cut Sonja to weaken her, then when she discovers the wizard, instead of him cutting her again, he just stands there, lol. Also the little Prince Tarn with Falkon was classic and they worked so well together. I think the scene that made me laugh the most was when Red Sonja, Prince Tarn and Falkon are stuck in the cave with the machine dragon and Arnold is just riding around with it making it look more like a roller coaster ride rather than a fight for his life, lol! My opinion, if a movie entertains you even if it is bad, why fight it? This is a good bad movie and I know I will always enjoy it. My recommendation being if you have an open mind and decide to just let go and enjoy the ride Red Sonja takes you on, take it or leave it.7/10
I love action movies, I mean, I really love action movies, even the most unrealistic one's like Die Hard and Commando, they're just all in good fun and enjoyable. Either the action movie is going to be great and unrealistic or great and have a fantastic believable story. So I saw Shoot 'Em Up the other day when I rented it and over all, yeah, it can be fun at times to watch, it brought me back to the good ol' days of Commando where this guy is just getting shot at by 50 men at the same time yet he kills them all and doesn't get a scratch. Just like Paul Giamotti's character said "OK, do we really suck that much or is this guy really that good?", so true, at least they recognize it. But Shoot 'Em up is just for those who are just very trigger happy and doesn't have the best script. I just thought that Shoot 'Em Up could've had a great story with terrific actors, but they went the other way.Mr. Smith is just sitting at a bench, minding his own business eating a carrot, he sees a young pregnant woman running down the street. A car skids by and man gets out chasing after the woman and is about to kill her, but Mr. Smith decides to get involved, he delivers the baby while in the middle of a shoot out, but the mother gets killed, he keeps the baby and realizes that this baby means something. He gets a hooker, Donna Quintano, to help him take care of the baby, but this hit man Hertz is not giving up and will get this baby even if it requires killing Mr. Smith, the ticked off British nanny.There is a scene where Mr. Smith and a bunch of Hertz's men jump out of a plane and somehow are still shooting at each other, now I can accept unrealistic, but that was way way way way beyond anything that could be believable and I just ended up laughing at. It has the smooth talk and stunts of a perfect action movie, I just had a hard time because I think this was one of those movies that could have had a better developed story, it would have been better. I do give Clive better credit than I thought, he made a great hero, just if we are going to do unrealistic, make it fun unrealistic, like Commando, not tell us Mr. Smith's history and not tell us why he decided to get involved with this.6/10
From the moment I saw the trailer for Miricle at St. Anna, I thought it was going to be a great film. I came here onto IMDb to find a lot of negative reviews that shyed me away from seeing it, so I was kind of debating on seeing this film. I was also disappointed with Spike Lee's comments towards Clint Eastwood, I felt that the motive he had for this movie was misplaced. While the movie is a little too long, it's an incredibly powerful film, but once again we see too much of Spike Lee's view on racism. I think with a different director it could have had better tastes on the rough subject of what these soldiers had to go through. But I would say otherwise this was a very good movie and should have been given a better chance by the viewers. I agree completely that it was a little too long, don't mind the long movies at all, but the beginning is a little slow paced, but into the first hour it really starts to pick up and makes your body shake and fills your eyes with tears.We open with a black man who seems to be very quiet and has probably an interesting story... he goes to his work and sees a man, all we get is "Oh, God, it's you..." and he shots this man in cold blood. The police and press go to his apartment to find the head of a statue from Italy that is practically priceless and when questioned, we find out that this man has the story of a life time. Back in WWII, he and other black soldiers are sent to Italy to fight the Nazi's. One of the soldiers finds a young Italian boy who can't speak one word of English, but they take him with, eventually staying with an Italian family who are frightened by the Nazi's and are becoming Facists. But as the soldiers grow together during this difficult time, they find out that the boy they found knows more than they could ever discover leading to a bloody battle and how one man could destroy so many lives.Miricle at St. Anna is seriously a very good movie, if you do have the opportunity, I do recommend seeing it, just make sure you have the time, it's a long movie. Like I said, it does pull itself together for an extremely powerful ending. I was so speechless at the end of this movie, there were scenes that just completely got to me. We do see a lot of movies showing the violence of the Nazi's, but this will stand out with one of the most gut wrenching scenes I've ever witnessed with the Italian church and these innocent people who the Nazi's just slaughter. If Spike Lee would just be quiet about his views on racism and how he hates it when other directors don't include black actors or characters in their story, this movie would have better publicity, which is very sad. But like I said, it's a great movie, has powerful performances and a great setting with an inspiring story.7/10
Movies about demonic possession have been around for a very long time, some are terrifying, some are horrible. I saw the trailer for The Devil Inside when I went to see Paranormal Activity 3 and the whole audience was screaming, I have to admit that it gave me the chills too. Even though it looked a little silly, there were some genuinely creepy moments. So I saw this yesterday and despite all the bad reviews I was really curious to see what this movie was about and to give it a fair chance and may I say that the bad reviews are very justified. Not to say that this is the worst film I have ever seen, but I am getting sick of the "lost footage" genre, we know it's all fake so why bother trying to make us believe that it's real? Though the one thing I really give the film credit for is that it tried something different by making it into a documentary type of movie, which was really cool and I loved that it looked at both the scientific and religious side of demonic possession, giving the viewer a reason to question what was real and what was possibly a mental illness. However the slow pace of the creeps and the scares leads into one of the worst endings in movie history.Maria Rossi committed a triple murder during an exorcism performed on her. The Catholic Church became involved, and she has since been in a Catholic psychiatric hospital in Rome. Her daughter, Isabella, learned of the murders from her father, who died three days after telling her. Twenty years later, Isabella is in the process of filming a documentary about exorcisms, and to find out more about her mother, she visits a school in Rome that deals with exorcisms and enters a classroom where students, priests and scientists are having a discussion about whether or not a subject is possessed by a demon or just has a mental condition. She has dinner with a few students and ends up getting a little closer with two priests, Ben and David. They talk more about the differences between being possessed and mental illnesses, and inform Isabella that they can't explain the differences, it's something you "just know". On that note, Ben and David are operating outside of the Church and performing exorcisms to help patients. Isabllea then decides they are the perfect duo to help her mom, but they may have bitten more than they can chew when they accept.If you make a film about demonic possession, offer something new that we haven't seen before. I'm not talking about just the contorted bodies and talking in tongues, but they offer something great with a demon that could jump from body to body just terrorizing every humanbut then after this great idea and making you want even more, they pull the rug out from under you. Also, when did the demons get such a potty mouth? Taking a page from The Exorcist? The film does copy off of previous possession films which makes it not as original. The characters are unbelievable and not sympathetic so you don't care about what happens to them. Why would a family put their possessed daughter in the creepy basement locked up? Why after a priest tries to drown a baby during a baptism he's able to just walk out of the church? And why in these lost footage films do people during critical times always grab a camera? There are some good little scares with the mother who the film is somewhat centered around with her possession, what a chilling performance. However with a horrible ending, the movie is just ruined. The audience comes wanting to be entertained, not feel like they just got slapped in the face as the director is counting their money laughing to the bank.2/10
Hmm, it's interesting on some of the reviews I've been reading on IMDb with users saying how Sam Raimi has "returned", hmm, when did he leave? Well, I'm assuming because he hasn't really done a horror movie for a while, he got into those crazy and over the top Spider Man movies(I'm not dissing, loved Spider Man 1 and 2). So when I first saw the trailer for Drag Me To Hell, I can't tell you how excited I was to see the movie then came, sigh, the rating. PG-13 horror movies are normally pretty terrible, they don't have much suspense and are so tame that it couldn't scare the super intelligent 5 year old. But, somehow, Sam Raimi, our awesome director of such cult classics as The Evil Dead series and Darkman, has brought us the intense and sure to be a new cult classic "Drag Me To Hell".We meet Christine Brown, a loan officer with a promising future. A position for assistant manager has opened up at the bank where Christine works, and both she and her rival co-worker, Stu, are up for the promotion. Christine's boss, Mr. Jacks, advises her that she needs to demonstrate that she can make tough decisions and hard calls when she needs to. That same day, Mrs. Ganush, an elderly Gypsy woman, asks for a third extension on her mortgage because she is struggling with her economic problems due to her sickness. Christine, after a private talk with Mr. Jacks, denies Mrs. Ganush the extension against her better judgment to prove herself to her boss. In desperation, Mrs. Ganush begs Christine, and kissing the hem of her skirt. As a crowd of customers and employees gathers, Christine panics and shoves the woman away, shaming her in public. That night, in a parking garage where Christine is walking to her car, she notices Mrs. Ganush's yellow vehicle parked across from hers. Christine enters her car and realizes that Mrs. Ganush is staring straight at her in the back seat. After a short struggle, Mrs. Ganush removes a button from Christine's jacket. Mrs. Ganush places a curse upon the owner of the button and says to Christine, "Soon, it will be you who comes begging to me," before returning the button. Pretty much Christine enters the seventh circle of Hell at this point with this curse and tries to get rid of it through the help of her boyfriend, Clay and fortune tellers.Drag Me To Hell was very cleverly made and even has a morbid sense of humor to it to give the audience a breather. That's why Sam is awesome, he knows what it's like to be the audience, with so many horror movies today that are just a huge loud noise to scare the audience and it's the cheapest horror trick now in my opinion, he adds a joke to it to let the audience go with the flow of the story. This film is gross, gory, funny, scary and just all together a great horror experience. I have to say that one of my most hated clichés in horror movies are the old people that are supposedly creepy, but aren't, Mrs. Ganush definitely made me not only cringe but made me make my boyfriend to promise to shoot me before I get old well, she was scary! Trust me, really scary; ah, just go see the movie, it's a good recommendation.8/10
The other day I showed my boyfriend a great movie, Stand By Me, a movie I have shown to many people and they absolutely adored it, but for some odd reason he didn't like it. He lends me a movie called Backdraft and he tells me that he's shown it to many people and they loved it, instead I hated this movie. I don't think I've hated a movie so much in a while, how this movie has even a 6.6 rating is beyond me. I couldn't keep up with the five million stories here: Billy Baldwin becoming a fire man, the random sibling rivalry, the random love story(s), the who's being an arson story, the investigator, the fire who has a personality of it's own. I just have a problem that this movie can't keep up with all these stories, they didn't balance out well enough make the film interesting. I would have just preferred if this movie was about being a firefighter or the investigator and how he came to be one or what it is exactly he does and why.The movie tells the story of a group of Chicago firefighters, two brothers. Stephen "Bull" McCaffrey, the elder brother, is obsessed with the beating of the fires that he fights. Brian, the younger brother quit the fire fighting academy school several years before, then embarking on a number of other unsuccessful careers before returning to become a firefighter. He is looked down on by his elder brother who expects him to fail in his newly chosen career as a fire fighter. Donald "Shadow" Rimgale is an arson investigator who is dedicated to his profession. He is called in because a number of fires that have occurred have somewhat similar connections. .Martin Swayzak is an alderman on the City Council. He has obvious hopes of being elected to mayor, but has had to make a number of budget cuts to the fire department. Many of the rank and file firemen believe that the cuts that he has made are endangering the lives of the firefighters. However, Swayzak is initially successful in portraying the fire department as bloated and ineffectual after firemen are repeatedly being killed in blazes.I just couldn't get into this movie, I don't know how anyone else could, it was incredibly unrealistic and portrayed firefighters all wrong. I loved how they had every action cliché in the book to match this action flick. I just felt also like there was great talent wasted on such mediocre roles, Donald Sutherland, great actor, but such a strange role that could have been taken by a lesser known man who had the upcoming talent at the time. I know Ron was going for great quality, but I think him casting such huge actors in small roles was a mistake for this film. I even had to joke my way through while watching this movie commenting how the doctor in the background was probably Kevin Spacey. The fire was so unrealistic and the movie was just so out there, I didn't enjoy it and honestly wouldn't recommend it to people, I'll stick to the recommendations in my relationship from this point on.2/10
We were blessed in the United States several years ago when we were introduced to the amazing British spoof comedy Shawn of the Dead. What a great movie! It also brought us two incredible comedic talents, Simon Pegg and Nick Frost who later brought us Hot Fuzz as well. These two work so well together because besides the fact that you can tell that they are friends off screen, they have a passion for film and have such amazing chemistry. They spoofed the zombie genre, they spoofed the action genre, now they're spoofing the sci-fi genre. Only thing that's a bit sad is that this wasn't as big a splash as I was hoping it would be. We can tell that Simon and Nick are total nerds when it comes to this stuff, it's alright because I'm a nerd as well, but they did go a little over the top on the references. Not to dismiss this comedy totally because there are some really funny moments. When I saw the trailer I think my hopes just got very high because it looked amazing, it was just a small let down when I realized that the story was either a hit or miss moment.Graeme and Clive are two English comic book nerds and best friends who have traveled to America to attend the annual Comic-Con convention. Afterwards, the two take a road trip in their RV to visit all the sites of major extraterrestrial importance. Later, they see headlights racing up behind them and they speed off in their RV. The car suddenly wrecks up right in front of them, and rolls off the highway. When Graeme and Clive investigate the crash, they meet and discover an alien named Paul who is in desperate need of their help. Lorenzo, a government agent, arrives at the site of the crashed car and informs his female superior over the radio that he's closing in on Paul, and she recommends using local law enforcement as back-up. Graeme, Clive and Paul are now on the run to get Paul home but not without taking a special friend first.Simon and Nick are still hilarious together, Seth Rogan as Paul, it does work but it's pretty much any character he's played in a movie. I'm just getting a little sick of the constant slacker role that he takes. Now with the whole religion controversy that's going on around this film, I think it's a bit silly that people are taking it so seriously. It's only 5 minutes of the film that a character questions her faith and it's a movie! One of those moments where I can say just let go and have fun, if you're a person of faith and really cannot tell the difference between a movie and real life, then you have bigger problems. The special effects on Paul are alight, I can see that they were going for the more 50's style of what we thought aliens looked like. Though in my opinion, I do wish we could come up with something a little more original, but I guess they wanted to stick with safe and familiar, so I can let that go. But like I said, the references are a bit much at times, we get that Simon and Nick both love the sci-fi genre, who doesn't? But it doesn't mean you have to reference Aliens because Sigourney Weaver is in the film, that in itself is a great reference. But I would recommend this movie for a rental, while it's nothing special, it's definitely worth the watch, you'll get a few laughs out of it. It seemed like the cast and crew had a good time, it's harmless and fun.6/10
If you're like me when you saw this film, I'm pretty sure you're a huge action movie fan as well. You name it, I love it: Face/Off, Die Hard, Rocky, Lethal Weapon, Rush Hour, First Blood, Terminator and my all time favorite Commando. The 80's action films to me are just beyond awesome, as stupid, cliché and ridicules as they are, they are so much fun. I cannot describe the fantastic time I have when watching a film like Commando. The weird thing is about a year ago I was telling my boyfriend that there hasn't been a real great action movie since Face/Off or Con Air. Most are going for the realism, there's no more cheesy one-liners, no cliché British villains, no insane crazy explosions where the hero of our story walks away unscathed. I had this sad face when saying that because I don't think we could ever have that again. But then I saw that The Expendables was in the works and I went insane calling my friends and telling them how I couldn't wait to see this movie. Stallone, Schwartenegger and Willis are back, it's like your favorite rock group from the 80's come back for the biggest concert and the final farewell.A group of elite mercenaries, the Expendables: Barney Ross, former SAS soldier Lee Christmas, martial artist Yin Yang, sniper Gunnar Jensen , weapons specialist Hale Ceasar and demolitions expert Toll Road. Yang and Jensen have a brief fight, only for Ross to intervene. In the aftermath, Ross reluctantly releases Jensen from the Expendables due to psychological problems. Ross then goes to a church, where he and his rival, Trench meet "Mr. Church", who offers them a mission in Vilena, to overthrow a brutal dictator, General Garza. Busy with other things, Trench gives the contract to Ross. Ross and Lee Christmas do initial reconnaissance after meeting with their contact, Sandra, only for the mission to go awry. Sandra is revealed to be Garza's daughter. Ross then decides to abort, and causes casualties among the army as they escape, but feels guilt for leaving Sandra behind. The Expendables then infiltrate Garza's compound, with Ross bent on rescuing Sandra, while Christmas, Yang, Ceasar, and Road plant explosive charges throughout the site and prepare for battle.Sadly, this film was a disappointment. Not to say that it was bad or anything, but it didn't have that "wow" factor that we wanted. This film has a pre-curse, most action movie fans knew what they wanted and had this movie already played out in their heads. I have to admit that maybe my expectations were too high, because I just felt sad after seeing it. Let's start with the villain, they didn't seem too threatening. First off they seemed to be more angry with each other than with our hero's, so ironically the hero's should just step aside and just let the villains beat up each other. Secondly, they were scary on some level, but I didn't feel that hatred for them like I did for the villains in Rambo that makes you want their blood to be splattered across the screen. Also Dolph Lundgren would have been a better villain as he's a more dimensional character that was a perfect opportunity for a traitor. I was so hoping for when Sylvester shot him two inches above the heart and Dolph asks him if he's going to die, Sylvester says "If you die, you die", wouldn't that have been the most perfect ironic line in the world? That would have made the film so much more awesome.Speaking of which, Willis and Schwartzenegger are in it for barely 2 minutes, which was really depressing. I was telling my friend that what would have been great is to see these guys together in the final battle. Because the film also stars the upcoming great action stars, it would have been like them passing the torch. The film is also badly edited, I don't think Stallone is meant as an action director. The shots are too close up and gets you too confused to see who's fighting who. Jet Li who is an incredible martial artist is toned down too much. The whole motivation for Stallone to come back to the violence is for a girl who he doesn't even have a cliché kiss with! If this film had different stars in it, I think The Expendables would have been a terrific film, but because Stallone was saying that this was an "homage" to the 80's action films, this was a huge disappointment. I was so excited and just let down. The film had so much more potential, guess I'll have to wait for the 5th farewell concert for these guys. Because the sequel better be like that Itchy and Scratchy episode from The Simpsons where they were pointing guns at each other and they kept getting bigger and bigger, I want that with these guys. I want them to fly past the moon screaming all their famous one liners including Samuel L. Jackson screaming "That's what I'm talking about Motha-$#@$@$a!". Now that is an action film that will blow all the others out of the water.6/10
My mom and I saw Hairspray today in the theater and I have to say that Hairspray is the best musical of the year and actually in the past few years at that. I haven't enjoyed a musical this much in a long time. Hairspray was so uplifting and was wonderful to watch, it really makes you feel good about everything, that being different from what is described as "normal" is OK and can be hip. The music and dancing were terrific, I actually bought the soundtrack after we left the theater. John Travolta actually made a good looking woman, lol, but he, Christopher Walken, Michelle Pfhiffer, and Queen Latifa were sensational! I couldn't believe all the talented people that were in this musical.Tracy is a plus sized teenager in the 60's, a hard time of racism and harsh acceptance. Her and her friend Penny love this show, the Corny Collins show, Tracy auditions for the show, but is snubbed immediately by the manager, Velma. But with the encouragement of her parents and a cute guy, she tries again and makes it on the show and is an automatic hit! But Velma and her snotty daughter won't let her steal the spot light, and are also snubbing the African Americans from having an integrated show. With the help of Tracy's friends, they prove that anyone can be a star and shine.Hairspray is without a doubt one of the best films of the summer, I highly recommend this movie to anyone, even if you're not into musicals, this is just such an uplifting movie. I loved the John Waters cameo in the beginning, the director of the original movie, Hairspray. This was a fantastic film and was brilliantly made, I'm sure that you'll have so much fun watching it.10/10
When Happy Feet took the Oscar for best animated film of 2006, I became extremely interested in seeing this movie. But I kept on hearing that this didn't deserve the Oscar, so I was a little scarred about seeing it, but I figured, everyone has a different opinion of what deserves what award and such. So I rented it anyways and I watched it last night, I have to say that this was such an adorable film and so much fun, why all the mean reviews? It had great animation, fun songs, and an adorable story that I'm sure anyone could enjoy.On the Emporer Penguins Island, they are known for singing, not only that, but they are terrific at it, but when Mumble is born, he's a bit different, instead of being a singer, he's more of a dancer. But no one is buying it, in fact he is even sent away from the island, but he meets several penguins who are also outcasts. But there is also a bigger problem, the fish population is winding down when humans keep taking them, the penguins are starving and Mumble will try to use his tap dancing skills to communicate and save the island that has isolated him away from his friends and family.Happy Feet is all in good fun, I think people really should give it another chance. Out of Cars and Monster House, I would pick this for the Oscar, but I guess I might be alone on that one. But like I said, everyone has a different opinion, but I think if you just give this movie a shot, you'll find yourself laughing and having a great time. It's a great family film, I loved the animations, the story, and the songs, they were just terrific.8/10
The 5th installment into the Saw series, every year during Halloween, we know what to expect in the theater, the next Saw sequel. I remember seeing the first Saw and how much it freaked me out, the audience reaction, that we had never seen something so intense or gory as well as having a clever twist. Now the main reason why everyone sees these films is because they just wanna see the new torture devices the Jig Saw Killer has come up with, the Saw series has become the poor man's Se7en. I'm not going to lie, hey, I'm American, I do love to see the new devices, it's interesting and fun to watch. I'm just curious when the Jig Saw Killer runs out of criminals if he's going to go after the mediocre criminals, like a kid who steals candy... "Hello, Jack, I want to play a game... you've enjoyed candy your whole life, now are you willing to kill for it?" or something like that, OK, that was silly, but you get what I'm saying.The Jig Saw killer is now dead and we are curious who will take on his legacy since Amanda failed at it as well. But we learn now that he had more inside players than we knew about. That maybe even a detective who has seen so much injustice in the world is finally ready to get his hands dirty. But the detective may wanna think fast since another policeman is on his tail wondering why everyone else who went to investigate the jig saw killer is dead or horribly injured yet he doesn't have one scratch on him. While this is happening, we have 5 individuals who all have a horrible secret in common and they have to go through the next series of nightmarish events, but instead they think too quick and about themselves before others to reveal something even more horrifying.Saw V is a decent installment, it's much better than the 4th in my opinion. But still it's just become more about what next trap will be set next. I just felt so bad for that first blonde girl in the group, it's like she had one line and bam! She's gone. I felt like some of the story was rushed or too slow. But the traps as usual were fun. But I also felt though as if now they're just looking too much for a way to continue the story, I know there is already a Saw VI in the making, but seriously, they should just stop now, because it's becoming more and more silly.6/10
Wow, seriously, last year I thought I was robbed because I didn't get to see The Social Network in the theater. The way some users were describing this film as "the defining movie of our generation" I thought I was missing the next "Godfather". I was trying to wait to buy the film on pre-view over at Blockbuster because again with the hype I assumed I would probably love the film, but I caught it on a movie channel this morning and have to say while it's definitely a good movie, I really hope this isn't the defining movie of my generation. The Social Network is loosely based on the rise of Facebook, the world's most popular website and IMO the fall of society. I'm sure it had good intentions in the first place as it was awesome to keep in touch with my college friends back in 2004, but it's gone down hill since then. But to the movie's credit, we are blessed with some pretty good actors, fast editing and a really interesting story. I think that's what really saved this movie from being just another addition to this hot trend.In 2003, Harvard University student Mark Zuckerberg is dumped by his girlfriend. He returns to his dorm drunk and writes a scathing blog entry about her. This inspires him to create an on-campus website called Facemash which allows users to rate the attractiveness of female students using photographs pilfered from various university systems. FaceMash's popularity and the fact that Mark created it in one night while drunk brings him to the attention of Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss and their business partner Divya Narendra. Mark approaches his friend Eduardo Saverin and tells him of his idea for what he calls "The facebook", an online social networking website exclusive to Harvard University students. Eduardo agrees to help Mark, providing $1,000 to help start the site. Starting the rise and rise of the popular social network site Facebook.Jesse Eisenberg as Mark I thought was what really stepped the film back from being a perfect film, he's a good actor, but doesn't have the charisma to make Mark likable and talked way too fast for average movie goers to understand half of what's going on. That does damage in reviews, because if people understood it, they automatically mark that as they are intelligent, not to go onto that rant, but just a pet peeve of mine. I read The Accidental Billionaires and Mark seems like a very nice guy who wanted to create something very good and seems like a pleasure to meet in real life. Jesse plays him off too much as a shy nerdy jerk who's just too greedy at times. Justin Timberlake playing Sean Parker, he's good enough, he seems to really enjoy playing what I would assume Sean to be like since he almost took down the music industry in the 90's. Justin plays him cool and really proved to that he can both talents in the music and acting industry.Is The Social Network the best film of 2010? Depends on your taste, my favorite contender is still The Black Swan. However, this film does deserve it's praise mainly for David Finch and his vision. His fast pace with the film was what kept it going and his passion for the story was what really grabbed me. Though I know not to take this for a biography, I don't see why they couldn't stay a little more true to the story, though from what I understand, Mark is a very private manironic. I would recommend The Social Network, it will be apart of film history to describe our era in computers, however, I don't think it's our generation's defining film as many have described. Just don't believe the hype, I found it good just to watch it once.7/10
It's so funny because I had such a hard time deciding on what I should rate this film, I haven't seen a terrible, but yet such a guilty pleasure type of film that is so bad that it just makes you laugh all over again. Not to mention, you can't help but just go crazy over Jack Nicholson's role, this was one of his first's, he's such a baby, but you can tell even back in his day he loved being the clown and making people laugh. The thing about this movie, this is not the musical, so this was more of a sci-fi with a mixture of dark humor, it even has some attempt at good old fashioned drive through horror. This is such a low budget film, you can tell by the bad effects, the unknown actors(excluding Jack, even though he was a no-name at the time), and the way the film is made. But there is something so campy about this film, as cheesy as it is, you do enjoy it on some levels.Seymour works for Mr. Mushnik at a flower shop that isn't doing too well and it's about to go bankrupt. Seymour is constantly being threatened by Mr. Mushnik about loosing his job, but the love of his life Audrey always defends him, and Mr. Mushnik cuts him some slack since Seymour takes care of his sick mother. But one day Seymour brings in a plant that looks like a fly trap that all of a sudden attracts a lot of customers and brings business and life back into the flower shop. But there is only one type of food that this plant needs to stay alive and grow... human blood, leading Seymour into a murderous second life that has everyone scared for their lives on who will be next to feed this mighty plant.The Little Shop of Horrors, well, even though I prefer the musical, in some ways it made more sense as a musical vs. a cheesy sci-fi movie that really had some disturbing humor, but it's fun for what it was. Like I said, it feels like one of those old drive in movies that had you cuddling with your sweet heart, all because of a man eating plant. The acting is bad, the effects are horrible, the editing is terrible, but for some odd reason, I think we can all have a little bit of fun with this movie. As bad as these movies are, there's something special about them, I think because the cast looked like they were just having fun together and they did try to make a fun movie, so you have fun with them in this campy movie.5/10
When I first saw the trailer for Be Kind Rewind, I was kinda thrown, it looked like it could be possible fun, but possibly like it could flop. But I couldn't find it at any local theaters, so I did have to wait for the rental, which I did watch the other day. Now many would jump so quickly to say this was a comedy, it is, but I'm not so sure, it has some funny moments, but it's kinda a dark humor. I'm not so sure what to call it, but one of the things I absolutely loved about this film was how original and unique it was. This is a film like we haven't seen before and it was fun to watch. We all watch movies and I'm sure you've wondered what would it be like from our point of views? Well, that's what Be Kind Rewind is about, with the power of two best friends and a camera, with some of the worst movie props in history, they make some of the wackiest movies.Jerry and Mike are two very good friends and Mike is in charge of his boss's video store while he's away at a convention trying to figure out how to make his store more popular. Jerry lives next to a nuclear power plant where he plans to destroy it and gets electrocuted instead, causing him to make all the video tapes in the store blank. When a regular customer wants to watch Ghostbusters, Mike jumps quickly and makes Ghostbusters his way with Jerry, not only does she fall for it, others see what they have started, making the store more popular and wanted their movies Sweded style.Be Kind Rewind is a decent movie, I really liked it, I mean it does throw you off here and there, I would say this was more worth the wait for the rental. But I just loved how they made all these popular movies into their own version. I know this was stupid, but I loved Jack Black's version of the Ghostbusters theme and how he got the words messed up, but my favorite film they made was Rush Hour 2, you'll have to see what I mean. I do recommend this film, like I said, it's not strictly comedy, but I thought it was a good film that has some really strong moments with a great cast and an original script that works very well.7/10
Gosh, I know I'm going to receive a lot of hate for this review, seeing how the rating is pretty high on Body of Lies, but honestly, I just could not get into this movie. Don't get me wrong, I was really looking forward to it, Leonardo DiCaprio and Russell Crowe, it's like an automatic can't miss and would also just be a great movie. One thing I can definitely say is that Leonardo is doing a lot of serious message movies lately. There are a good hand full of political thrillers, but for me, I've never had one that I could watch a second time, so I thought Body of Lies might change that for me. Unfortunately I just wanted to beat myself after this movie, my head hurt so much, I know that sounds so bad, but for me this plot was just too complicated. I even had to step out for a few minutes during the movie just to take a breath. Now I'm going to try to explain the story as best as I can so just bare with me.Roger Ferris is a CIA agent who goes undercover quit a bit, constantly capturing terrorists, pretty much is always a success and he even gets promoted. But now he must go deeper, he must befriend a terrorist leader who tells him off the bat his one rule is to not lie, obviously if Ferris is caught, he will be tortured to death. Ferris wants to constantly pull out when things get too tight and he knows his cover will be blown, but his boss at home, Ed Hoffman won't let him, not understanding how far Ferris is away and how scary it must be to be in this situation and just doing his best not to get caught.Body of Lies was by no means a bad movie, I hope that the IMDb users understand that. I think it's just better to wait for the rental, because this movie is just incredibly deep and you definitely need a chance to pause the movie and breathe. The subject matter is just very intense not to mention this is a thinking movie, so you have to be in a certain state of mind. But the performances definitely make it worth your while, the surprise performance came from Mark Strong who plays the lead terrorist who Leonardo must befriend, his performance was the one that stood out to me best. Over all, this is a well made film, I think the subject is a little too dark, but this is a rental movie if you are into political thrillers.6/10
I had no clue as to what to expect when I decided to rent Black Snake Moan, I never heard of it and wasn't sure if it would be a good movie. But when I checked IMDb for the rating and the user comments, over all it's pretty good, so I rented it yesterday and just watched it a few moments ago. I have to say that I was actually very impressed with this film and how good it was. I know I might get bashed for this, but I was in awe that Justin Timberlake actually did a good job of acting. But it is Samuel and Christina that truly take this film. Together these two had incredible chemistry and really made the story work it's way into your heart on those who just need a hug and a reminder that life can be hard, but you just have to keep strong and know that there are better ways of handling life.Rae is a girl who just lost her boyfriend, Ronnie, he's going to fight the war. She's left in her little town where she has a bad reputation of sleeping around and she doesn't mind it either. But one night Ronnie's best friend gets mad when Rae insults his manhood and beats her up and leaves her at the side of the road. A divorced black man, Laz, finds her and takes her to his home to help her and make sure that he purifies her. Rae struggles at first, but after talking with Laz and his friends, she discovers that there's more to life than just hooking up with guys and that maybe she's worth something a little more.Christina Ricci has come such a long way since that little girl in The Addams Family, she is truly growing as an actress and to be honest I wouldn't be surprised if she gets an Oscar nod in the future. She was really incredible in this film as Rae, she broke my heart and was very moving. Samuel did a great job as Laz as well, his scene where he's singing to Rae about his ex-wife and their life together made me cry, he was so wonderful to watch. I would recommend Black Snake Moan, it was a pleasure to watch and the story was inspiring to never give up on yourself.8/10
I'm what you would call a rare commodity: a female stooge fan. When I was a little girl, every Sunday night from 1989 to 1994 there was a stooge marathon on TV and my dad and I would have popcorn and ice cream and just laugh the night away. I always wondered if it was nostalgia that I loved the stooges so much, but I still as an adult get together with my dad and will bring over a stooge DVD and watch it with him, his wife and my fiancé and still laugh like if we were seeing it for the first time. There was something so special about these guys who went through anything just to make people smile and you could tell that they loved doing so. They've inspired so many comedians today and a lot of people still consider them to be the top dogs of comedy, they really did create slap stick. So when I heard there was a movie coming out where the stooges were going to be in today's world, I just cringed, even more so when I learned it was the Farrelly brothers behind it, they're a hit or miss team. But in the surprise of 2012, we got a great comedy that I'm sure if the stooges were alive today would really enjoy and that's because of the lead actors who held this film together and had a lot of love and respect for these three knuckleheads.Ever since Moe, Larry, and Curly were dumped on the doorstep of the Sisters of Mercy Orphanage, they have wreaked havoc on the place and have left the nuns there scared. 25 years later, the trio is still living there and attempting to help out, and taking care of the kids as well. When they get wind the orphanage will be shutting down unless they can come up with $830,000 in 30 days, the trio volunteers to go out and try to raise the money somehow. A woman named Lydia is trying to kill her husband, and offers to pay the trio the money they need to take care of the job. However, they botch the job and leave the supposed husband in traction in the hospital. When they try to visit to finish the job, they are chased throughout the hospital and escape by jumping off the roof using a fire hose. They end up running into a now grown up Teddy, a boy they lost an adoptive family too, from the orphanage, who invites them to his anniversary party. Turns out that he's the actual husband they need to kill.What could've been a total flop turned into a very funny comedy and I think the reason it worked was because the obvious love that Sean Hayes, Will Sasso and Chris Diamantopoulos had for the stooges. The jokes were perfect and even directly taken from some shorts. The mannerisms were also on key and you almost believe it's the real Moe, Larry and Curly on screen. Even the side characters were really funny like Sofía Vergara, Jane Lynch and Stephen Collins. I liked how we could see the stooges in an updated world where it's completely different from the 1930's. The film has a couple flaws like how they have this "heart to heart" with Moe which honestly was never apart of the stooge shorts. I can understand they have to have conflict in the movie, but it didn't work with the characters. Also there's an end credit scene where they explain the gags. I completely understand where they are coming from on this one, but really? After the film?! Why not before the film have a little disclaimer? It was lame and I'm sorry, it ruins the movie because it's like having James Cameron doing a scene after Titanic saying how the ship was CGI and none of the actors were actually hurt, it takes away from the film. Honestly, if you're too ignorant to explain to your children the difference between fantasy and film, you shouldn't be a parent. My dad explained all the gags to me when I was a kid and on top of that what kid can pick up a 20 pound hammer and hit someone in the head with it? OK, I end my rant on that. However, I think this film was a pleasant surprise and a pleasure to watch and I can't wait to add it to my stooge collection when it comes on blu ray.8/10
What haven't I heard about Coming to America, a lot of people in my life have always brought up this movie and rubbed it in my face how they have one movie they could stump me with. What can I say? I had to rent it and see it for myself, after all, this was the decade where Eddie was king of comedy. I have to say that my friends were right this was just a really funny and enjoyable movie. We have Eddie as the lead and John Landis directing, there is no wrong. Well, that's wrong of me to say, just love these two guys. But is the movie as good as everyone says it is? I did laugh and have a good time, this was something original for it's time and just had a good time entertaining the audience.Akeem Joffer, the prince and heir to the throne of the African country Zamunda, is discontented with being pampered all his life. The final straw is when his parents present him with a bride-to-be he has never met before, trained to obey mindlessly his every command. Akeem concocts a plan to travel to America to find a wife he can both love and respect. He and his servant & friend Semmi arrive in Queens , New York, and after several scrapes, find an apartment. They begin working at a local restaurant called McDowell's passing themselves off as students. Akeem falls in love with Lisa, Mr. McDowell's daughter, who possesses the qualities the prince is looking for. The rest of the film centers on Akeem's attempts to win Lisa's hand in marriage, while adjusting to life in America and dodging his royal duties and prerogatives.I know everyone loves the line "the royal penis is clean" but my favorite that had me on the floor is when Prince Akeem has moved to Queens and he's all excited, goes outside to scream good morning to everyone and some guy says "F you!" and the Prince doesn't realize that it's actually an insult and screams "Yes! Yes! F you too!". Trading Places is one of my favorite comedies of all time and I loved that John Landis included the Duke brothers joke into the movie, I nearly died laughing, but there is a flaw in that joke. Unfortunately for those who hadn't seen the movie would not get that joke and John should have taken that into consideration. But I really did enjoy this film, I'm really glad that my friends wouldn't stop teasing me that drove me to see Coming to America, this is the Eddie Murphy that I will always be happy to watch.8/10
I bought the triple pack feature of the Psycho sequels a few days ago and I just finished Psycho IV: The Beginning, what was actually made for TV. Also not directed by Anothony Perkins, this is a sequel that works and was a cool conclusion to the Bates sequels. Well, it's actually a prequel, which I thought was a good idea to see how the Bates killings started. The only problem? This was a made for TV movie, I felt like if someone had given the movie a proper chance, a little more budget, and a theatrical release, this could've been better. But the cast pulls it together and makes this chilling sequel worth your time. Psycho IV: The Beginning could have been a disaster, but it's an interesting take on the chilling mystery of Norman Bates.Norman is out and living his life normally with his new wife, Connie. But when he is listening to his favorite radio show, the subject on boys who kill their mothers, Norman can't help but call of course to describe the gruesome killing of his own mother. Seeking through his past of his victims, his isolation, and his abuse, he has threatened to take another life, and must find in himself to destroy his past once and for all.Psycho IV: The Beginning, for me it was Olivia Hussy who pulls in an impressive performance as Norma Bates, which I honestly have to say I was really put off with her casting, but she pulls in such a good and scary performance, she became Norma. The cast makes the film enjoyable, but like I said, if this movie was just given a little more money, a more put together script, this would've been a good movie. But let's put it his way, it's so so so much better than that thing they called a remake of Psycho.5/10
My boyfriend and I were looking for a movie to rent the other night and he pulled up I love you, Man, I kinda cringed. Even though I love the Apatow crew(actors in this case), I'm getting a little sick of them being in every comedy these past few years. But I think I have to throw in the towel, because it seems that they are the only group that are pulling in the good comedies. I love you, Man is no exception, this is a romantic comedy that we need, it's the different kind of romantic comedy that really gave us a good laugh,. Every romantic comedy is so typical and this was different. Some people are really good at relationships vs. friendships and vice versa, this movie shows us what it's like to keep both in perfect balance and harmony when it's not that easy. I could relate as my group of friends and I grew up together and a few of us are on the same page with relationships and the rest are still playing the single game. My best friend and I are like that and that's why I loved this movie, it was good to get a laugh out of the same situation. But also how hard it can be to make a friend when you're grown up and on a different path than someone else.Peter Klaven, a big-time real estate salesman, just got engaged to Zooey. Zooey is ecstatic about the engagement and calls her friends to tell them about it, but Peter does not seem to have anyone special he'd like to share the good news with. While visiting his parents, it comes out that Peter is actually a "girlfriend guy," and his male friends when he was growing up "fell by the wayside." After overhearing Zooey's friends tell her that they are concerned Peter does not have any friends, Peter realizes he needs to find some male friends in order to have a best man for his wedding. Peter seeks the advice of his younger, gay brother Robbie on how to meet platonic guy friends and how to take them on "man-dates". With failed attempts Peter gives up, but during an open house at Lou Ferrigno's, he meets Sydney Fife. They hit it off when Sydney gives a play-by-play of a potential buyer's body language and what it means. The men exchange business cards. They hang out and really connect, but as their friendship grows stronger, his relationship with Zooey starts to weaken.Paul Rudd and Jason Segel have such great chemistry in this movie and brought a ton of laughs. Jason Segel I have to give a lot of props too, he could have made his character into some sort of a cartoon but instead chose to give him some depth and it made him more real. Paul Rudd was good at playing this awkward out of his league guy who is so great with the girls as it comes more natural to him, but with the guys he's just out of his element. My only complaint being even if it did get a cheap laugh was when Paul Rudd threw up on one of the guys he's trying to hang with because he drank too much, just there are too many comedies that take that cheap blow and I think this could have risen above it. But it's all good, I had a great time in watching this movie, it was realistic and brought new light on the genre of friendship. I would highly recommend the movie, it's a good one.8/10
OK, I didn't know what to expect when I saw the cover to Fido, honestly when I came across it in the video store I was tempted to rent this movie, but nothing about it really grabbed my attention. But when I was looking around in Netflix, they were advertising this like crazy if I liked "goofy" scary movies, so I figured to just give it a shot. I'm so glad that I did watch it, this was just a great movie, it was absolutely hilarious and so charming to watch. Like I said, it's Pleasantville meets Night of the Living Dead, it's just a great concept, what does happen after a mega zombie attack? As we see in another zombie comedy, Shaun of the Dead, they have fun by making the zombies left over as "handy" citizens. This is a very overlooked horror/comedy movie, I think a lot of people were just so blown away with Shaun of the Dead that this got the boot. But it's a great story and the cast was perfect and made this into just a really funny movie.In a 1950s alternate universe where radiation from space has turned the dead into zombies. This radiation still plagues humanity, as all those who die after the original contamination turn into the undead. In order to continue living normal lives, communities are fenced with the help of a governing corporation named Zomcon. Zomcon provides collars with accompanying remote controls to control the zombies' hunger for flesh so as to use them as slaves or servants. In the town of Willard, a housewife ,Helen, buys a zombie in spite of her husband Bill's zombie phobia. Their son, Timmy, befriends the zombie, naming him "Fido". One day Fido's collar malfunctions and he kills their next door neighbor, who turns into a zombie. Timmy "kills" the zombified neighbor. When a pair of local bullies are blamed for the missing neighbor, they capture Fido and Timmy. Helen comes and rescues Timmy and Fido from the bullies and they try to forget about the whole thing. Several days later, the neighbor's body is found and the murder is traced back to Fido, who is taken away to Zomcon where the public is told he will be destroyed. Timmy learns through a friend that Fido is simply working in a factory at Zomcon. Timmy sets out to rescue him with the help from his neighbor with a zombie girlfriend in hopes to get Fido back.I really do highly recommend this movie if you get the chance to see it, it's so silly but a lot of fun. Billy Connelly did a great job as Fido and really brought, no pun intended, a lot of life into the character. I think the scene that made me laugh the most was when Timmy has to burry the old lady that Fido attacked and killed, his last words to her were so funny, "you weren't really nice, but you liked flowers, so" and he buries her in the garden. Not to mention the neighbor with the zombie girlfriend, sick, disturbing, wrong, but classic laughs. I still love how even though this is like the Leave It To Beaver-esquire type of world, there still is a lot of gore in the movie. So if you do have a chance to see Fido, take it, I promise some good laughs.9/10
OK, this movie is in no possible way to be family movie of the year, I can't stand Marin Lawerence with a passion, I mean this guy has the most ridicules sense of humor and his movies usually equal bad. But my boyfriend wanted to see College Road Trip so badly, so it was his pick. We saw it tonite, I have to say that actually with several exceptions, this wasn't such a bad family film. As for me and my boyfriend alone to see it? No, uh uh, but I'm judging this as what it is meant to be, a family film. I know that these Disney family films get a little old, the story is played over a million times, but I realized something, the story is safe, so naturally they'll play on it. So honestly, it's not that big of a deal, as for some of the jokes? Some were not that bad, some were cute, but some were just, oh, god, Donny Osmond.Melanie is what you would call the perfect daughter, perfect grades, good morals, great friends, and has just got an interview with Georgetown University for acceptance. The problem? Her over protective and controlling father, James doesn't want to let go of her, so he tells her that they'll go on a college road trip and in the mean time he'll try to convince her to go to a school closer to home. But along the way he learns that maybe it's time to think of what she wants and to trust her.College Road Trip isn't a horrific film, I wouldn't put this into the bottom 100 on IMDb, believe me, you could do so much worse when it comes to a Disney family film. I know a lot of people are giving this film a bad rep, but honestly, it's worth it for the kids. It's cute enough for the family, has a good message, and isn't all so bad. Honestly, if it were not for Donny Osmond coming into the film and scaring 10 years off my life, I would give it a higher rating, but I think my rating is generous enough. For the family, I recommend, for an adult, you might wanna avoid. I'll be having nightmares for a few days of Donny and his daughter singing.4/10
Rush Hour 3, the sequel I've been waiting for, it's been 6 years since our last Rush and I couldn't wait to join Chris and Jackie once again for their awesome comedy and action. I saw Rush Hour 3 a few days ago and I have to say that while I was definitely entertained, this still didn't feel the same as the previous Rush Hour films. It had great comedy, don't get me wrong, Chris Tucker is still so much fun to watch on screen. Jackie adds a little more comedic edge to his role this time; but it seemed like Jackie and Chris are not clicking as well as they used too. It almost seemed like they were meeting for the first time watching them on screen. Not only that, but this movie seemed more rushed and the story wasn't as well developed as the first two Rush Hour films.In the beginning it seems like Lee and Carter are not on good terms, Carter seems to have broken off Lee's relationship to his ex girlfriend, Isabella. After an assassination attempt on China's Ambassador, Lee and Carter are about to face the Triads', China's deadliest gang. They are looking for a list in Paris and Lee and Carter are on the case to find a beautiful woman who might hold the secret. Things get a little more tricky when Lee has to his own brother who is the leader of the Triads'.Rush Hour 3 is all in good fun, standing on it's own, if this was the first Rush Hour, it would have been fine somewhat, but just comparing it to the first two films, this wasn't as good. But that's just my opinion. But I think if you loved the first two Rush Hour films, you should see this, it's still a fun film and has great comedy, there is a little less action, a warning in advance, but it's all good if you are looking for a fun film for the end of the summer.6/10
Bruce Campbell, the man is a god in the horror fan base. A lot of people just adore this man, he's Ash from The Evil Dead trilogy! How could you not love this guy? But even though he has a huge fan base, he isn't known by everyone. Also he is kind of a has been, it's sad how his career never really took off. So through the indie film called My Name is Bruce, we are given an unoriginal plot with some goofy jokes on the world of Bruce Campbell and what it would have been like if he really did have to face a monster.In the mining town of Goldlick, Jeff, a young fan of Bruce Campbell, and his friend Clayton go out to a cemetery to meet two girls. Jeff removes a medallion off the mausoleum, unleashing the Chinese god of the dead, Guan-Di, who kills Clayton and the girls while Jeff flees. Meanwhile, famed B movie actor Bruce Campbell is promised a birthday surprise from his agent, Mills Toddner. Bruce meets Jeff, who kidnaps Campbell and takes him to Goldlick in hopes that his hero can save the town from Guan-Di. Upon arrival, Bruce assumes it's his birthday surprise from Mills, and thinks it's all a movie, despite a lack of cameras and a script, and agrees to "help". After gearing up at Goldlick's gun shop, Bruce and many citizens of Goldlick go out into the woods to take on Guan-Di, which Bruce still thinks is part of a movie. Bruce then finds out that it's all real and flees Goldlick, angering the townspeople, upsetting Jeff who will now take on the monster himself.This movie I think was made more for the fans as there are a lot of inside jokes. I like the little inside cameos and references, but I've seen Bruce Campbell movies. I don't think if my friends saw this that they would get a lot of the movie. There are some genuine laugh out loud moments, like when Bruce sees his fans right outside his studio and he has the war veteran fan who's just being a jerk to him so Bruce just kicks the fans wheel chair down the hill. Sounds mean, but I can understand what some of these stars would like to do to the fans who have over analyzed their films or have a sick obsession with them. The jokes do get very goofy at times and there are some moments that fall flat, mostly with the side characters who fall flat.There's a love story that just feels so contrived and unreal. I know the whole film is meant to be that way, but Bruce and his number one fan's mom who hates Bruce at first randomly falls for him out of no where. I would've preferred if she stayed consistent and just gave Bruce the rejection to show that he doesn't always get the girl. Also the plot isn't exactly original as we've seen comedies before where an actor thinks that something is a movie but it's real life. It can still be funny if written well. I'm sure that the writers were looking for this movie to be a cult classic and they really put their love and effort into it, it just didn't hit that right spot. It's a good movie, but again it's more for the fans as they will understand the jokes better than the average movie buff.Personally, I still liked the movie, I got what I wanted from it. Bruce seemed to have fun with it and it's important when it looks like at least the crew had fun because the love you put into a film is what the audience could feel. I give the crew credit for trying this out, maybe Bruce will never be a huge superstar, but I think he should be grateful for some of the fan base that he has, because when you lose the stalkers, that's when you're career is really going down the drain.7/10
Ah, great, I can't believe I'm writing this kind of a review. I have never been so disappointed in my life, I went into Eclipse expecting a really bad movie like New Moon and it turned out to be much better than I expected. It's the best of the trilogy, even though that's not saying too much. New Moon was very possibly one of the worst movies I had ever seen, it was very poorly written and had God awful characters that are not likable in any way. Twilight, the first film, was so small for what it was trying to do and just wasn't very strong. However, working with a much better director like David Slade who did Hard Candy and 30 Days of Night, he knew not to take the film so seriously and it actually matured quite a bit.As Seattle is ravaged by a string of mysterious killings and a malicious vampire continues her quest for revenge, Bella once again finds herself surrounded by danger. In the midst of it all, she is forced to choose between her love for Edward and her friendship with Jacob, knowing that her decision has the potential to ignite the ageless struggle between vampire and werewolf. With her graduation quickly approaching, Bella has so many decisions to make: if she will marry Edward, if she will become apart of the vampire clan, if she will choose Jacob instead, if she will abandon her family and life. As this is happening, Victoria is still seeking her revenge on Bella by creating an army of new born vampires who crave nothing more in the world than blood and will do anything for it. Having to decide if Bella's life is worth it, Jacob and Edward must come to peace with each other if they want to save Bella's life.The actions sequences are a lot better and actually makes the film a lot more entertaining. As we see in the first two films, when the vampires run, it's a long shot so it looks very CGI and in this one we have more close up's making it look a lot more realistic. Even the werewolves looked a lot better than in New Moon. I'm betting David Slade called the computer company that did New Moon and said "OK, you guys have got to be kidding with what you gave me; work on the image!". Also the characters even go a little more in depth, Edward and Jacob are a little more interesting in this story. Honestly, if it were not for Bella, this would have been a much better movie.See, this is where the downfall is with this series, besides the story, our main character Bella. She is very possibly one of the most flat characters ever written, she's so beyond boring. I can't honestly feel anything for her because she's just honestly a horrible person, she pits these guys against each other who are fighting for her and I can't even understand why they would fight for her. She's not that pretty, she's one tracked in thinking and she's a manipulator. When we finally are getting a little more interested in Jacob and Edward, Bella interrupts it. She's going from kissing Edward to kissing Jacob to kissing Edward and not even apologizing for it. I'm also convinced that Edward is gay, I'm not saying this as an insult, but there's a scene that reminded me of Will and Grace. Bella wants to sleep with Edward, but he wants to wait until they're married, he gets nervous when he kisses her and doesn't even want her undressed, in Will and Grace when we find out how they met, that's the exact same situation, only Will tells Grace after he proposes to her that he's gay. It's not insulting the character, I'm just having a very hard time believing that he loves her as he tells Jacob when asked him if Bella chose him instead, Edward says "I'd let her", what is that? Are you kidding me? That's Bella's great love? Wow.With better direction though, this film does a lot better that I expected, even if it's not saying too much. It's just the story that is really bad, the dialog and characters. David Slade did the best he could and he even made it enjoyable when Edward and Jacob actually talked, Jacob even says when he has to warm up Bella in a blizzard "I'm hotter than you", I couldn't stop laughing at that. I think that line was added last minute, also same with when Edward sees Jacob and asks "does this guy have any shirts?", they actually had fun with the script and that's what picked up the film as well as better action scenes. But to sum this up, Eclipse is better than I expected, but it's a rental for me, but I'm sure the fans will like this one a lot better.6/10
Well, what can I say? I knew that I was potentially watching a bad movie, but in some way I had a little hope for the film when I began watching it. I haven't even seen the original, to be honest, I didn't even know this was a remake. Weird, I've seen a ton of movies, but never heard of this one. Anyways, I always look for a fun little horror movie, but The Stepfather fails as we enter in typical clichés once again with the jump scare, clichéd characters and a very unscary villain. I always love how the main character suspects something about our obvious villain and somehow everyone doesn't seem to agree with him that something isn't right. Now this villain is everything you could imagine that people would question who he really is, but when he gives the most BS answer, they just accept it. He's barely part of the main family for 6 months, he looses his temper by grabbing his fiancée's son by the neck and she doesn't believe her son?! How can I like these characters? This story is just stupid.Michael Harding returns home from military school to find his mother Susan happily in love with a man known as David Harris. He seems like the perfect father and husband to everyone; except Michael, who suspects that he isn't quite the man he seems to be. Along with his girlfriend Kelly, his father Jay, and Susan's friends, they slowly start to piece together the mystery of the man who is set to become his stepfather, but they may be too late in getting to the truth. As people who realize the inadequacies of David's story start to mysteriously die or disappear systematically, Michael is convinced his soon-to-be stepfather is behind them. After finding his father's body in the basement, Michael sets out to save his family and girlfriend before they become David's latest victims.Like I said, with the stupid story and unlikable characters come into play, this movie just didn't work. I think it could have had better potential, but it was just too lazy. Hoping the audience is going to just accept that this guy could just waltz into this family without them questioning anything is just crazy. If I were the mom, I would have asked him about his family and when I was going to meet them, after all wouldn't you be curious about your guy's background? Also gotta love that the son who starts to question the guy, his loving and trusting girlfriend just doesn't believe a word he says, I think the dad had to have his hands around her throat before she finally started to think that something wasn't right with him. The lame jump scares also needed to stop with this movie, I hate this stupid cliché. It's like a cheap cop out with the audience and anyone who considers this scary needs to start watching real horror films to see what real suspense truly is. This was just a stupid lame movie that wasted my time. I had hope for it and everything about it just turned into a bad excuse for a horror film.2/10
Roland Emmerich, what can you say about this guy? We love him, we hate him; he makes bad movies, but they're hella entertaining. I don't know what this guy has against the world, but it seems like he likes to blow it up in any way possible. From Independence Day to Godzilla to The Day After Tomorrow, we now have 2012. Which ironically I think it's funny that the director got this totally mixed up. I love to watch the history channel, so I know the whole "myth" around the year 2012, it has nothing to do with the world ending or being shifted. Not to say that this is never going to happen, but it's not set in stone for the year 2012. But 2012, let's go for it, end of the world! Let's talk about the end of the world, Roland Emmerich said in an interview that this is most likely going to be his last adventure movie and if you are going to retire what you're best known for: Go out with a bang! 2012 limits what he shows as the "world" crumbles: Los Angeles has the big earthquake, Yellow Stone National Park gets a volcano, and China has a tycoon come in. That's it! I live in Chicago and it's never mentioned in the film so I can't help but laugh and say "Well, I guess we're safe. I'm just going to look out the window one day confused why penguins are in the back yard".Jackson Curtis is a writer in Los Angeles who works part-time as a limousine driver for wealthy Russian businessman. Jackson's ex-wife Kate and their children Noah and Lily live with her boyfriend, Gordon Silberman. Jackson takes Noah and Lily on a camping trip to Yellowstone National Park, where they meet Charlie Frost, a conspiracy theorist living as a hermit and hosting a radio show from the park. Charlie references a theory that suggests the Mayans predicted the world would come to an end in 2012, and claims he has knowledge and a map of a secret "space ship" project. As evidence for his claims, he notes the suspicious deaths of many scientists who attempted to warn the public before information about the catastrophe was de-classified. The family returns home as cracks develop along the San Andreas Fault in California and earthquakes occur in many places along the west coast. Jackson grows suspicious and rents a plane to rescue his family. He collects his family and Gordon when the Earth's crust displacement begins and they escape Los Angeles as it slides into the Pacific Ocean. As the world collapses around them, they try to fly to China to board a ship meant only for the rich and VIP people of the world that will ensure their survival.While 2012 is entertaining on the special effects level, it's in no way realistic, so the story blew it on any level that I could have had respect for. For God's sake, my friend is in the navy and while we were watching this movie he mentioned how in Washington, DC, the USS Kennedy no longer exists and yet it does in this movie. Another thing, I love John Cussack, but is he the new Arnold Schwartzenegger? For God's sake, it seems like Ronald throws everything at him and yet something he manages to escape at last second for each disaster. My favorite is a tie: either they go to Yellow Stone to find their friend, but when the volcano erupts they drive away while meteors are being thrown at them and even hit's the RV they're driving and somehow it still manages to pull forward. Second being how they're able to fly an airplane over an erupting volcano as it would actually pull them down due to the air clogging the engine. Ronald also picks Danny Glover as president! LMAO! Are you serious?! I was just waiting for him to say "I'm getting to old for this.." when he finds out about the world ending. He and Thandie Newton seemed so out of place for the film.Please don't think that I hated this movie, I was just extremely disappointed, even if we want to be unrealistic on every level, it's OK. I just felt like this was a let down, like I said if Ronald wants to make this his last film, he should just go for it and make the world suffer. Unless he makes another film with him as a giant and just stepping on all the big cities, I'd buy a ticket on the spot. But I fell for it with 2012, it's totally worth it on the big screen just to see the special effects, but it's not going to have the same effect at home. The special effects were the only thing that made this film tolerable, but just a warning in advance, it's 2 and a ½ hours! Way too long, stupid story, bad characters; let's put it this way, if you like disaster movies, this is to be seen on the big screen, otherwise, just skip it.3/10
I wasn't so sure about seeing Bridesmaids, it seems every movie with a female lead in a comedy just doesn't work. But I kept hearing great reviews from friends at work, so my girlfriends and I decided to check it out and see if it was worth the hype, but I went in with an extremely good attitude. However once again my girlfriends say how I'm no fun to take to a chick flick because I just thought this was OK. The beginning of the film seemed so promising, I've been waiting for a movie where it would be like the female Hangover. I was maid of honor at my friend's wedding last year and one thing I didn't realize that came with that package is also that you can get quite a bit of jealousy from others and some real competition. It's amazing how seriously women take bridesmaids positions so seriously, but it'd be a great comedy. The problem is that this film fell back into typical formula and became very predictable.Annie and Lillian have been best friends since their childhood days growing up; when Lillian gets engaged, she asks Annie to be her maid of honor. Lillian also selects four bridesmaids: Helen, the wealthy wife of Lillian's fiancé's boss and new close friend; Becca, a newlywed who loves marriage; Megan, the outgoing sister of the groom; and Rita, a relative who is dissatisfied with her marriage and three sons. While the wedding preparations continue, Annie's personal life is falling apart. Her cake shop went bankrupt, forcing her to take a job at a jewelry store where she is an ineffective saleswoman and makes very little money. She is kicked out of the apartment that she shares with a pair of invasive twins. Despite advice from her friends, Annie is in the midst of a self destructive relationship with a man who only thinks of her as a sex buddy. Annie's chaotic personal life, budget restrictions, and insecurity about Lillian and Helen's friendship begin to take their toll as the wedding draws nearer.I don't want to complain completely about the movie, the main thing that I found very entertaining was the character Megan played by Melissa McCarthy. I think because she felt like the most real character, she was extremely likable. Kristen Wiig is a very good lead and I found her character while annoying at times, very relatable where sometimes it feels like when it rains it pours. Her and Melissa really carried the film well and had the most laughs. I just wished they had also maybe toned the jokes down, there were three jokes that dragged on forever. The engagement party toast competition, it was starting off really funny, but then dragged on a bit. Then the airplane, where Kristen Wiig is high off of a drug and drunk, so you can tell she was improvising but again it went on a little too long and started to get uncomfortable. And then when she was trying to get pulled over, I got the point after the 3rd joke within a joke. I just thought these jokes if edited correctly, it would have gotten a bigger laugh from me.But the one thing I cannot deny is that this film was something special for the audience because the lady next to me was laughing hysterically, annoying a little bit, but maybe I'm just missing something or I have become too harsh on films. Like I said, there are some great laughs, I just felt that the ending lost it into being too predictable and that it should have been more about the competition between the bridesmaids. But I would say this is a solid rental, it was over all very harmless and I would say decent enough comedy especially with Kristen and Megan, they made it worth the watch.5/10
When I saw the rating on IMDb, I wasn't too interested in seeing The Inivisible due to that, not only that, but the trailer didn't seem that interesting as well. But I had a free rental and there wasn't anything else that caught my eye and I just figured to go ahead and give this movie a look. I watched it tonite and I don't understand why there is only a 6.0 rating, I think it should be in the high 6.0 or low 7.0, I've just seen so many worse films that for some reason get a good rating on this website. Trust me, The Invisible is one this year's surprises. The plot is like a new version of Ghost, a little bit of a twist, where we show the ultimate killer, your conscience. When you do something wrong, could you stay strong enough to keep it a secret? That's what The Invisible is about.Nick is a success at school, he gets awesome grades and has lots of friends, he's going places in his future. But when his "best friend" sells him out to a troubled girl, Annie, and puts him in a situation that has nothing to do with him, Annie takes the situation to an ultimate low and almost kills Nick. She hides his body, but Nick is still alive and his spirit is begging her to help him, she's the only one that can hear him, but his time is running out and she's having a hard time dealing with the harsh consequences.The Invisible was a good film, I would highly recommend it. I thought that it was done well and the story was really good. The girl who played Annie was absolutely a perfect cast, I hope to see her in more movies in the future, her performance as Annie was terrific, she doesn't over do the self pity or under do it, she's just right on with the character. Her last scene with Nick actually made me cry, it was so selfless the way these two played it, their chemistry was perfect. I really liked the Invisible, hopefully people will give this movie a better chance, it deserves it.7/10
Iron Man, the huge kick off to the big summer blockbusters of summer 2008, a great start. I have to say that originally I had my concerns, when I saw the trailer, this movie looked way over done and Robert Downy, Jr. as the hero? The guy is a great actor, but as a super hero? I wasn't so sure, but I was able to see Iron Man today and all my doubts were put behind me as I watched. This is one of best comic book adaptations put to film in a very long time, since the original Spider Man I think. The effects were not actually too over the top, only when needed, but it gave that extra feel of a comic book. Robert Downy, Jr., I couldn't believe how well of a performance he pulled off, there still is a little question of his casting, but he pulled off Tony Stark seamlessly. This is a very entertaining action film and is such a great blockbuster that is sure to please any film buff.Tony Stark, rich, handsome, incredibly wealthy, has it all. He also creates war weapons, when he goes to Afghanastan to introduce a new missile, he is captured and told to create the missile for the terrorists. But Tony has other plans, he creates a metal suit and escapes, he goes back home and announces that he wants to retire and close down Stark industries due to the violence he saw. But when he learns that the weapons of his are in the wrong hands, he realizes that maybe he could re-create a metal suit and become Iron Man, the incredible machine to save man kind.Iron Man is a sure fire hit that I'm sure you won't want to miss. It has everything you could want for a comic book film: action, humor, a great cast, romance, and ultimate effects that just get you excited. Even the soundtrack gets you pumped up and ready to root for Iron Man. The only complaint, as much as the action was cool, I wish it wasn't the war on terrorism they used, I know it's part of the story, but it hits so close, that it may seem inappropriate. The climax, a little cliff hanger, but I'm already smelling a sequel for next year probably. But Iron Man is a fun movie that all ages could enjoy, Iron Man is the new Spider Man for 2008! 8/10
A couple years ago we had the release of the re-make Halloween, directed by Rob Zombie, he claimed that it wasn't a re-make as more of his own vision. I was very much looking forward to it and was greatly let down. So when I heard that Rob was working on the sequel, I just laughed and knew I wasn't going to see this movie. But then I saw the trailer for the film and darnit, curse Rob Zombie for feeding my hunger towards scare and gore. The trailer looked so great, I just had to see the sequel, I don't know maybe it had hidden messages saying "see this movie" or something. But I saw Halloween 2 today and once again, I fell for it! Now I think Rob Zombie is a very talented director, his visionary style is incredible, coming from a graphic design background, I admit this movie still has some great and creepy images. He has this knack for these gritty horror films and I believe that down the line his film The Devil's Rejects will be a cult classic. The reason why; despite the fact that The Devil's Rejects is somewhat of an homage to the old gritty dark horror films of the 1970's, it was exactly meant for Zombie as it was his vision that made it into the classic that it will be. Halloween is not meant for Zombie and the reason why is in one word: Simplicity.Simplicity being the reason why this isn't Zombie's picture to mess around with, Michael Myers is evil, no specific reason why, he just is. As we saw in the first movie, Zombie tried giving Myers a soul and it took away the scare more than give it to the audience. He's made Michael Myers into a bum, or at least he looks like one, take for example: The Mask. Myers does not wear the mask for most of the film or at least it's ripped off and we can see a good amount of Myer's face and it's not Michael Myers without the iconic mask. His look for me is just all off as well, I don't see his height as much of something to be bothered by, while his kills are extremely creative and fun to watch on screen, he still didn't do much for me as he looked like a hippie bum with that long black cloak. Zombie also has all his trademarks in this movie, as his love for the 1970's, strippers/boobies, gore, sex, drugs and dirty ugly bums who look like they still haven't figured out that the tooth brush has been invented. But here's Zombie's version of what he thinks the sequel should be.Taking right where we left off from the first film, Laurie has a vicious nightmare that Michael is still after her, but she wakes up. It's one year after all the murders and Laurie is now living with the Bracketts. Michael's body has been missing since last Halloween, presumed dead, and Laurie has been having recurring nightmares about the event. While Laurie deals with her trauma through therapy, Loomis has chosen to turn the event into an opportunity to write another book. Meanwhile, Michael has been seeing visions of his mother's ghost and a younger version of himself, who instructs him that with Halloween approaching it is time to bring Laurie home.Scout Taylor-Compton, this girl, I have no idea why she was picked as the strong female Laurie Strode, because she spent 98.9% of this movie crying, sobbing and blubbering "he'sgonnagetmeeeee! I'mnotwhoyathinkiam!", and how in the heck was I supposed to root for that kind of a female lead? Scout is a lousy actress and the writing was all wrong for the character as well. Another trademark that I forgot to mention earlier that Rob loves putting in his movies, his wife Sherri Moon, pretty woman and over all a talented enough actress. But how in the heck was her role needed in this movie? Zombie is ripping off Psycho by making Myers see his dead mother all over the place saying for him to kill everyone. Again, I like the simplicity of Myers just being born evil with no explanation. Rob Zombie delivers in images and gore, but not in the scares. While the movie has some awesome kills, it's not worthy to add to the collection of Halloween sequels which the first 7 are actually good and worth watching. This was a project that wasn't meant for him nor should have it been for anyone, Halloween should be left alone. With Zombie making this into his vision, he's turned Mike Myers into a bum who dumb people for some odd reason pick a fight with and then get killed in the end and I'm supposed to feel sorry for them? Not likely, just skip it.1/10
My boyfriend and I saw The Number 23 last night and we were pretty excited, because my girlfriend and her boyfriend said it was terrific along with other's who were saying how great of a movie it was. But I did hear from some of the girls I worked with that it wasn't that good or it could be a little predictable. For me at least, my opinion, it was a little over the top, because normally the audience would sympathize with Jim Carrey and his character, because it seems like no one would believe him, but I couldn't find myself believing him; that he was seeing the number 23 and how it all linked together.Walter is a man who has just had his birthday, February 3, February being the second month mixed with three. His wife Agatha recommends a book called "The Number 23" to him, Walter immediately starts to read it and finds himself relating to the character Fingerling a little too much. He finds out there is a curse around the number 23, and everything in his life is adding up to that number. When he finds out that the book ends in a murder, he fears for his wife's life as well as others and his own.Over all, I would say that this is a movie that you'd have to see for yourself, I just wasn't impressed. I couldn't sympathize with the characters and most of the movie was just a little over the top. Not to mention in some ways you can figure out the ending pretty quickly, but I am not going to give it away obviously. The only thing I found extremely funny was at the end of the movie, I checked my cell for a message and it ended at 12:11, creepy, huh? 6/10
Speed Racer, blockbuster number 2 for the summer, based off the popular animated 60's cartoon, the first real "Japanimation" series, we have the now live action film. What was supposed to also be a family film, this film just flops on. First I'll start on the positives: bright colors, exciting effects, and it felt like a cartoon, which is what it meant to bring. However, this movie was overly long, if it's supposed to be for kids, so don't make it into a 2 hour and 15 minute film. Like one of the ending scenes where Speed has all these flash backs of earlier scenes, we didn't need it. Some of the dialog, it was decent but again, could have been shortened. Also, I know that CGI is a thing that will never die, but it's not my cup of tea, because it just takes away something special. But the story does deliver on it's fast paced race scenes.Speed Racer has lived a fast paced life on the road, trying to live up to his "deceased" brother's world of racing. But all these sponsors are coming after him, but he wishes to stay in the family with his dad, mom, little brother, and Tricksey, his girlfriend. With the help of a mysterious Racer X, Speed wishes to beat the sponsors who threw things in his face and just make money off of him, and can just prove that he is the number one racer in the world.Speed Racer, for a summer blockbuster, it's a decent enough film, however it does have it's flaws here and there. Now the one thing I was impressed with is that not only did they make it feel like a cartoon, but it was over all pretty faithful the the original cartoon series, so you get a real feel of the original story. I just think it was a little too long and the CGI was a little too much, it was almost like why did they even need the actors? Everything was probably a green screen, so what's the point in making it with human actors? But this is a fun movie for the kids with the bright colors, it just could have been shorter, because the kids will probably loose attention with the film. But for the 10+ year old's, they'll definitely get into it.5/10
I'm not sure why, but I guess I was interested in seeing the first Hot Shots since my mom only has the sequel and I noticed the movie in Blockbuster, I also love Charlie Sheen in comedies, he works so well in spoofs. Not to mention all in all, I do love spoofs, most work for me. It's just the kind comedy that I like. Hot Shots! proved itself to be a worthy spoof that is more than worth watching. It spoofs Top Gun, An Officer and a Gentleman, 9 1/2 Weeks, Gone with the Wind, Rocky, among many other movies.Topper is a pilot who is wanted back in the navy and falls for a woman, but he has an edge is considered a rebel. Cary Elwes gives him a hard time constantly, especially since his father caused Cary's father to have a freak plane accident. Cary is also in love with Topper's woman and wants revenge.Hot Shots is a great comedy that I have to admit is a guilty pleasure, but it has so much that most comedies lack now a days. It's just a fun innocent movie that deserves a little bit of a higher rating. Charlie Sheen rocks in comedies, although they have destroyed my new favorite guilty pleasure, 9 1/2 Weeks, it's all good.7/10
I was looking forward to seeing Meet the Spartans, from the first few theatrical trailers, it looked like a lot of fun and not like a horrible parody. But I have to admit that when it had it's TV spots, it was starting to look bad, but my boyfriend and I still saw it last night, just to see maybe if it still had some laughs. Now, while I'm still disappointed in most of the movie, there were a few good laughs I think. It was made pretty badly, but I think most spoof movies are made that way since they don't have a sense of reality, so I'll be kind on that subject. Plus, the movie in general was weird, they took on the movie 300, fully, like re-shot the entire film, and just added their own jokes on TV, movies, pop culture, and random things.Leonidas has just been made king of Sparta, and his world is rocking with his bombshell wife, Queen Margo, and life couldn't be better. But when he is challenged by the Persians, he must protect Sparta with, well, only 8 guys. But hoping that "they will survive", they go into a battle of stomping the yard, talking smack, and even having to deal with some transformers. Leonidas is getting more and more steamed though as he realizes that the blue screen Persians may be too much for he and his team can handle.Meet the Spartans had some really funny moments, like I loved and nearly died laughing when the Spartans were leaving their country and they left hand in hand singing "I will Survive", it was so stupid, I know, but if you let go and have fun, I'm sure you'll laugh too. But there were things I was disappointed in, like the constant potty humor, it would be nice if the writers grew past the second grade level humor. There was some jokes that were predictable and used too many times in other spoofs. But over all this was definitely better than Epic Movie or Date Movie. If you go to see this, there are a few laughs, but don't expect the best comedy of the year.4/10
My friend just bought this movie with me at Target and when we got back to her house, she asked me if I ever saw it and I said no, she just handed it to me and said to watch it and that it was a really good movie. Even though I wasn't too interested, I decided to go ahead and watch it. I just watched it tonite and I have to say that I was really impressed with how well thought out this excellent thriller was.Ryan is just a normal average guy who is driving to pick up some shirts in an attempt to get his ex back, but his cell phone rings and on the other line there is a woman, Jessica, who is crying and begging for him to take his phone to a police officer and that she has been kidnapped. Ryan gets himself involved deeply when he takes deep risks trying to help Jessica and her family from being killed.Cellular is a great thriller that I would highly recommend for anyone, it had great suspense, good acting, and a terrific and original plot that film lover could enjoy. I would also like to take this moment to thank my friend for showing me this excellent movie. :D I know this isn't an Oscar speech, just had to get that out.7/10
When I first saw the trailer for Prom Night, I have to admit, the trailer looked good and like this would be a fun horror movie. So my friend and I saw Prom Night last night and I have to say I must be growing up because this was such a ridicules film, not to mention I am so sick and tired of the typical horror slasher movies with the loud noises as an excuse to scare people. There was no tension, the characters, how was I supposed to care about them? They had no development what-so-ever, the killer?! Oh, my God, this was very possibly the most stupid serial killer that has ever existed, I know it's a film, but why would a man who never(or at least we know of) killed any one before, kill a girl's family and friends that he's just obsessed over? I mean, was he going to kidnap her or was he going to kill her? I have no idea, because this film made no sense and is too predictable and insulting to true fans of horror.Donna's family was just brutally murdered by her teacher, who has become very obsessed over her, he was captured and put in jail. It's been 3 years and she's just now getting some peace in her life, she's even going to her senior prom. But the killer has escaped and still has Donna on his mind, he follows her to her prom which means bad news for her friends, and the hotel maid, and the bell boy, because it is such a good idea to kill the maid and bell boy so no one become suspicious enough to check to see where these employee's are. Donna is in big trouble because also this killer who is clearly human can apparently get into houses un-noticed and can kill people so silently, just, wow.I'm sorry, I really did want to love this movie, we haven't had a good slasher flick in a long time, but this was just a stupid movie that I was not impressed with. Just the situations were unbelievable and the actors were obnoxious. I know that this was a PG-13 movie, but I just love how someone was brutally stabbed to death and they only have just a little blood on their clothes? Not to mention no stab holes? I wouldn't recommend this movie for anyone unless you're a teen, this movie was made for the teenagers, not adults, and not for those who know a real horror movie, no offense to those who did enjoy this film, but I don't understand how anyone could.2/10
I had absolutely no interest in seeing Star Wars: The Clone Wars from the first time I saw the trailer, I just couldn't believe my eyes, has George really sunk this low? It's bad enough that we had a really shaky sequel from him and director legend Steven Spielberg that brought us Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull, you could tell at that point already, that was more for money than for the fans. Now we have Star Wars: The Clone Wars, I remember the first time I saw the original Star Wars, I was a little girl, I watched it with my dad, now this was back in 1989 when I was 4 years old, but there was something so magical about that movie that I still enjoy watching it from time to time, and it wasn't animated. Now we have the animated Star Wars that was definitely more aimed for the little one's than the adults or die hard fans of the famous trilogy. I don't know what to say to George other than, please, don't do this, you've done so well, quit while you're ahead of the game.As the Jedi Knights prepare for the battles of the galaxy, Anakin Skywalker is assigned to train Ahsoka Tano, who wants to be a Jedi. They are both assigned to get Jabba the Hut's infant son who has been kidnapped by the Separatists who are setting the Jedi's up to make it look like they were the one's who kidnapped Jabba's son and are trying to kill him. Anakin and Ahsoka have only one chance to fix this while trying to save Jabba's son and figure a way to convince Jabba that they are not at fault, Anakin must face off with Captain Rex to regain his trust back with Jabba.Star Wars: The Clone Wars isn't by any means a bad movie, but if you are going to line it up with the other Star Wars movies, oh, yeah, it will disappoint you. Like I said, this was more for the kids, not to mention, I think George is just doing whatever he can to leak the Star Wars franchise for all it's worth. But in my opinion, I will always love to watch the three original Star Wars movies, the prequels, I did like the Syth, but like I said, the first three have that special touch that will never be matched up with any of these recent Star Wars movies, but of course if you are a die hard fan, I know you will see this, otherwise I'll say stick with a matinée or go for the rental, this was a flop compared to what it should have been, nice try, George, we didn't buy it this time.5/10
I have been looking forward to Date Night because it seems like every romantic comedy we have stars the little youngsters that are so lame and don't provide any laughs. Steve Carrell and Tina Fey are absolutely hilarious and two of the best comedic actors in the business today. So my boyfriend and I finally checked the movie out today at the theater and had an absolute blast. It's good that we finally got a funny romantic comedy, most are so cheesy and have lame jokes, but we got a good couple with chemistry and made the movie work so well. The story could have been a total joke, but again because of the actors you could tell how much fun they had making this and that makes it even more enjoyable for the audience. While the story still has a couple of flaws, I really had a good time watching Date Night.Phil and Claire Foster are a married couple with two children whose domestic life has become routine. They have a weekly "date night" at a local steakhouse followed by a movie, but it is just as routine as everything else in their marriage. To reignite romance, Phil takes Claire to a trendy Manhattan restaurant, but they can't get a table. Phil decides to take a reservation from a no-show couple. Halfway through their meal, they are approached by two men, who question them about a flash drive they believe Phil and Claire stole from mobster boss Joe Miletto. Phil and Claire try to explain that they are not the couple they're after, but the two men threaten them at gunpoint. They escape and go to the police station, Phil and Claire talk with Detective Arroyo but discover that the two dangerous men are also detectives, presumably on Miletto's payroll. Realizing they can't trust the police, they decide to find the real "Tripplehorns", the couple they stole the reservation from and try to figure all this out before their night of evening and romance turns into them having cement booties and swimming with the fishies.Date Night was definitely worth the watch, but I would recommend it more for a rental. Most romantic comedies are that way, no big special effects or break through performances. But Tina and Steve are awesome together. One of my favorite scenes that I'm sure you'll get a kick out too, Phil and Claire steal on of their friend's cars and goes into a huge car chase and accidentally crashes into a taxi. The cars get stuck on each other and as they have this huge car chase they have to drive while being stuck together, the taxi driver's reaction was absolutely hilarious. There are bloopers at the end were also a bonus as you wonder how some of the actors can keep a straight face during these funny scenes. The only flaw being that it was a bit predictable and there was one scene that kept going to the point where it got uncomfortable, Phil and Claire have a scene where they're dancing on a stripper pole and at first it's funny, but it does go on a little too long. But they're forgivable flaws and I would recommend Date Night, it was very funny and an absolute pleasure to watch, I hope Fey and Carrell do more work together, they are awesome.7/10
Despite some bad reviews of Miami Vice that I heard from my friends, I decided to check it out anyways, I mean, everyone has different tastes and I didn't know if I would like it or not. I was really young, in fact, a new born, when the series hit it's peak of popularity. But my mom and dad would watch it every once in a while and I remember some reruns when I was a kid and I loved how much of a bright and cool series Miami Vice was. And let's face it, Miami Vice is nothing without shoulder pads, bright colors, cheesy lines, and Don Johnson! I'll explain in a moment why I didn't enjoy Miami Vice and why people should probably stay away from it.Sonny and Ricco, in an updated version(sad, isn't it?) of Miami Vice, with cool cars, cell phones, and sleazy clothing that made Collin Ferrel look like a sleazy child molester, we get involved in their personal lives and now they have to go undercover for a sleazy drug lord, but they get deeper than they thought, especially when Sonny falls for one of the women that they are doing business with. But of course, you can figure out from what I just described where the story is pretty much going.Miami Vice the show was a bright, funny, and witty TV series that everyone loved because of how cheesy it was and how it didn't take itself so seriously, but Miami Vice the movie took the story and made it dark and just wasn't needed. Like I said in the title, there are so many movies out there that deserve a better budget, and this movie somehow because some big name stars are in it, just get bigger salaries. Miami Vice is very confusing and not worth your time, just stick to the fun TV Series, it's nothing with the shoulder pads! 3/10
I never had no interest in seeing Cheaper By The Dozen, despite how much I'm enjoying my Steve Martin movies, I cannot stand Hilary Duffy, she annoys the heck out of me. Sad and shallow I know, but hey, we've all been there with an actor or actress. This Cheaper By The Dozen also took a different twist on the original and you can tell that this wasn't faithful the true story, but that's OK, I understand with the whole "family film" generation of today.The parents in this film are a bit different, they are trying to have two careers, especially successful one's. But obviously, that's going to be hard since the kids are having a hard time moving to a new town for their dad's job. Despite having more money and a bigger house, the kids aren't excepted at school and the parents are busier with their jobs, especially since mom is on a trip in New York, she leaves the kids with Dad for a couple weeks! You can in some ways understand why Ashton Kutcher was uncredited and this movie had some really really... really predictable moments of a typical family film in today's Hollywood, but Steve Martin really did make the film work. Although, I'm not sure if I was supposed to feel more sorry for the parents than those kids because quite frankly, a lot of those kids were brats! 6/10
Ah, the sixth installment into the Harry Potter franchise, the Harry Potter series has sort of become the new contender for the biggest geek following since Star Wars, although Lord of the Rings is pretty darn close as well, lol. But honestly, even though I haven't read the books, I do enjoy the movies, they're pretty fun. So when I saw the trailer for The Half Blood Prince, I was really excited because this looked so much more darker than the previous movies. As we grow up, so does Harry, he's going through major changes in his life and most of his readers/audience are experiencing similar things with him when it comes to love and confusion on what their lives are about. But is the series getting a little too dark? It seemed like this was the story that focused more on the romance of the students vs. the magic and the dark world they are facing. Speaking of which, there is blood in this movie, not to mention some pretty frightening moments that may have made this Harry Potter movie a bit more hard to accept.Ron scans the obituary pages of the Daily Prophet, looking for familiar names. Dumbledore is absent from Hogwarts for long stretches of time, and the Order of the Phoenix has already suffered losses. As in all wars, life goes on. Sixth-year students learn to Apparate - and lose a few eyebrows in the process. The Weasley twins expand their business. As the magical hormone crazed teenagers flirt and fight and fall in love. Classes are never straightforward, though Harry receives some extraordinary help from the mysterious Half-Blood Prince. So it's the home front that takes center stage in the multi layered sixth installment of the story of Harry Potter. Here at Hogwarts, Harry will search for the full and complex story of the boy who became Lord Voldemort - and thereby find what may be his only vulnerability.I would say that over all The Half Blood Prince is worth the watch in the theater, since the effects are always incredible, to say the least with what's been released this year in theater, Harry Potter was a fresh breath of air. The effects, the acting, the direction, everything like that was perfectly fine, but for some odd reason, this Harry Potter seemed a little off. I think the reason being is that this was more talk vs. action. The more boring side of Potter if you will without sounding too harsh. I think it's also a little weird to accept these young actors growing up and it seems like they are doing it right before our eyes. But it's all part of life; from what I hear this was a disappointment if you read the book, which I'm sure you've already seen this movie if you read the book, but I was still pretty disappointed over all. I think it could've been a little bit better, but I'm sure the last two sequels will be the best seeing how they are saved for the last.7/10
I had no interest after viewing the theatrical trailer, the movie looked so lame, but my friend rented the movie and said it was decent, so I figured maybe I should take a look and see what it was about before I make any judgments, guess what? My judgments were totally right! You remember the movie The Craft? Do remember how the effects were very real looking and so cool to look at? Well, the effects are completely obvious and more annoying, not to mention the acting was just plain horrible.These boys are part of an old covenant that goes back generations to their ancestors. One of them is about to "ascend", I assume that means more power, for boys that's a bad thing, believe me since they are using their powers to look up girl's skirts. Well, guess what? One of the boys is jealous of the main guy, Caleb, since he's going to ascend before him. To get to Caleb he will use Caleb's girlfriend to give him all the powers that he possesses, oh, boys will be boys, you know? The plot made no sense, nor do I think you would want to understand it. I'm glad to see I'm not the only one with sense on IMDb to see that this movie definitely needed more work, it could have had some potential, maybe as a sequel to The Craft, but I guess that would've ruined it, right? Just stick to The Craft, believe me when I say you'll thank me, stay away from The Convenant.3/10
I honestly have wanted to see Coyote Ugly for a while and I finally thought of it when I was renting some movies, so I just watched it on Friday night and while I could predict every second of this movie, I have to admit, it's still a fun movie that I think anyone could get a little kick out of. It's a cool teen movie with fun music, hot actors, and one of those "tubular Dawson's Creek" stories. But I thought it had it's moments that made it an enjoyable movie, especially the girls dancing, they provided some fun entertainment. It had a couple laughs here and there, but it was more of a drama type of teen movie.Violet is a young song writer who has big dreams of going to New York and getting her songs published and sung. But of course, she goes with very big disappointments ahead of her. She gets tricked into giving her tape to a guy, with a pretty corny accent by the way, Kevin, and he is fascinated with her. But she's making no money and goes to a sexy bar where girls dance and tease guys while they bar tend, but her dignity has been stripped away while making tons of money, and her career takes the back seat, oh, will she realize the error of her ways and follow her heart back to Kevin? I guess you will just have to see.The acting is pretty corny and so is the story, but it's all good, for a teen movie, it's a fun one that I think people need to give a better chance too. It has sexy actors and is everything any teen drama fan would like! Lol, well, all I can say is just to sit back and enjoy, don't be too judgmental, this was a cool movie and had it's entertaining moments, as silly as it was, I'm sure you'll like this movie if you let go of all you know that is movie knowledge and might just find yourself dancing along to Coyote Ugly.6/10
I've seen some bad films, you name it, some of the worst: Bio-Dome, Gigli, 10,000 BC, The Love Guru, Kazaam, etc. But Miss March makes my new top 10 of the worst. I cannot believe this, I saw the trailer for Miss March when it was being released in the theater and thought it actually looked very funny. It's actually got a very clever story in the sense where it could have been a great sex comedy. But everything about this film misfired and I ended up watching total trash. Let's start with the characters, Tucker is very possibly one of cinema's most obnoxious characters. I'm not talking like Stiffler from American Pie obnoxious where it actually gets funny again, I mean he's just terrible. He sexually harasses women and somehow has a girlfriend in the film who has to be the most stupid woman on Earth to think that any part of him is attractive. He drags his decent best friend down the drain with him and causes nothing but trouble. Basically a mentally deficient sea turtle with 1 leg has more life goals than Tucker did. Craig Robinson who is actually a funny actor falls flat on his face doing this stupid movie. The only likable character is our lead played by Zach Cregger, and he is made to look like a dork.Eugene and Tucker are 18 years old high school students and best friends, about to graduate. Tucker continually checks out girls and makes perverted remarks while Eugene is still disgusted and tells Tucker to cut it out as he now has a girlfriend and feels uncomfortable checking out other girls. Eugene climbs up a tree and sits outside his girlfriend Cindi's window and proclaims his love for her. Cindi asks if they are finally going to have sex but Eugene firmly states no. Eugene then realizes his mistake and calls her and promises her that they will have sex at the party after the prom. After the prom, the group all heads over to the party. Cindi tells Eugene that she will meet Eugene upstairs in five minutes. Tucker decides to solve Eugene's nervousness by getting him totally drunk. Eugene gets really drunk and ends up falling down the stairs. Eugene wakes up in a hospital and is confused so Tucker explains. When Eugene fell down the stairs, he blacked out and fell into a coma for four years. Curious where Cindi is, Tucker discovers that she's Miss March in Playboy. Wanting to see her again, Tucker gets into some trouble and breaks Eugene out of the hospital and goes to find Miss March for an explanation on where she's been since his coma.Miss March is one of the most vile films I have ever seen, it's just utter trash. I had high hopes because when I started watching the movie I got a couple of chuckles, but as soon as Tucker woke Eugene out of his coma with a bat, I think that was more of a metaphor for what the director wanted to do to his audience, I lost all respect for this movie. Also Hugh Hefner's performance was possibly the most unbelievable thing in the world as if we are supposed to believe that he would sit with a crazy pervert like Tucker and share his "touching" story of love. Love advice from Hugh Hefner is like getting a heart transplant by Stevie Wonder, you love the guy but wouldn't exactly want him to be performing the surgery. If you think this movie is honestly funny, what medication are you taking and could I have some too? The acting is awful, the direction is flimsy, the characters were just horrible people. If they had toned Tucker down a bit with his annoying flaws and kept the movie's focus more on Eugene, this movie would have been much better. I'm sorry that I wasted my time with it, it was just bad, I feel like I'm wasting my time with this review as I want to forget this film, but I do need to warn the public to stay away from Miss March.1/10
Three generations of great actors, the old: Marlon Brando, the established: Robert DeNiro, and the new: Edward Norton. Three of my top actors in a movie together? I couldn't resist renting the movie at all, didn't even read what the movie was about. But I hate to say this, I ended up being disappointed. The Score is definitely by no means a bad movie, the acting is decent and the story is something different from every clichéd heist movies that we've seen with a lot of violence or car chases. This was more of a character study vs. your typical action movie. The main problem though is that it's a bit slow paced, as incredible as these actors are, even they didn't look to interested in this film. They looked tired, which what I was after I saw this movie.Nick Wells is a top of his game heist man, he performs his last heist and barely escapes. When Nick presents his stolen jewelry to Max Baron, his employer and fence, he learns that the money man who was supposed to pay him for it is now deceased. To make matters worse, Max does not have a replacement buyer. What he does have is an inside contact at the customs house where a rare, centuries old scepter is stored that would fetch enough to pay Nick $6 million for stealing it. Nick is ready to retire from the business in part because his flight attendant girlfriend Diane will not move in with him unless he quits his criminal escapades. She makes it clear that she will not be worrying about having to talk to him through a glass partition. Brian is Max's inside contact, who works as a janitor in the customs building. He has the building blueprints, including the underground sewer system, and knows where the scepter is being held. Brian has people overlook him because he assumes the role of a mentally handicapped worker. Because of this the guards and co-workers tend to dismiss his odd behavior, which includes being in certain places where he does not belong. Brian and Nick don't get along and when Nick sends his bodyguard to teach him a lesson, we find that Brian is not the lightweight bozo that he appears.Now I wanted to love this film, I really did, like I said, you see this cast you automatically assume that it's going to equal gold. Sometimes I guess that's not always true, you really do need the script that's well written and the actors really have to embrace the movie as well. I would say that if you want to see The Score, be prepared for more of a drama vs. a typical action heist movie. I think it should have just been trimmed down a bit and Frank Oz, who is a great director when given the right script, I'm not sure if this was a movie that was meant for him to make. The tone felt a little uneven at times; but with the sets, the actors, the over all story, The Score is a mild recommendation for me.6/10
I really had no interest in seeing Invincible, but my friend's father who knows I'm a huge film buff, he recommended seeing Invincible and lent it to me. My friend and I watched it together and while both of us were not really into this movie, but we actually did agree that it was a good movie. It was really well made and Mark actually did a decent job of acting, he really made Vince Papale inspirational and a lovable character. See, I'm not really a football fan, so the movies to me are kinda boring at times, but I have to admit that it was a good movie.Vince Papale is a bar tender and part time summer school teacher, his wife just left him with nothing but a divorce. The bar that he works at with a nice Giants fan girl and his friends recommend that he tries out for The Philidelphia Eagles who have had a terrible loosing streak. But the new coach, Dick Vermeil, believes in Vince and takes a huge risk by letting an unknown on the team. But it turns out to be the best risk that took them straight to the top.Invicible is a good movie, I really could never deny that. Because the acting and the story were over all pretty good. I would recommend this film for anyone, like I said I'm not a football fan, but it's an enjoyable film that I'm glad that I saw at least once. You might just want to give it a shot, what do you have to loose, right? I'm pretty sure that Philidelphia Eagles fans are definitely going to get a kick out of this movie! 7/10
Despite some pretty poor reviews of Basic Instinct 2, I figured that since I loved the first Basic Instinct, to give the second one a chance. I love Sharon Stone and she was so beautiful and dangerous in the first movie, why not give the sequel a chance? While it felt just like the first plot did, I thought it was actually over all a good mind f word thriller. I thought the acting wasn't too bad and the story worked, although I have to admit the psychiatrist screaming at the end was a little over the top, but it was a fun movie to watch.Catherine is back and while her and an athlete are in a car getting stoned and having sex, they crash and Catherine gets out in time, but the athlete does not. Catherine is under investigation for murder of the athlete, but since there is not enough evidence for the investigation, so she goes to a psychiatrist, Dr. Glass. But soon he finds himself being seduced into Catherine's world of sex, drugs, and murder, and he's starting to like it! Basic Instinct 2 is a pretty good thriller and I think people were expecting too much, or at least what the first Basic Instinct was, but believe me, on it's own, the sequel is a fair story that deserves a little more praise. Come on, I know IMDb users have seen a lot worse, and it's Sharon Stone! How could you hate Sharon? That excludes Catwoman, but still! 6/10
OK, I know that The Game Plan was very cheesy and extremely predictable, but who cares? What were people expecting? It's Disney, it's supposed to be this kind of a film. I saw The Game Plan with my friend yesterday and we both liked it, we got a few laughs from it and it was over all a well made movie. We were both very impressed with the little actress, Madison Pettis, who played The Rock's daughter, she was incredibly believable and didn't over do her role or was too cute that it made you sick. The script may not be Oscar material, but it was perfect for a family film and the story while it may not be the most original, still had it's funny and touching moments.Joe is a quarterback on Boston's football team and they are about to go to the championships. His personal life is usual the same each night, party all night with his buds and party all night with the good looking women. But all that changes when there's a stranger at the door, a little girl who claims to be his daughter, her name is Peyton and that she's his daughter from a short marriage he had. With his expensive home and party life style, Joe may need to make some changes to his life, as hard as that may be. But he ends up gaining something more in the end, a loving daughter to call him "daddy".Like I said, this is a Disney film, don't expect Oscar worthy material, it's just a fun little family flick. No one will ever get sick of the "big guy with muscles" trying to relate to the little one's, just look at Kindergarten Cop or The Pacifier, both films were good and have a lot of fans. Besides if someone can tell me the honest truth that they were not laughing at The Rock's allergic reaction to cinnamon and started speaking like Daffy Duck, they really must not have a funny bone in their body. The Game Plan is the perfect family film for the season, it's a cute film.7/10
So I made the fun mistake of buying not only the first Human Centipede, as I was expecting something good, but with that I bought the sequel. I decided to give the sequel a chance as the director said this time that he was just going for good fun and the film was "100% inaccurate". At least being honest this time, I figured I should check it out still. Well, given Six some credit, he definitely went all out for this one and really "upped" the gore factor. While the first film I did not get grossed out at all, I have to admit that there are some cringe worthy moments in this one.In the tollbooth of a parking garage in rainy London, Martin Lomax  a short, obese, asthmatic man is watching The Human Centipede on his laptop computer. Martin is obsessed with the film and he keeps a centipede in a glass terrarium and maintains a detailed scrapbook of the film. Martin is intent on recreating the fictional experiment of connecting people mouth-to-anus but desires to connect 12 people. Martin acquires a dingy, dimly-lit warehouse. He begins abducting people from the car park to use as "segments" by knocking them unconscious with a crowbar, then binding their hands and feet with tape and driving them to the warehouse. Once Martin has his twelve victims, he begins assembling his centipede. But how far will he go to make the ultimate centipede? Well, if you've seen the first film, at least Six isn't claiming this one to be "medically accurate".The good parts of this film is the performance by Laurence R. Harvey who plays Martin, the villain behind this centipede. Just like the first one, the villain is who we really get into. He's despicable, horrifying and just plain dirty and unforgiving. He tortures his victims horrifically and does not let go of your nerves. He's scary to look at and just makes you uncomfortable the whole way through. Also I give much credit on the black and white, it was more disturbing in that factor. I don't know, but black and white always seemed creepier to me because it's much darker. This film has a very dirty feeling to it as the first one has a more surgical clean cut to it.The bad, where do I start? First off, I think the director really is full of himself. I totally get what he was going for in this film where he is telling his critics not to take him seriously, but it's almost like he doesn't want you to like his movies and is just plain going out to tick people off. I don't mind if you want to gross people out, but that doesn't make it a good film or unforgettable, it just makes it stupid at times. Also I'm happy the gore factor was lifted big time with this sequel, but there were some things that were not necessary and makes you wonder how much love Tom Six got as a baby since he has a man raping a woman with barbed wire wrapped around his penis. He has people not just defecating in each other's mouths, but actually putting diarrhea into it. Then to top it off, he has a mother give birth to a baby and she crushes the baby's skull. Then at the end, we're left with a "was it real or not?" conclusion which to me was a cop out with this movie. Like the first film, there are good points and there are bad one's. Now if you hated the first film, you're going to hate this one too. If you liked the first movie, you might get a kick out of the sequel. Tough call, but I'm going to go take a couple showers.4/10
Horror movies of today, why are most of them PG-13? Why are we relying on the "loud noise" factor to scare us? Why is everything now always "based on a true story"? Is it supposed to make it that much scarier? But when I saw the trailer for The Haunting in Connecticut, it actually sent chills down my spine. I never had the opportunity to see it in the theater, so I did the rental and to be honest I'm glad I didn't see this in the theater for one reason, the loud noises. Seriously, I watched this in the dark with the volume turned up and I can't tell you how many years this movie possibly took off my life with every single skip that my heart beat took. The Haunting in Connecticut is not a bad movie by no means, it's a fun ghost story, definitely gave me the creeps in a few scenes. While I'm a little "iffy" on some of the effects, this was an effective story. I just wish they would stop pulling the "based on true events" crud, because you know that if this really did happen, Hollywood emphasizes, the person was emphasizing, the person was crazy, or the person was definitely looking to fill up their wallet during the writing of this script.Matthew Campbell is being treated for cancer on a trial therapy in a remote hospital. After seeing the effect the long commute has on Matt, his mother rents a nearby house, which she learns was previously a funeral home. They discover a mortuary room in the basement that they are unable to enter initially. The family begins experiencing violent, supernatural events that the parents first blame on stress and hallucinations from Matt's medications and treatment. Matt also experiences several disturbing visions of a séance from the point of view of a young man named Jonah and witnesses a doctor inscribe runes onto the skin of a corpse. They investigate the house's past, and discover the previous owner, Doctor Aickman, conducted séances in the house, using his assistant Jonah as a medium, who convinced many skeptics of his abilities. Doctor Aickman and his guests all died during one of the séances, and Jonah went missing. But things keep getting worse as the family descends into the house's madness.Over all I did like the movie, it had a very decent story, but of course it has it's flaws. The father is an alcoholic, now I admit that he was intense to watch, but it didn't further the story by any means, so it didn't have much of a point. The ghost coming out of Johah's mouth that we see on the DVD cover was a bit cheesy, it just looked like one of those fans that are blowing ribbons around and makes the ends flap like crazy. Also I think this would have been a bit more scary with less noise and more Rated R adult content. But I have to admit that this did have some very effective scares, like Matthew's descent into madness. A scene that was so subtle but was perfect on the scares was when Matthew is in the funeral room and he puts his little brother on a metal table that was used for autopsies and starts spinning the boy around and around and to see the look on Matthew's face was extremely creepy. So to finish this up, the acting was OK, the story despite it's not being so original as The Amityville Horror is still pretty creepy, the effects could have used some work, the loud noises need to be cut down a notch, I'm just going to say this is worth the watch for a rental, but just don't expect too much.5/10
I grew up watching The Simpsons, one of the episodes that is a classic favorite of mine has a little parody of Village of the Damned they called The Bloodening, lol. I always thought it was supposed to be a parody of Children of the Corn, but then I was watching 100 Scariest Movie Moments on Bravo and Village of the Damned came on and then the light bulb went on that this was the story the Simpsons made fun of. But I was so memorized by what scenes they were showing that I had to find this movie and watch it, I finally found it online last night and I absolutely loved this movie. This is one of the creepiest horror movies I have ever seen, so many people who always told me that creepy kids scare them, I never understood why until I saw this film last night, it gave me nightmares. Granted, I know that it's cheesy and you can easily MST3K your way through it, but watching this in the dark with those creepy glowing eyes is an image I will never get out of my head.In the small English village of Midwich everybody and everything falls into a deep, mysterious sleep for several hours in the middle of the day. Some months later every woman capable of child-bearing is pregnant and the children that are born out of these pregnancies seem to grow very fast and they all have the same blond hair and strange, penetrating eyes that make people do things they don't want to do.Village of the Damned is a very memorable film and just scared the living day lights out of me. I would highly recommend this for any one who truly appreciates film, because it is cheesy in some aspects, I think it takes a certain person to really understand this film and in the time it was made. The way these kids looked was just beyond disturbing, they looked alike, sounded alike, and acted alike. Those voices were so light, care free, it just got into your head that these kids had no boundaries and that's what's scary, you know that if a child has those powers, there would be no adults in this world. Village of the Damned is a terrific horror film, I highly recommend it, watch it in the dark, it's a lot of fun.9/10
When I watched 8 MM, I didn't know what to expect, but I noticed that Joel Schumacher directed it and I am a fan of his. Also it stars two other terrific actors like Nicholas Cage and Joaquin Phoenix, so usually that equals a great film. 8 MM turned out to be a terrific dark drama that I'm not so sure that I understand it's low rating. I was actually expecting it to be in the 7.0 range when I went to check it out on IMDb, but it's in the low 6.0's. I understand that it's an extremely dark movie that not too many people would wanna take a look at, but for what it was, I thought it was great. It took us into the deep dark world of porn and what some sick people get off on. It's not just about that, but also it takes us into a detective type of drama that makes it into a scary type of thriller.Tom Welles is a detective that is given a strange short movie called a "snuff film", where a beautiful young girl is being brutally raped and then murdered on film. While it's supposed to be fake, it looks incredibly real and terrifying. Her relative asks him to find out wither it is fake or real and if she's still alive. This means he has to go deep into a world of brutal porn that is out of his league. With the help of a porn salesman, Max, they go to find out if this girl is really alive or not, but end up getting into some serious trouble when the directors and "actors" find out about them.8 MM is in no way for the faint of heart, there are some extremely disturbing images that I really wouldn't like to see again, I'm sure most wouldn't either, but this is a great dark drama that I would recommend for a watch. Nicholas did a great job, but Joaquin really takes the show here. He made his character incredibly believable and almost sympathetic. Joel really made me believe the story, he shot it wonderfully and didn't over do anything. I would recommend this film for a watch, it's a great thriller that is impressive as well as scary.8/10
After a stressful day, I needed a good comedy to lighten up my mood and I had been hearing a lot of good things on Ghost Town. So I saw it last Sunday, over all I think it was a pretty funny comedy, although I wasn't laughing as hard as the other audience members, but I had a nice time watching it, I think the reason why was due to how predictable it was. For example... the lead character can talk to ghosts, what do we constantly see in ghost movies? The character who can see or speak to ghosts looks crazier because they talk to the ghosts right in front of people who obviously can't see or hear the ghosts. The story was also a typical romantic comedy that wasn't really original. But one thing I was impressed with this movie was how strong Ricky Gervais held his own as a male lead, with Greg Kinnear, they made a good match. They both had great comedic timing and looked like they had a great time making this movie.Bertram Pincus doesn't have the best social skills when it comes to life... he constantly pushes people away, he's a dentist who doesn't care for his patients or co-workers, and he just wants to be left alone. Well, for what is a routine surgery, he dies for a few minutes, but is brought back to life. Later on he discovers that he can see and hear ghosts, as soon as they hear this, they go on a rampage to get him to talk to their loved one's they left behind to cross over with making sure their family is taken care of. But one specific ghost, Frank, wants Bert to talk to his widow who's with a guy he doesn't approve of, but of course Bert socializes with her realizing that maybe needing people isn't so bad and that love can be found once again.Ghost Town is worth the look, but I would recommend it more so for a matinée or a rental, it's a cute movie, just doesn't have a real comedic edge in my opinion. But it does have some good laughs in it and a nice story that will make you smile. But there is another problem I have, Bert gets hit by a bus... he is revived by Frank's wife's ex-fiancée, by C.P.R.? You get hit by a bus, you should be splattered into pieces, but instead all apparently it takes is C.P.R. and you'll be just fine. Sorry for the spoiler, but if anyone who saw this movie read this, I wonder if you agree as well? I know it's a movie, but geez, call this beyond unrealistic. Over all, it's a nice movie, but it didn't thrill me, it's good for a couple laughs, that's about it.6/10
Back in 2000 when the sequel to Fantasia was released, I have to admit that I didn't see the film just because I thought why would they try to upstage the ultimate Disney classic? Fantasia was what truly introduced me to classical music, I think for any child it's the same way. What beauty, what magic it brought and made you close your eyes afterwards whenever you listened to classical music. But it seems like my generation always feels the need to up the bar a bit and try to compete with the original. I bought Fantasia and Fantasia 2000 on the double disc when Disney re-released it. Fantasia brought back so many wonderful memories I had a child and still brings the same charm that I felt as if I watched it for the first time. I was scared that Fantasia 2000 was going to destroy it, but to my surprise, with its small flaws, this was actually a great update. 60 years after the original Fantasia, Fantasia 2000 was meant to revitalize Walt Disney's goal of a constantly evolving film, with new segments. They decide to keep The Sorcerer's Apprentice, with seven new shorts. Angular, abstracted butterfly-like shapes fly through the air in Beethoven's Symphony; computer-animated whales take flight in Respighi's Pines of Rome; Al Hirschfeld's caricatures of New York life come alive in George Gershwin's Rhapsody in Blue; Hans Christian Andersen's The Steadfast Tin Soldier is retold with computer animation against Dmitri Shostakovich's Piano Concerto, Allegro, Opus 102; frantic flamingos try to stop their yo-young comrade in Camille Saint-Saëns' Carnival of the Animals, Finale; Donald and Daisy Duck play Noah and his wife trying to manage the ark to Sir Edward Elgar's Pomp and Circumstance; and the cycle of life, death, and rebirth are celebrated in Stravinsky's Firebird Suite.While some of the drawings were a little pedestrian and I felt that some of the stories they decided not to go with were completely awesome and that they should have gone with those, the animators still did a great job. Was I upset with The Sorcerer's Apprentice being left in? Not really; I thought it was fun to see it on the screen again and I think if it's not broken, don't fix it. It must have been fun nostalgia to see it on the big screen and makes me regret not seeing this film in the theater. But still, I'm glad that I gave the movie a fair chance. But I think it could have done without the celebrity cameos. I understand what influence the original film had on Hollywood, but it doesn't mean that we need the celebrities to introduce the segments. I preferred seeing the musicians, it also showed their true love for the film that they are creating. My favorite segment is a tie between the whales and the cycle of life and death. The whales were so astonishing, the way the animation was created around them, it felt like I was flying with them, it was incredible. I kept a smile on my face the whole time I was watching it. Life and Death again was flowing so eloquently, it was impossible not to feel the tension and relief during this segment. The animators worked very hard and created another masterpiece, while it's not as strong as the original I still highly recommend Fantasia 2000.8/10
I was extremely hesitant about picking up Running With Scissors at Blockbuster the other night, because after seeing the disappointing rating on IMDb, I thought this was just going to be one of those pointless dramas that would be impossible to like. But something just told me to give this film a chance, it had an excellent cast and an interesting plot, so my boyfriend and I went ahead and rented it and watched it last night. I have to say that I was very disappointed, mostly on the reviews here on IMDb, why such a low rating? I'm not sure, because there were only a few tiny flaws that I found in this film, but they were quick to pass on, because the acting and story telling in Running with Scissors was very good. I think the thing that might help with that is because I could relate to it on some level, which sounds wacky, but from my family background, it felt good to know there was someone else out there who was going through the exact same situation.Deirdre Burroughs is an extremely loving mother to her son, Augustine, she lets him stay home from school whenever he wants and plays with him all the time. She's also a failed writer; when she goes to a therapist about her failing marriage, the doctor, Dr. Finch, doesn't really help, but actually makes her husband run away from her. Leaving Deidre alone, she feels like she needs to be alone and leaves Augustine with Dr. Finch's wacky family that lacks discipline or even sanity. But he's determined to figure himself out and how he could possibly lead a normal life after this.Running with Scissors in my opinion was a great film, I didn't see much wrong with it. I thought the acting was terrific, especially on Benning and Fiennes part, they really took the film for me. When Deirdre has her over dose and starts to see snow in the room, Annette made her character so believable and almost tragic. Neil reading the poem to the woman's poetry group was classic and he read it with such passion, Fiennes is an incredibly under rated actor, he did a great job in this film. How this film has a low rating on IMDb; I don't know. But I do recommend this film, I thought it was very good and should be given another look.8/10
I recently saw Garfield the movie and decided to go ahead and see what the sequel Garfield: A Tail of Two Kitties was about. These movies are so short, what do I have to loose, right? Well I watched Garfield 2 yesterday and actually it was a pretty cute movie, from what I was expecting, I thought this was just a fun family film. Again, we do deal with the CGI, but for what this movie was, it had a cute story and fun characters. I'm kinda wondering though, what was the purpose of this sequel? It's one of those "was this for the money or for the kids" movies. But I have to admit that this still had some fun laughs and cute moments, I'm such a sucker for the dogs, like Odie. But this movie felt more like a straight to DVD release than an actually theater movie.Jon wants to propose to his girlfriend, Liz, Garfield is so not in the mood to loose Jon to another life just when he got used to Odie. But Liz has to go to London for a convention, Jon thinks it would be the perfect idea to go and surprise her over there and propose. Garfield and Odie sneak with Jon and take the vacation too. But when a cat, Prince, who looks exactly like Garfield, is thrown away into the streets by Dargis, who wants Prince's castle that he inherited, Garfield is mistaken for Prince and taken back to the castle to live the high life and just party. Prince is mistaken for Garfield and lives the lower but the funnest life of lasagna and laziness.Garfield: A Tail of Two Kitties isn't a bad movie by any means, I think this is the perfect family film where it's great for the kids and even the adults will get a few laughs. I mentioned before in my Garfield comment that these movies did defeat the whole purpose of the original cartoon, but I guess I'll have to give up because you know we will see these movies again where they'll take our favorite childhood cartoon and turn it into CGI madness, maybe Woody Woodpecker will be next, who knows? But anyways, Garfield: A Tail of Two Kitties is decent enough for the watch, but one watch is enough I'd say.6/10
After looking on this board to see why most people did not enjoy My Best Friend's Girl, it seemed like the only reason why was due to their lack of respect for Dane Cook, everyone just complained about him or Kate Hudson, but in some sick way I still wanted to see the movie. So I wanted to give it a fair chance and I saw it on Monday, oh, how I regret doing so. There are several problems wrong with this movie: the title is misleading, Jason Biggs really never had Kate Hudson as an official girlfriend in the movie, so why is the title "My Best Friend's Girl"? The song "My Best Friend's Girl" is played almost over and over again in every scene, it gets pretty annoying. Kate Hudson says she wants to get out there and date, but she dates one guy and falls for him. Then Dane Cook is supposed to play this complete and total jerk who just messes around with women's heads and I'm supposed to believe he can just do a 180 on his personality when he finds the right girl? Oh, this story gave me a headache.Dustin is crazy about a girl he has been dating, Alexis, so much that he moves quickly to say that he loves her and that they should move faster. Alexis freaks out and dumps Dusty, leading him to ask his friend, Tank, for a favor, Tank gets paid by other men to take their ex's out and to be a complete and total disgusting jerk making them realize that the guy they had before was an angel and should be given a second chance. Tank does this for Dusty, one problem, Tank actually really likes Alexis, the plan backfires when Alexis tells Dusty she would like to continue to see other people. Dusty thinks Tank is still trying to help him while secretly he continues dating Alexis and finding out that he even falls for her just as hard as Dusty does.This movie is hypocritical, sick, and honestly doesn't have any redeemable qualities. I'm supposed to feel bad for Dane Cook's character after he realizes that Alexis is special and because he does one cute thing for her, all that he's put other women through, all he just did to his best friend, all he is putting Alexis through, I'm supposed to like him at the end? Not to mention Alexis sees him finally moving on after she dumps him, he's with another woman and rudely breaks up their date making a fool out of herself. Dusty moves onto a slutty girl and... God, this movie just made me so angry. It has 2 funny giggles, that's about it, I wouldn't really recommend it though. I love movies, if they're aimed for a certain purpose, I cut it a lot of slack, but this movie was just very messy when it came to the story and it just got predictable and stupid.2/10
As much as I know that this is a pretty silly story that really makes mostly no sense whatever, but this movie was just so sexy, blah! I'm shallow! I'm sick! I liked it! Shame, shame on me! Mickey is just so hot in this movie, I couldn't believe it! He always creeped me out in his new movies, but once I saw 9 1/2 Weeks, he's just so beautiful. OK, I'm sorry, I just had to get that out.Elizabeth is a young beautiful woman who meets John, a smooth talking business man, and they hit it off naturally and passionately. They start a very intimate relationship pretty quickly and she ends up moving in with him, under the condition that he can take care of her have her to himself at night time. But of course since she doesn't know him that well and he keeps silent about his past, she begins to question him. Not to mention that the games are getting more and more scary when he's asking for more from her sexually.OK, movie wise, 9 1/2 weeks is no Oscar winning story, in fact, I even deny if there is a movie in here, but it was Mickey that drew me to the story... and that accent... and that hair... and that smile... Oh, God! I need to go watch this movie again before I give it back to the movie store.6/10
OK, cheesy joke, I know, but actually the movie really did get to me. I picked up this movie at Hollywood Video, I was pretty curious on what it was, if it was a thriller, horror movie, or drama, it's pretty much a mix of all. But also William Friedkin had directed the film, William isn't just the director of The Exorcist, he's an incredible director who has many works of art under his belt. So I rented Bug and watched it last night and I have to say that this was an incredibly disturbing psychological thriller that really freaked me out. I mean, these performances were absolutely amazing, most people are raving about Ashley Judd's performance, but what about Michael Shannon? In my opinion, he had the best performance, he was so intense and he really draws you into the scene and the story.Agnes is a woman who is pretty much on her own, she lives in a cruddy little motel, has an abusive boyfriend who is out of jail and won't leave her alone, and also lost a son a while back in a grocery store. She's also a drug addict. When her friend, R.C., brings her friend, Peter to Agnes's house, Peter and Agnes pretty much click from the get go, but when Peter tries to get away from Agnes, he confesses the reason why, that he was part of an army experiment and he's escaped. She asks him to stay anyways, that she's so lonely, and he does, but soon they have delusions of a bug infestation and start destroying each other over something that they swear they can see and is watching them.The story is so beyond intense, I couldn't believe how much this film got to me. Especially when they reveal the ultimate damage that Peter does to his own character, it sent shivers down my spine. Ashley, Michael, and Harry all brought in great performances and really made this story incredibly interesting and scary to watch. The whole ending was beautifully shot by Friedkin, I was a little disappointed with how quickly it did end, but thinking about it, I'm not sure if there could have been a better ending, but you'll have to see what I mean when you watch it. I would recommend this film, I don't think many users are understanding what it's about or are just focusing on the wrong things here, but this movie I warn you is not for the faint of heart.7/10
Growing up, one of my favorite things to do was to listen to music. I was born in 1985, so from a young age, my parents liked to listen to all the 80's rock. To this day, I still have Scorpion, Bon Jovi, Journey, Montley Crue, Def Leopard, Van Halen and AC/DC in my car among others. I don't know what it is about rock/heavy metal music, but it just gets in your blood and makes you want to party like no one ever has. I'm not the only one that feels this way obviously, this genre of music still has an extremely loyal fan base and you see all the time on VH1 a show dedicated to the rock music of the 80's. It seems like the past 10 years have been a "what a great time we had in the 80's" flashback, from the fashion to the music to the movies to the colors, we notice certain trends coming back. Of course the music that everyone still loves so much was eventually made into a musical called Rock of Ages. I've been dying to see it, but keep putting it off, so naturally when I heard that they were making the movie, I was already excited to see it. Well, I've found out why the musical hasn't hit Broadway just yet.In 1987, Sherrie Christian travels to Los Angeles with dreams of becoming a famous singer while barback Drew Boley prepares for another night of work at "The Bourbon Room," a popular nightclub on the Sunset Strip. As Sherrie approaches The Bourbon, her suitcase, containing her favorite records, is stolen. Seeing the incident, Drew comforts Sherrie and, upon learning of her situation, he gets her a job at the Bourbon Room as a waitress. The club's owner, Dennis Dupree, and his right-hand man, Lonny Barnett, are trying to find a way to deal with unpaid taxes that are threatening the club, wishing their love of rock 'n' roll could keep it alive. They finally decide to book Stacee Jaxx, a famous rock star who has recently announced that he will be resigning from his band, Arsenal, to perform at the Bourbon in hopes of raising enough money to clear up their debt. Upon hearing of Jaxx's upcoming concert, Patricia Whitmore, the religious conservative wife of Mayor Mike Whitmore, organizes her church to protest in front of the Bourbon Room, planning to shut them down in an attempt to rid L.A. of its "sex, drugs, and rock 'n' roll" image.The good in this film mainly comes from Tom Cruise's performance who looks like he just had the best time making this movie. Bringing in a mixture of Axl Rose and Keith Richards, constantly being late, making no sense, new girl every 10 minutes, but still somehow has this insanely great talent that could sell records no matter what reputation he has, Tom was just great and very funny. Alec Baldwin is always great to watch and I even like Russell Brand, but there's this strange "joke/revelation" between them that I won't give away that just didn't work very well. The two leads Diego Boneta and Julianne Hough were cute, but a little too after school Disney show romance for me. But they did perform very well. Catherine Zeta Jones and Paul Giamatti play the one note bad guys with no real motivation other than reputation and money, that's it. It's just been done to death a million times with this story that I wish they would've done something a little more creative with these songs. I do over all like the movie and it's energy, but it could have been so much more, otherwise it just sounds like I've gone to the bar with a bunch of drunks singing karaoke butchering Don't Stop Believin'.6/10
I didn't know what to expect when I picked Stardust up at the video store, but I just love Michelle Pfeiffer and Robert DeNiro, they're two of my favorite actors/actresses in the world. But after hearing some decent reviews, I figured this would be a film worth looking at. I think in some ways this is the new Pricess Bride for a new generation, we've been needing a good fairy tale movie for a while. Stardust is magical and a wonderful story that will charm it's way into your heart. The cast was so wonderful and a great match. Although I'm going to be a bit traumatized for a while with Robert DeNiro's part for a while, but it's all good... I guess... since he's already proved that he's a man's man... OK, moving on. Stardust is a wonderful family film that I'm sure will be a classic for generations to come.Tristan is just a hopeless romantic looking for the hand of the fair maiden, Victoria, but she's a bit of a brat with high standards and says that if he captures a fallen star that crashed into the Earth that she will marry him. He goes for it and finds out that the star is a person, Yvaine, who is a beautiful girl, she does go with him with promises to get back home. But there is one problem, she's a wanted lady, she will restore youth to three ugly and evil witches and also if captured, by some greedy brothers, will be rewarded with the king's crown and kingdom. But Tristan and Yvaine face a mighty adventure and fall in love with each other.Stardust is a wonderful fairy tale that doesn't over do anything and is just lovely to watch. But I tell you, Michelle Pfeiffer is just like the most beautiful woman who is almost in her 50's! How does she stay so perfect?! I think this movie was more of a documentary than a film, lol, just kidding, but she does look amazing in Stardust and does a chilling performance. The cast looked like they had a lot of fun making this film and they made the movie so entertaining. I would recommend Stardust very much, it's a terrific family film and a classic for ages to come.9/10
I have been reading nothing but good reviews on Inception these past few weeks, now I knew from the minute I saw the trailer, I had to see this movie but I didn't know what to expect. If you have seen the trailer to this movie, you know that it doesn't explain too much. But I saw Inception today and all I can say is: Wow! With an incredible cast and amazing director, you just can't go wrong. Inception is a movie that not only makes you think but can start a whole conversation with what you just saw on the screen. It's a very clever story that is told with skill and passion, while you do have to pay attention, I loved that it made me think. One of my friends saw a premiere and told me how he would have to see it again to understand it, but I didn't get that when I saw it today. But I would love to see the movie again, I have no problem with that. Between the performances, the story, the sounds, the editing and the incredible effects, I would love to watch this movie over and over again, it's my favorite film of the year so far.Dom Cobb is a skilled thief, the absolute best in the dangerous art of extraction, stealing valuable secrets from deep within the subconscious during the dream state, when the mind is at its most vulnerable. Cobbs rare ability has made him a coveted player in this treacherous new world of corporate espionage, but it has also made him an international fugitive and cost him everything he has ever loved. Now Cobb is being offered a chance at redemption. One last job could give him his life back but only if he can accomplish the impossible inception. He gathers a group of thieves that will pull this incredible mission off, teaching new comer, Ariadne their amazing world and how to alter it to their liking, but if gone too deep into making the dream into something strange, they could get lost and play limbo between reality and dreams. Even after all the lessons, instead of the perfect heist, Cobb and his team of specialists have to pull off the reverse: their task is not to steal an idea but to plant one.To write a dream is a riddle, I love the way this movie was written. Christopher Nolan is one of my new favorite directors, he knows exactly how to write and tell a story. The only small flaw, this is a very small complaint, is that his stories while they're incredible, can also be a bit exhausting. This film is a bit long to warn you in advance, it's a little over two and a half hours long. I felt like there were a couple of things with the story that could have been trimmed, but like I said it's such a small complaint because Inception intrigued me so much. To say that this film will be a contender for the Oscars is pretty much a guarantee with the sound, script, editing and effects. Hopefully I think it might be a runner up for best picture.One of the things I hate to do in a review is brag about a movie because I don't want others to get over hyped with the film and to be disappointed when they see it. But honestly, I don't think there isn't one person I wouldn't recommend this movie too. Inception has some of the most incredible effects mixing The Matrix and The Dark Knight, I think the "Zero Gravity" fight scene is one of the most amazing moments I've seen on the big screen. I loved how the story kept you thinking and going, guessing what would happen next and what was going on. A dream within a dream within a dream, you even begin to question with the characters what is a dream and what is reality. With a great cast and excellent director, Inception is everything I wanted and more, once again, Nolan created a masterpiece. Something from his own mind, Inception questions yours' and makes you wonder which world you are part of.10/10
I couldn't wait for The Duchess, I am just a huge fan of period pieces and Kiera Knightly is becoming a fantastic actress in this genre. I was looking forward to this film mainly because I studied Georgina a little bit in college for my history class and I always thought she was such an elegant and strong woman that stood out from the others. She was like the Madonna of her day, she had a great sense of style, self, and strength. While the movie is not completely accurate, it still was a fine movie to watch. Kiera truly held her own as Georgina and was absolutely stunning. One of the underlining stories that I appreciate in this film is the battle of the sexes. Ralph Fiennes who plays the Duke of Devonshire does a fantastic job as well and he plays this anti-villain, shows the true side of the pain and pressure men felt but how they looked at women as nothing but property. This story truly touches you and makes you grateful for our present day.Georgina is born into a high class family of royalty who is about to be married off to the Duke of Devonshire and everything seems great, G is going to live the high life of class, culture, and being a lady of the people. She comes across the price though: her husband's affairs that are practically rubbed in her face, her life is constantly watched and judged by people, she must be perfect at all times to keep up her reputation as a joyful lady, she is forced to be the mother of the duke's child from an affair he had, as well as she cannot birth a son for the Duke and he will find every opportunity to rub it in her face. All this and Georgina has found another love who she cannot give her heart to fully for the love of her children and people.The Duchess is a fine film that I truly enjoyed. I wouldn't be surprised if Kiera was nominated for best actress during the academy season. I would highly recommend this movie, especially for the period piece lovers. Like I said, this film makes you appreciate what we have today in our modern society and truly makes you feel for the pressures both men and women had to face in that day. Georgina is a figure that I think is very looked over in history when she is one of the strongest presences in England's history. The Duchess, even though not entirely accurate, does a very good job of telling her story and was a pleasure to watch.8/10
The Chronicles of Narnia: Prince Caspian, big blockbuster number three in the summer of 2008, now I expected this to be an exciting movie already, but I have to tell you that the excitement got so much higher as I watched this movie. I couldn't believe just how awesome this movie was, I mean the first Chronicles is a fantastic movie, but this movie takes a few steps ahead. It's definitely more mature, it takes on a lot of battle scenes, like a Lord of the Rings type of battle with a ton of creatures who are fighting for their land back. We have amazing effects, with taking badgers, goats, and mice, and the mice, this is no Puss in Boots from Shrek 2, this is the blood thirsty mice that kick butt! The Chronicles of Narnia: Prince Caspian is seriously one of the best films I have seen this year.The movie begins where the first Chronicles left off, the kids are in England, pretty depressed and miss Narnia, it's been a year, but while in a train station, they are taken away back to Narnia where it's been 1300 years. The land is in bad shape, they have been called by Prince Caspian, the kids are these legends to the Narnians, but they need the kid's help. So everyone is in for a strong battle to get Narnia back into the beautiful land it once was. Lucy is hoping to re-connect with Aslan, but everyone does not believe as strong as she does.The Chronicles of Narnia: Prince Caspian is a movie that will not disappoint, I cannot believe how good this movie was, I was so excited watching all these amazing battle sequences. The plot is actually pretty easy to follow, for kids that are under 10, I'm not so sure if this is a film for them, I know that The Chronicles of Narnia is a family film, but there is quite a bit of violence in the movie, like blood, cutting, decapitations. But for the effects, I would say this is safer than Lord of the Rings. Like I said before though, The Chronicles of Narnia: Prince Caspian is truly a winner, this is just a fantastic movie and is a must see.10/10
As much as I enjoyed the first Shrek, I honestly almost died laughing and loving Shrek 2. The first Shrek was sweet and innocent, but the second took us to a different edge with terrific animation and just drop on the floor laughable jokes. Antonio Bandares as the cat was just such a great addition to the cast, he just killed me! I don't understand why Shrek 2 wasn't on the top 250, how could someone not enjoy this Shrek? Shrek and Fiona are now married and happy ogres, that is until Fiona's parents wish to see her and her new hubby. Fiona was supposed to marry Prince Charming, which ruined her fairy godmother and dad's plans, so her dad hires a hit-cat to slay Shrek, but fails, but since Shrek spars his life, the cat stays with Donkey and Shrek. Shrek wants so badly for Fiona to live happily ever after, so he and Donkey take a potion from the fairy godmother and have little time to make sure it stays permanent.Like I said, the Cat was my favorite character, especially when he and Donkey since Livin' La Vida Loca, I thought that it was so cute. Also when he stops the guards in the palace and gives them the cute kitty look. I just don't understand why no one got into the sequel as much as I did, otherwise this would be higher on the rating, and probably above the first Shrek.10/10
I rented August Rush a few days ago with good expectations, I just heard wonderful things about this film, so I was excited to see it. I watched the film last night and I am very much in love with this movie, everything about it was just so sweet and lovely. This movie reminded me of the story of Oliver Twist, it's a different take on the story with the power of music and just listening. The cast, the story, the editing, the direction, the music, nothing is off about August Rush. Freddie Highmore has such an incredible talent for such a young age, but his face says so much and his acting is just perfect and makes the audience just fall in love with him. Keri Russell is just pulling in one great performance to another, from Waitress to August Rush, she's just lovely. We also have the talented Jonathan Rhys Meyers from the Tudors, the incredible Terrence Howard, then a disturbing yet memorable performance from Robin Williams.Evan Taylor is an orphan who is just convinced that he can hear his parent's music, that they do want him and he goes out to find them. Lyla and Louis, Evan's parents, were two young people who found a strong connection and had a one night stand, but Lyla's father takes her away from Louis and when a horrible accident happens, Lyla's father lies to her telling her that her baby died, but behind her back puts the baby up for adoption. Evan is set to find his parents but come across a musical group of kids, who are making money for Wizzard, when Evan plays music, it's magical, Wizzard exposes Evan giving him a new name, August Rush and makes money off of him. But when Lyla finds out about her son being alive, she goes to New York to find him, Louis starts thinking about Lyla and finds out where she lives, Chicago, but when he finds out she's gone, he goes to New York to relive his band days, instead they find each other and the musical genius their love created.August Rush is one of the first films of the year that I'm rating a perfect 10, because there is nothing wrong with this film, to be honest, I think it deserves a higher rating than a 7.4. Is this a masterpiece? No, I'm not sure if it will be remembered several years from now, but I do know that this was a great movie and I would be so happy to watch it again. It's perfect for the family to watch, it's perfect for a group of friends, or just even for yourself if you are looking for a good movie to watch. August Rush is a movie that I'm sure will work it's way into your heart, it's a magical film that is absolutely perfect.10/10
I don't know why, but I decided to get into the Candyman sequels, I did enjoy the first Candyman, so why not see the sequels? Tony Todd is an awesome boogeyman as well, so I was kinda looking forward to seeing the second Candyman and curious where the story was going. While the story worked in some ways, I wasn't that thrilled about it. Not to mention I didn't like the city change, I'm just filled with so much Chicago pride, you know? Annie is a school teacher and her brother is up on murder charges, he is also being accused of murdering her father who was truly murdered by the famous Candyman. Annie knows that her brother is innocent, but her kids start to test her patience on the Candyman myth, to prove them wrong, she calls to the Candyman and makes a big mistake. She finds out that her great grandmother was the lover of Candyman and he wants her now to bring out his past.Candyman Farewell to the Flesh was an alright horror movie and the story could've worked better, but it just seemed like your typical horror sequel and it could be predictable at times. But the husband dying, that was a pretty cool scene I have to admit. So, if you want to, watch it, but it's nothing to get excited over.5/10
An idea that has been used multiple times, machines take over, the scientists play God and the world is in a state of panic. Back in 2004 there was a movie released called "I, Robot" starring Will Smith, basically being about how robots have taken over and now do our jobs. Well, Surrogates takes this idea only with a twist and a clever premise, what if we had a twin robot? One that could do our job, go out, run errands and basically saving us from having to deal with the outside world of crime and disease. Not to mention that you could make your surrogate look however you want it to look, something completely different, opposite sex or different age, race or just a more beautiful version of you. Sounds like Heaven, right? But when you come down to the ethics of it, makes you question if this is a healthy lifestyle while we remain shut-in's and completely locked from the outside world. No exercise or physical contact can drive you crazy. Surrogates has a lot of potential in the story, but was poorly executed. Going from a very clever story to a bad action movie, not to mention some of the plot holes, Bruce Willis tries his best to make this story work. Unfortunately the movie just wasn't handled the right way.In the future, use of remotely-controlled androids called "surrogates" allows everyone to live in idealized forms in the safety of their own homes. A surrogate's operator is protected from harm and does not feel any pain when their surrogate is damaged. FBI agent Tom Greer and his partner, Agent Jennifer Peters, investigate the death of two people who were killed when their surrogates were destroyed. One of the victims is Jarod Canter, the son of Dr. Lionel Canter, the inventor of surrogates. Greer and Peters determine that a human, Miles Strickland, used a new type of weapon that overloaded the surrogate's systems and disabled the fail-safe mechanisms that shield an operator from harm; killing the operators. After locating Strickland, Greer attempts to bring him into custody. Greer is injured during the chase when Strickland uses the weapon again, and inadvertently crash-lands into an anti-surrogate zone. Greer's surrogate is eventually destroyed by a mob of humans, forcing him to interact in the world without one. Agent Greer learns that the weapon was produced, under a government contract, by the same company that produces the surrogates. It was designed to load a virus which would overload the surrogate's systems thus disabling it. The unexpected side effect was that the weapon disabled the fail-safe protocols that keep the surrogate's operator safe. Now going into the world in human form or also called a "meat bag", we start to find the severe flaws in this perfect world of surrogates.So sounds clever, right? Well, I couldn't find some of the concepts believable. Now from the looks of things, surrogates have been around for years, so I'm guessing it's to the point where none of the humans get out of their homes. Bruce Willis as a human gets our of his chair and walks perfectly as he goes into the public. Not to mention that his psyche must be pretty crazed as he hasn't been in public possibly since he was a child. The action sequences also didn't work for me, too cliché, to predictable and didn't blend well with the story. Chalk this one up to just the wrong director with a bad vision, because this movie could have been so much more. I love Bruce Willis but he wasn't right for the lead role. But I wouldn't say that this movie was a total loss, there are some good moments as well. I thought it had the story and I loved the villain of the story, someone who wanted the surrogates to help society, but instead are destroying not only the public but his family and personal life as well. Surrogates was a movie that I was happy just to watch on TV, it's just an OK film that I'll probably forget about in a few days.5/10
I have just heard so much about Run, Lola, Run or Lola Rennt as it is pronounced in Germany. I heard about it on I love the 90's, my 1001 movies you must see before you die book, and the Simpsons did a parody of it. I always pass the foreign film section at my video store, but something just told me to check it out real quick to see maybe if there was a film that looked interesting and I saw Run Lola Run and just grabbed it. Now, while I'm still confused about how this movie is on the top 250 on IMDb, I still found it to be very entertaining and an interesting way of making film.Lola gets a phone call from her boyfriend who lost a sack of one hundred thousand dollars(American) and the mobsters he was supposed to deliver it too are going to come and kill him if he doesn't have the money with him. Lola has 20 minutes to get a hundred thousand dollars, in three scenario's, the director gives us different ways of seeing this story and also some different endings that keep us going and wondering what might happen next.I would say that maybe because I am very used to American film making, maybe I just didn't get it as much as others to where I would give it a ten on the rating system. But it's all good, I still did enjoy the movie, it had great action and kept me going into a different ending three times! I would recommend it for fun, it had decent acting and a very interesting way of making film, like music video styles and a bit of Japnamation, but I'm still not sure if this is one of the greatest movies of all time, you know? 7/10
Eastern Promises is another big talker for the Oscars and golden globes, I wasn't interested at first, but after hearing such excellent reviews, I am so grateful that I listened to them. Eastern Promies is one of the best films of the year, and honestly, I would say it's one of the best films in this century. The performances were just absolutely flawless, both Vigoo and Naomi were perfect choices and their performances were beyond incredible. Not to mention the rest of the cast, I just cannot pick a favorite. Another thing that made this film terrific was the lighting and settings, David Cronenberg is such an amazing director. There was a shot in particular that I thought was so beautiful, with the prostitute that Viggo sleeps with and she's lying on the bed singing was so hypnotic and heart breaking, just captures the terror she's probably been through in the business. The story is a memorable one that is up to Godfather standards.Anna is just a nurse in London, when her hospital comes across a 14 year old who is pregnant and gives a premature birth, she dies, but the baby lives. The girl has left a diary of her life and how she became pregnant and by whom, going deep into the dark world of the Russian mafia in London. Anna is determined to find out what happened to her and talks to the godfather who is accused of raping the girl. Nikolai is a "driver" for the Russian mafia, he is being pressured to be more tough, but deep down, he knows what the right thing is to do and after a horrible set up, he realizes the dark world he is in and wants to help Anna.Eastern Promises was just a flawless film, there was absolutely nothing wrong with this movie. I really hope that the Oscars recognize it's creditability, it's a classic for mob movies and a new favorite of mine. Viggo was just so amazing, his scene where he is telling the mob bosses of his history of crime was absolutely perfect and dead on. His story was so heart breaking when you really think about it and just the horrible life he has had to led to be accepted. Anna, played by Naomi, she just truly captured my heart in trying to save this baby's life and find out the story behind her mother's tragic life. Eastern Promises is a film not to be missed, it's a perfect film.10/10
I guess you could call me a late fan of Sex and the City. A couple of years ago when the first Sex and the City film was released, I never saw the series, but I was working at a movie theater. When I saw the trailer for the film, I thought how strange it was that a movie was coming out a few years after the series ended and that it would probably flop. Now if there is anything I learned from working at the movie theater that I worked at the time, DO NOT underestimate Sex and the City fans. That weekend was crazy like no other for a female leading movie, not to mention a Rated R film. So I saw the movie without knowing the series or the characters and actually enjoyed it, so I decided to go out and buy the series on DVD. I actually was surprised how much I enjoyed it, it's a well written series with interesting characters. But it's a fantasy world that a lot of women want and I think that's where we have our down fall and why a lot of people hate the series/movies. We have four very confident older women who have sex, admit it and are not ashamed of it, it's very off putting. So I was one of those evil girlfriends that took the boyfriend with to see this, he owed me a favor lol, but it turned out that he actually had a good time watching the film too because of it's mindless fun.Carrie, Samantha, Charlotte and Miranda now have lives that are more stressful than before: All are married except for Samantha, who is now 52 and trying to keep her libido with hormones alive while dealing with menopause; Charlotte's two children are a handful and Charlotte is worried that Harry is attracted to their nanny, Erin, who, as revealed at the end of the film, is a lesbian; and Carrie's marriage to Mr. Big has settled down, though they differ on how to spend their spare time: she always wants to go out, he would prefer to stay home and watch television some evenings. Meanwhile, Samantha is approached by an Arab sheikh to devise a PR campaign for his business, and he offers to fly her and her friends on an all-expenses-paid luxury vacation to Abu Dhabi. While in Abu Dhabi, Carrie runs into her former lover, Aidan, and agrees to a dinner date. Meanwhile, Samantha, Charlotte, and Miranda run up against a culture clash in the Middle East, as their style and attitudes contrast with Muslim society.Now this film does have some real flaws, there are a lot of pointless moments. Where Carrie loosing her passport to get it back to get the other girls into another shenanigan, that was a little silly. The film is a bit long and could have been a bit trimmed. Wither I think it's racist or not, I honestly don't see it as looking down at the Muslim culture. A lot of American women are surprised to find out about other cultures, not defending that it's right, but a lot of Americans are very closed off to the world. As for the Muslim women revealing that they loved fashion and showed that they conveniently had designer clothes underneath their robes I found unnecessary and a little disrespectful. But however, if you let these silly situations go and just try to enjoy the film, I think you'll find yourself laughing and having a good time. While the film has it's flaws, it's enjoyable, there are some really funny moments as well as touching. I loved the scene between Miranda and Charlotte talking about the hardship of motherhood, it was one of the most honest scenes in the Sex and the City story. Also Samantha screaming at the Muslim men at the end on how she does have sex was really a blast to watch. Carrie was a down fall, her character is very self absorbed and not likable in this story. It's the side characters that bring this movie together and for the fans I think this is totally worth the watch. As for the haters, of course you won't enjoy it, so I suggest you just ignore it, it's mindless entertainment. Give it a break, it isn't hurting anyone.6/10
I had a great chance to see The Incredible Hulk yesterday and I wasn't expecting much, after the total flop that was The Hulk in 2003, I wasn't too sure that this was a good idea. Now, granted, Edward Norton is one of my favorite actors of all time, he is just terrific and has such a wide range of characters. Seeing him for the first time in a super hero movie was going to be interesting. But from the trailer, this looked once again like it was going to be over the top and not really entertaining. However The Incredible Hulk was actually... incredible! It was highly entertaining, the CGI was a thousand times more believable than the 2003 movie, the actors were great, and it pays great homages to the TV show and comic book for the fans. The Incredible Hulk does have small flaws, but the story keeps you interested and Edward Nortn couldn't have been a more perfect choice as The Hulk.Bruce did a new experiment that made him into the hulk, causing every angry reaction he has turning him into a green nine foot monster that is virtually indestructible. But he has run off to South America until he can find a cure for this "desease" and be with the love of his life, Betty. But when the FBI surrounds him, he heads back to America with the promise of a cure from his friend, Dr. Blue. But as soon as he heads back, an army experiment gone evil with Blonsky turns him into an evil hulk and Bruce must face him off.The Incredible Hulk is a great summer movie and I highly recommend it. The story can be a little slow at times, but I thought the effects and acting was just fantastic. I really loved watching The Indcredible Hulk, this is a summer block buster that I have been waiting for, I know a lot of people are rooting for Iron Man, but I feel like The Incredilbe Hulk is in a class of it's own. Edward Norton and Tim Roth were great on screen and had a real presence. Tim was so frightening, he was awesome and his villain couldn't have been more on key. I highly recommend The Incredible Hulk, this was a great movie that I'm sure any one could just have a blast with.9/10
Oh, my God, where do I even begin with this film that hasn't already been said? Troll 2 is so famous that I think it can't be considered a cult film any more as it's gone more mainstream. Again, how I never saw this film until last night I don't know. I've heard so much about these Troll movies that it's just crazy how a film so bad has such a huge reputation. The Room by Tommy Wiseau has recently taken over the "king of good bad movies" crown but I had to see who was the former king and Troll 2 often came up in the conversation. Now of course due to YouTube the most famous scene being the "They're eating her and then they're going to eat me! Oh, my Goooooood!" has been uploaded too many times to count. But this film is so much more than that: horrifically bad acting, awful special effects, a weird "plot", bad writing and just craziness ensues.Joshua Waits is being contacted by his dead Grandpa Seth. Seth informs Joshua of evil creatures known as goblins roaming the world who force or trick humans into consuming poisoned food which will turn them into the goblin's favorite type of food, vegetables. The goblins would then eat them.Meanwhile Joshua's sister, Holly, receives a visit from her boyfriend Elliot. She accuses him of spending too much time with his friends. Since she and the rest of the family are going to Nilbog for a holiday, he offers to meet her on the way. She agrees but under the condition that he will come alone without his friends. However, Elliot does not turn up at their meeting point and Holly's parents, Michael and Diane, go on without him. They meet him further up the route but she angrily dismisses him since he is accompanied by his friends. A meal has been prepared at the house where they are staying, but Joshua's grandfather shows up again and freezes time for thirty seconds, giving Joshua a chance to stand up on the table and urinate on the food, and thus prevent his family from eating. Meanwhile one of Elliot's friends, Arnold, goes out for a walk and meets a woman being pursued by the goblins. Running away, they enter the house of the goblins' druid leader, Creedence, who uses the "Stonehenge Magic Stone" to give the goblins power. Creedence dupes the two into drinking a magic potion which causes the woman to disintegrate into a puddle of vegetable matter which is then eaten by the goblins, and now we know why everyone in the town is so eager to make the family eat their food, even though they're not so subtle about it.Between the "you can't p*** on hospitality" scene to the corn on the cob seduction scene, this movie is unbelievable. I don't know who was the worst actor in here but I'd say the leading contender is Deborah Reed who plays Creedence, the leader bad troll, I guess it was one of those "non acting" days. She was beyond over the top making you wonder what she was inhaling before each shoot. I love how the dead grandpa is talking to his young grandson, why wouldn't he just haunt one of the adults so maybe someone who doesn't sound like they have a wild imagination talk some sense into this family who is going to "Nilborg" mmph! Sorry, I'm still recovering from this movie, why the family would take vacation to this weird town is beyond me and how they didn't drive away with those "subtle" trolls in disguise as humans who keep telling them to eat, I mean just wow! Not to mention that they say they're vegetarian trolls, yet are turning human meat into vegetables, I mean, any vegan opinions? Bologna is their ultimate enemy and is by far the weirdest way to defeat an evil monster. I would say this movie is definitely a miracle, how it was created, who knows? Any of the actors or writers realize how bad this was while shooting it? I suppose I should see the documentary "Best Worst Movie" in order to find out, but the question is even if I want to see it? I still need to recover from Troll 2, all I can say is that after I finished watching this movie I finally snapped out of my mind set to see that I had been robbed and was sitting on the floor and the robber left a note saying how he felt bad for me that I was watching Troll 2 and that I would have no meaning for life any more after viewing it.1/10
Harold & Kumar Go to White Castle, in 2004 just from the title, I never wanted to see this movie, it just sounded so incredibly stupid and a waste of good film. But on Bravo a few months ago they had this movie on it's top 100 funniest films of all time and also they're not releasing the new sequel in a month, so I figured what do I have to loose? Just go ahead and give the movie a chance, so I rented it yesterday and watched it today, I hate to say it, I couldn't stop laughing. I mean from beginning to end this movie is just so unbelievably funny, I think it's because it doesn't take itself seriously and the actors just have so much fun with it. Kenn Pal and John Cho have a great chemistry for the buddy relationship of Harold and Kumar, not since Bill and Ted has been such a great stoner move.Harold and Kumar are two friends who are about to enjoy their Friday night getting high, they get the munchies and are looking for the ultimate satisfying food: WHITE CASTLE. So they go on a trip to the local White Castle where they are disappointed to find out that the White Castle is closed, so they have to travel across town to get their craving. But the night is still young from emergency surgery to chilling with the cheetah's, from Neil Patrick Harris stealing their car to hang gliding, this is the ultimate night just to get the perfect square hamburger.Seriously Harold & Kumar Go to White Castle is one of the funniest movies I have seen in a long time. I couldn't believe how much I laughed out loud during this film, I think I have to join in with the fans on this movie. I just loved everything about this film except for the potty humor, that's always for me a huge turn off, but I got over it because this was just a fun movie. The script, the actors, the fantasy with the weed and Kumar was just beyond hilarious. I loved Harold & Kumar Go to White Castle and highly recommend it, don't take it seriously, just have fun.8/10
So, Hellboy, another comic book I never heard of, figured I would never get into it if I didn't know the story, so I stayed clear of the film, but I was renting movies and came across it and figured to just see what it was about. I watched Hellboy yesterday and this was definitely a fun film, it's so rare that we get the dark comic book story like Batman, except we have Hellboy, supernatural and dark, nice combo. Hellboy packs plenty of action and cool effects with an awesome story and a new anti hero to root for. It's so cool and ironic that we are rooting for a half man and half devil to save the world, right? Hellboy is an awesome hero with the super strength, great fighting skills, and best of all, gotta love the last cool pun lines when he saves the day.In 1944, Professor Trevor Bruttenholm goes to Germany to stop a Nazi troop who are ready to open the gates of Hell. The Americans are able to stop the troop, but Trevor finds a creature, half man, half devil, he calls him Hellboy. Years later Hellboy is being used by the government to help the city out with super natural forces. But when Grigori Rasputin wishes to open the gate once more, he needs Hellboy to do so. In the mean time, Hellboy is fighting for the city and the woman he loves, Liz, and will not fall for Grigori Rasputin's tricks.Hellboy is definitely a fun film to watch and it's a great comic book film. The only complaint I have about the film is just that the effects, as great as they were, there was still some very CGI moments and they were not believable. But I loved Abe Sapien, the special effects on him were beautiful and looked very real. I would recommend Hellboy for the comic book fans or even if you're looking for a dark super hero film other than Batman or The Crow. This is a fun movie and I'm looking forward to the sequel.7/10
I am so disappointed, I was actually looking forward to seeing Superhero Movie, I don't know why, I know I'm getting a lot of hate for it, but sometimes I love the stupid comedies. It's like a guilty pleasure for me, like Scary Movie or Meet the Spartans, it's so stupid that it's funny, so naturally I thought Superhero Movie would have been the same. Now there's one thing that could make me absolutely hate a stupid comedy, the over-doing of fart jokes, the gross jokes. I don't mind a quick one sometimes, it's bad taste, but I can deal with 2 seconds and just let it go. But Superhero Movie has a lot of dumb jokes, seriously, within the first 20 minutes of the movie you have a vomit joke, a poop joke, and a fart joke. Not my taste and not what I would consider funny, there are a few things in here that made me laugh, but it's a big disappointment for those who are expecting Scary Movie humor that's actually funny.Rick Riker is a nerd who goes on a field trip with his class, he's in love with this girl, Jill, but isn't noticed by anyone. But on this trip, he is stung by a dragonfly and is given super powers. He learns from his uncle and a strange man, Professor Xavier how he can save the world with these powers. He'll need them to fight against the Hour Glass Man, who wants to kill thousands of innocent people.Would I recommend Superhero Movie? Not really, it's more of a rental, I'm sad to say that I spent 7 dollars on it. Was it a total waste of time, no, I wouldn't say so, but I just hate gross jokes. There are a few moments where you do laugh, like when Rick walks in and catches a flying nail, his uncle is stunned and Rick says that it's easier than it looks, and then his uncle shoots a nail at Rick's friend and stabs him with it and says "No, it's not". You might like me get a couple laughs, but I think you'll probably be disappointed like me, unless you're a junior high kid who still likes the fart jokes.2/10
When I first saw the trailer to Deception, I was intrigued, but a little put off, we haven't had a thriller release in theaters that was actually good in a while, let alone a sexy thriller. But I saw Deception on Sunday and I think the rating on IMDb is a little harsh to be honest, this was such a cool, sexy, and sleek thriller, true, it was a little predictable if you've seen every thriller possible, but Deception kept me interested and had a good story with an equally strong cast. I was a little disappointed in the ending, it seemed like they could've had something a little stronger with Hugh and Ewan, like they would've been a great pair of trouble makers for the world to watch out for. But it was also cool to see the female fetal back, which we rarely see, and Michelle Williams was a great choice, she had the looks and the talent to pull this movie together with the two strong male leads.Jonathan is an accountant, one of the best, but his life is just what you expect of an accountant: boring, typical, and no ladies, but he meets Wyatt, a handsome, strong, successful lady's man, they become best friends immediately. When Jonathan accidentally grabs Wyatt's cell phone, Wyatt is in a different country, so Jonathan uses the cell and gets involved with a sex club. He meets S, a mysterious girl he just falls for, but when she is "kidnapped", he gets in a lot deeper than he expects and doesn't realize the set up he fell for.Deception is predictable in some ways, the ending, if you are used to these thrillers, yes, you're going to be able to see what's coming, sad, I know, but I'm so used to it that I'm just accepting it. I thought this was still a clever thriller, I just loved Hugh's performance, he was so into his character, he made it sexy and creepy. Ewan pulls in a decent performance and stands strong, the ending is his peek in the film and Michelle was just great as S. Deception is a cool thriller I highly recommend, it's a sexy movie that won't leave you disappointed.7/10
OK, I know people are just going to hate my review after seeing that title, I have a feeling people are going to give this movie a harsh rating just because it is a sequel to Hostel. I know there are not that many fans to the first film, I understand somewhat, it's not for the faint of heart and the first half is like a soft core porno, not to mention the blood and gore that's involved. But I think somewhere down the line it will be a classic cult film. Now for the sequel, I thought, despite a few flaws here and there, I thought it was just as good, maybe even BETTER than the first. Not the most shocking ending I've ever seen either, but it was a good one.Well, the tables have turned, now we have 3 American girls who are the target of this blood hound club's addiction to torture and death. Two brothers are in this together, one isn't quite sure if he could do it, one is psyched out. One of the girls is a bit naive, one is a total slut, and one is the calm and collected one. But when they are taken by the same people as in the first film falling into the same trap, they soon realize the massive trouble they're in. But I think one of the girls has heard the term "if you can't beat 'em, join 'em" a little too much when she realizes what she's in for.There are some massive gory scenes, a warning in advance. I thought that they kinda took an idea, if you ever heard this woman from history, they called her "Countess Blood", I believe, look her up if you do not know what I'm talking about, because there is a scene that is very much like that in Hostel 2. I would only recommend this for fans of the first Hostel, or if you have an open mind, it's not for the faint of heart. It's very gory and very disturbing, but it's a great horror flick with a great ending! 8/10
There are some films that are bad, infamous bad and Barb Wire is one of those I have heard about. Some bad films are trashy but can be a bit fun, like Showgirls and some can just be wrong like Striptease. Barb Wire is a film I guess in some way I'm kind of undecided on, it has the making for just a bad movie with Pamela's bad acting but has the action scenes and cheesy lines that make it fun as well. This movie is a retelling of Cassablanca and isn't so quick to hide that fact, so I guess this is the exotic remake. Pam Anderson is a sexy female lead and isn't that hard to believe that at times she can be tough, she does wear that leather well I have to admit, but some of the way she delivers the lines was a little too Shaquil O'Neil, I think if you're going to do a movie like this, you might as well go over the top, go a little James Woods, it's all good. But we need a fun action film with the lead being female, just sad that this is a bad film that got overlooked. Set in 2017 during the "Second American Civil War", Barb Wire owns the Hammerhead, a nightclub in Steel Harbor "the last free city" in a United States ravaged by the civil war and she brings in extra cash by hiring out as a mercenary and bounty hunter. Her club is raided by Chief of Police Willis, who is looking for the fugitive Dr. Corrina "Cora" Devonshire. Devonshire, a former government scientist, has information about a bioweapon being developed by her former superior, Colonel Pryzer of the Congressional Directorate; she is trying to escape to Canada in order to make this information public. Meanwhile, Devonshire has turned up at the Hammerhead. She is accompanied by Axel Hood, a "freedom fighter" whom Barb had known at the outbreak of the war, but the two were separated soon afterward. Axel is now married to Cora, and is trying to help her get to Canada. They are trying to find a contraband pair of contact lenses which will allow Cora to evade the retinal scan at the Steel Harbor airport. The lenses pass through the hands of several lowlifes before also ending up at Barb's nightclub.Barb Wire really wasn't as bad as I was expecting, even though it's just a remake of a classic romantic movie, it does have some cool moments. I loved some of the action scenes, the fight on the fork lift was a lot of fun to watch and since the movie doesn't take itself too seriously, it's all good and makes the fight scenes that more exciting. I guess I could say that I enjoyed the movie a little bit, I suppose it's a new guilty pleasure. Pam Anderson may be an awful actress, but it's not like I was looking for an Oscar worth movie when I decided to watch it. But I have a feeling that the director has some serious sexual issues considering some of the strange erotic torture devices used in the film are a bit much, maybe I don't want to know. If you have an open mind and are looking for a good bad film, I think you'll get a kick out Barb Wire. However just think if you're looking for an actual action film with good acting, just look at the cover, enough said.5/10
I had the opportunity to see Babylon A.D. today and just decided to go ahead and give it a chance, from the trailer it didn't look so bad. I know a lot of people have a thing against Vin Diesel, but I don't think the guy is so bad, he makes a great action hero and also makes a lot of movies very entertaining. Just look at the Fast and the Furios as well as XXX, you have to admit those movies would be nothing without him. But we have Babylon A.D. now, a lot of my co-workers at my theater warned me that it was pretty bad, but like I said, some people just judge too harshly, I just wanted to see it for myself. Sadly, they were right, the first hour actually had me, I was like "Are they crazy? This movie is pretty decent..." then the ending happened, well, what ending? This film felt so rushed, I was expecting a narrator to speak over and say "Sorry folks, we forget to tell you about the sub plot".Toorop is a mercenary who has just been given an assignment, it seems pretty simple, he just has to deliver a girl from Russia to New York City, unfortunately, it's not that easy. In a world where you have to be a strong person to survive, this girl is something special, with her protector, Rebeka, Toorop leads them to New York discovering that the girl, Aurora, is pregnant with twins that are going to save the world, but they can't discover who to trust since everyone is pulling them in different directions on who will kill her or who wants her alive.Babylon A.D. is just poorly put together. While I think it was an interesting story, it just could have been so much better and should have been told more properly. Sadly, the only character that we really get to know is just Toorup, who is played by Vin Diesel, he is the only one with depth, while they could have had a little focus on the girl, Aurora, how did she get her powers or was she really ill? What was the history and was she destined for all of what happened to her with her children? There were so many questions that were left unanswered. Over all, this isn't a terrible movie, but I would say definitely to wait for the rental, because while the effects are very good and the whole setting is disturbing, it's the story that leaves you dumbfounded and just bummed that the story ended the way it did.4/10
When you think of funny movie titles, they're really very clever. One of the main pitches to see a movie is the title, sort of like Abraham Lincoln: Vampire Hunter. When I first heard of this movie, I got a good chuckle out of that title. My fiancé and I started talking about the sequels: JFK: Zombie Killer, FDR: Witch Slayer, Thomas Jefferson: Werewolf Killer, etc. But I couldn't resist, I had to see what this movie. I'm not sure what inspired this story, I guess Lincoln just didn't make as big a splash as most presidents. I mean he only freed the slaves, is on our American five dollar bill, made it through the civil war and was assassinated, nothing that big. So we had to add another occupation to his resume and what better occupation than what's the hottest trend right now: vampire hunter! You get what you ask for when you see this movie and that's why I'm happy.In 1818, Abraham Lincoln lives in Indiana with his parents, who works at a plantation owned by Jack Barts. There, Lincoln befriends a young African American boy, William Johnson, and intervenes when he sees Johnson being beaten by a slaver. Because of his son's actions, Thomas is fired. That night, Lincoln sees Barts break into his house and attack Nancy. She falls ill the following day, and dies shortly afterwards. Nine years later, Lincoln decides to get revenge against Barts. He attacks Barts at the docks, but Barts, who is actually a vampire, overpowers him. However, before Barts can kill him, Lincoln is rescued by Henry Sturgess. Sturgess explains that vampires exist, and offers to teach Lincoln to be a vampire hunter. Lincoln accepts and, after a decade of training, travels to Springfield, Illinois. Determined for revenge, he realizes that he may have discovered more than he would want to know while the country goes into civil war and that the vampires have deeper motives rather than just slavery.I love history very much, my head is like a sponge that just loves to take information in and I love to study everything about history. So I've seen pictures of Lincoln and his wife Mary, both very good people, but not exactly the lookers of the day. Benjamin Walker, who plays Lincoln and people are calling the young Liam Neeson, does a great job of playing the part but doesn't really look like Lincoln, though he is the closest ironically. But the performance is what makes him memorable. Mary Elizabeth Winstead plays Mary, his wife, she's thin, gorgeous and complete opposite of who Mary was, but still does very well. Now this film is by no means for historical context, I just thought it was funny in the looks department that they pick models to play the average looking people. The action is great and a lot of scenes are very intense and scary. The make up effects for the vampires were great and very intimidating. Everything about this film is really silly when you think in the historical context, but if you just let go, it's honestly fun. Plus, in some sick way, I think this would've been cool if Lincoln was really this bad-ass. He's the original Blade and can really hold himself well against the evil gang of vampire slave owners. You get what you expect and I don't know what else to say for those who are complaining that this movie is too stupid or not historically accurate, it's just a movie. The title explains all, the story is good and the actors had great chemistry and made it work. I'm looking forward to seeing it again, it was a fun horror movie with a good historical twist.7/10
OK, after all the talk, literally, talk after talk of how wonderful Mickey Rourke's performance was in The Wrestler and that he's finally back in action. So I just had to see what all the hype was, especially after everyone started panicking when Sean Penn took the 2009 Oscar for Milk, I was curious if this movie really was as good as everyone was making it to be. So I'm going to give my honest opinion which either is going to get me a lot of hate mail or the "un-useful" marks on my comment, but I'm an honest user, I tell it like it is. The Wrestler is actually a really good movie, I would say that it was one of the top 10 that came out of 2008, but one thing that I really didn't like about the movie was the way it was made and the ending, which I'll explain why in a moment. Mickey Rourke does pull in a top performance, including Marisa Tomei, they took us on this heartbreaking story and made the movie into a small gem.Randy "The Ram" Robinson, is a professional wrestler who was a major star in the 1980s but is now years past his prime and wrestling on the weekends for various independent promotions. Randy goes home and is locked out of his trailer for not paying the rent. Depressed, he takes pain medication and falls asleep in the back of his van. At night he visits a strip club where he has befriended a faded stripper named Pam, stage-named Cassidy. He continues the training rituals for his wrestling appearance, including steroid use and self-tanning. At his next show, Randy wrestles a brutal hardcore match, in which he and his opponent attack each other with thumbtacks, staple guns, barbed wire and glass. Post-match, Randy is treated for his wounds backstage, but he suffers a heart attack soon after and collapses. The heart attack necessitates a bypass operation and Randy is told by the doctor that his weakened heart cannot stand the stresses of steroids or wrestling. Randy cancels his upcoming matches and begins working as a deli counter operator at a supermarket. Randy visits his estranged daughter, Stephanie, whom he had left years before; she curses him and tells him to leave her alone. On his second visit to his daughter, Randy brings a thoughtful gift and admits that he has been a bad father; things seem to brighten up for him, but after a rough night, everything goes down hill for him again.Now my two complaints, the way the movie was made, I understand what Darren Aronofsky was going for where he was trying to make us feel the realism, as if he was filming a day in our lives. But seeing the back of Mickey Rourke's head walking to work didn't exactly feel necessary to me, then there are scenes that cut too fast and made me do a double take. Then the ending, a lot of people are praising the ending, now I'm a huge film buff and I very much appreciate when a film leaves the audience with what they will give the to the movie. But for Randy's story, I felt like it was left incomplete, with him just doing his signature move and they cut to black, this is one of the stories I wished would have come to a complete circle where we see this poor man who's just broken down and find out what happened to him. I guess people are going to call this review stupid and think that I didn't understand it or don't appreciate the "imagination" factor, but honestly it's one of those endings I just felt a little cheated. But it is the performances that made this movie for me, they were real and gritty. It's the actors and the story that make The Wrestler worth watching.7/10
I didn't know what to expect when I decided to rent About a Boy, it looked like a typical romantic comedy. Now don't get me wrong, I absolutely love Hugh Grant, he's got such a charm, I think that's why we can all forgive that little prostitute incident, lol. But anyways, for the most part, Hugh Grant always takes on the same roles for each movie, About a Boy is no exception, he plays a conceited jerk, but this movie put a fresh new twist on your typical romantic comedy movies. It's just always the same story now with romantic comedies, we always have the same guy and girl who fight and fall in love, but About a Boy puts a different look and brings the single mothers in with a guy who absolutely hates kids. Who better to play it? Hugh Grant has that charm to do it and make his character lovable despite his flaws.Will is a single bachelor who is enjoying his life, so much, well, maybe a little too much. His friends are telling him that he should settle down, so they set up him up with a single mother. He hates kids with a passion, but he discovers the benefits of dating a single mother: being complimented on being a wonderful guy, lots of sex, and being able to please the kids easily. So when he goes to a single parent's group, he finds a woman he likes, the woman's friend who has a 12 year old son, Marcus, they all go on picnic together. But Marcus's mother tries to kill herself, so he comes up with the clever idea to get them together so she won't feel so lonely.About a Boy is just in general a good movie, it has a strong story and very good actors. Hugh Grant and Nicholas Hoult were very great together, I just loved how they hung out together, my favorite scene was after everyone finds out how Will lied to everyone, that Marcus defended him. As despicable as Will was, at the same time, we all do make stupid mistakes and just need to learn from them. I really liked this movie, I would recommend it, it's a cute film and worth the watch.7/10
I remember the first time that I saw First Blood, I thought it was going to be a typical silly action movie, but it turned into one of the best action movies I had seen. I remember hearing about the Rambo sequel which was at the time titled "John Rambo" with "Rocky Balboa", I saw Rocky and was very disappointed, so I was assuming the same was going to be with Rambo. But after some promising reviews, I went ahead and saw it today and this is seriously the best action movie in years. I couldn't believe how incredible this movie was, it was brutal, terrifying, but had a great story. Sylvester Stallone still has it, and is incredible, I can't believe how great he looked and how he still hasn't lost his edge. The reason why this movie worked is because I think he really understands John Rambo, this movie could have never worked without his touch.John Rambo lives in Vietnam as a guide of the river, he makes a living collecting snakes for a sport for the villagers. There is a huge war going on, a civil war, where the Vietnamese are brutally killing villagers if not taking their boys and making them into soldiers, and violently raping their women. When a peace group who is convinced that they will change everyone's ways asks John to bring them into the war, they go into more than they expected when they are captured. John has to go back into action to save their lives and bring them back home safely.Rambo is seriously the best film that I have seen so far in 2008, the only thing that was disturbing to me is that the civil war is not far from the truth at all and how brutal it was, but it was nice to have a good guy to root for and have hope that some people can regain their faith in the goodness in people. I was thinking today how weird it is, this is a genuine action movie, the one people have been waiting for years to have, and it took the old school to bring back that exciting feeling. I highly recommend Rambo, believe me, this is an excellent movie and I can't wait to have it on video. Sylvester is back and he's better than ever, Rambo is still awesome and so much fun to watch.10/10
I finally decided to give the Final Destination movies a chance, I didn't want to see them when they were released because of the actors, just a bunch of Dawson Creek teen drama TV actors, and I figured the movie would probably suck or be a Scream rip off. But today I decided that maybe I should give these movies a chance, I heard from a couple people that they were pretty good. I apologize to the writers and director of Final Destination, because this was one of the better horror movies I have seen in a while.Basically, Alex and his fellow students, including four teachers, are going on a field trip to Paris, but Alex has a horrifying nightmare of the plane crashing horribly and exploding killing everyone. Right before they take off, he screams and tells people to get off, but only 6 follow him, one of which is in a fight with him, one of which believes him, one of which who was late for the flight, one of which was a teacher comforting him, one of which was his best friend, and one of which is the girlfriend of the guy who is in a fight with Alex. The plane explodes, killing everyone, thinking they're safe, Alex realizes that they were meant for death and it has a pattern, but it's a matter of playing Death! Final Destination is original and a terrifying story that brings up the interesting subject of fate and destiny and if you make it or things should happen naturally. Not to mention the pretty cool death scenes that occur in this film is any horror fan's dream of watching. This is one of the better horror films of this generation and I'm looking forward to the next sequel.9/10
I never heard of Ghost World until my sister lent me this movie telling me how awesome it was and that I would definitely get into it. So I watched it twice yesterday thinking maybe I was just in a certain mood when I saw it, but actually I came up with the same results, I thought it was just an alright movie. My main problem is that Thora Birch normally plays the same character over and over again, the rebellious teen who doesn't know what she wants. My only plus of the film was seeing Steve Buchemi, he just rocks and I felt so bad for him in this film.Well, Ghost World is about these two "rebelious" teens who have just graduated high school, but Enid(played by Birch) has to take an art class to earn her diploma, while her and her friend are reading a wanted ad for love, they find one for a guy who met a girl at a library and the guy is looking for that girl since he felt a connection, they prank him into a fake blind date. But Enid gets to know him a little later to find that he's a very "cool"(by her standards) guy and they end up having an affair.That's the summed up version of this story, it could go on, because this is your typical Maury Show episode of twisted love and well, I just really didn't like Enid. I think that's maybe what killed the movie for me, because she just wasn't at all a likable character that just needed a good swift kick in the butt. Well, I can tell people for some odd reason love this film, so I know I'm going to get my butt kicked for only giving it a 6, but I just thought it was an alright film, you know? 6/10
I don't know why, but when I was renting video's, I came across Mr. Magorium's Wonder Emporium and just decided to give it a shot. When I saw the trailer to the film, it did not look at all like a great children's classic type of movie. In fact, it just looked plain bad and like another flop waiting to happen. But I figured to just give it a shot, what do I have to loose? I watched it last night and it was better than I was expecting, but still it really wasn't that impressive. The effects are a little much and the actors that were picked out for the film seem a little out of place. Don't get me wrong, I love Natalie Portman, she's beautiful and talented, but she didn't really seem to get into this movie. The only thing that I liked about the film was it's story, it is very magical and brings me back into a Charlie and the Chocolate Factory type of feeling.Molly Mahoney is just your average girl, but she really doesn't believe in herself and has other dreams of being a composer. She works at Mr. Magorium's Wonder Emporium, a toy store that seems to have magical powers. You ask for it and just take a book that was created many years back, it has the toy. But Mr. Magorium himself hires an attorney to help him out and he claims that he is dying, so he wants Molly to take over the business, but it'll take some confidence and magic to pull herself into believing that she can do it.Mr. Magorium's Wonder Emporium is overall a decent movie, it's definitely worth a look, but for me, I think one watch is all I need. Dustin Hoffman though was perfect for the role as Mr. Magorium, he has a great dramatic depth with excellent comedic relief, his character is very touching and makes the film worth the watch. I would recommend this for the family, it's a nice film for the afternoon, but like I said, it just fell short because of it's over the top effects and some of the actors, you'll just have to see it for yourself to understand what I mean.6/10
I saw the trailer for Don't be afraid of the Dark a few months ago and really wanted to see it, I begged my boyfriend but as always he makes fun of the fact how much I love horror movies and didn't take me. So I had to wait for the rental and now I actually find myself thanking him that we didn't waste our money on this stupid movie. I love haunted house stories, I think since Paranormal Activity, everyone has had their eyes back on that genre of horror. So naturally comes a remake from the 70's comes along that was a haunting child horror story and let's make it the most ridicules looking thing you'll ever see in your life.In Blackwood Manor eight-year old Sally Hurst arrives in Rhode Island to live with her father Alex and his girlfriend Kim, both restoring it to put it on the market for their client Mr. Jacoby. Sally is depressed due to her mother forcefully putting her in Alex's care. On the first night of her stay, Sally is given a carousel-styled nightlight, the melodious tune it plays awakening the creatures in the ash pit. The next day, Sally wanders the grounds and finds the hidden basement's skylight. However, one of the workman restoring the house, Mr. Harris, warns her, Alex and Kim not to venture into the basement, although they do regardless. Sally takes interest in the sealed fireplace where she hears the creatures calling her name, and follows the mysterious voices. They are now haunting her and will do anything to get her down into the dark.Where to start with the plot holes in this movie? The creatures are supposedly scared of light yet can walk through a party where there is light everywhere and somehow they could make it under the table? Then how is it that the handy man is attacked by these creatures, getting stabbed all over the place, including the scissors in his shoulder and when the maid comes in he says he had an accident! How you explain that one? The tool box just exploded? Of course you have the cliché where the father doesn't believe his daughter despite numerous episodes of her screaming hysterically that there are things attacking her and then his girlfriend tells him to listen but that's not enough apparently.They also show a lot of these little monsters that are just laughable, I'm sorry but they did not terrify me in the least little bit. You step on them, they're little bugs, no big deal. They don't have any super powers, they have to convince children to follow them with stupid little faces so naturally as an adult this is just stupid. They don't fly, don't hypnotize people, don't have super strength, so it's just lame. The ending didn't make any sense what so ever. The only thing I could give the film credit too is that the atmosphere was creepy. The sets were amazing and did give a good way to give little chills here and there. Also when Sally looks under her sheet to see what creeped under, that was a pretty frightening scene if it wasn't for the silly CGI effects. But it wasn't enough to save the movie sadly. I was really looking forward to this movie, but it was a total let down, it's not scary or enjoyable and honestly after I'm done writing this review I'll probably forget about this movie.2/10
So where do I even begin on one of the most controversial movies of all time? I guess that's why I felt that I had to see Salo, I was very curious. I like to challenge myself when it comes to film and test my limits. When I watched the film Cannibal Holocaust, as disturbing as it was, it had a meaning to it that I really admired. Salo is looked at either as the worst film that you could possibly see or a masterpiece. Before watching the film I read a couple of Pier Paolo Pasolini's poems online, as he is praised for his writing and I have to say that I was in awe. What a soul this man had and I couldn't wait to see Salo. Well, if there was a film ever to test my limits on what I could handle, Salo sure did a good job of testing my gag reflex.Four men of power, the Duke, the Bishop, the Magistrate, and the President agree to marry each other's daughters as the first step in a debauched ritual. With the aid of several collaborating young men, they kidnap 9 young men and 9 women, and take them to a palace. Accompanying them are four middle-aged prostitutes, whose function in the debauchery will be to recount erotically arousing stories for the men of power, who, in turn, will sadistically exploit their victims. The story depicts some of the many days at the palace, during which the four men of power devise increasingly abhorrent tortures and humiliations for their own pleasure. In 120 days, the children experience sheer horror and never ending torture that you would never wish upon anyone.So the question is: is this garbage or a masterpiece? I'm honestly not sure, the way the film is shot is just perfect. It really has this cold feeling to it and almost empty. The acting is also pretty good and your heart is in agony for these children as they are pit against these sadists. They are put through every kind of torture that you can imagine and never wish upon your worst enemy. They are forced into sexual acts, to eat human feces(which looks too real that you will be disturbed), get beaten, and don't know what will happen the next day if they will be let go or be put to execution. You could never imagine or at least want to imagine what they are going through and the terror they must have felt every day.The bad about this film is that maybe it does go too far. I am all for freedom of speech and I totally get why the director wanted to show it, we wouldn't have as much sympathy for the teens. However, it makes you wonder how far he would go for the sake of art. No one ever said that art was safe, but this was really pushing on what your eyes could handle. Also the scenes where the prostitutes were talking about their childhood experiences all going into detail of every sexual moment did drag on quite a bit and while the subject was risky, the whole film plays up that you're waiting for the bad to happen. So there are times where it does feel a bit slow paced. Wither to recommend this film to you is a hard oneI know that I'm going to have a hard tie if I ever watch it again, it's all in the eye of the beholder. But be warned, I can handle a lot of movies, this one definitely did get to me.6/10
Edward Norton and Colin Ferrell, the automatic great duo, they make a perfect team for a movie like this. They're both great actors and will make any movie worth the watch. So my friends and I watched Pride and Glory a little over a week ago, I was hearing mixed reviews on it, but still, when you love these actors as much as I do, you have to see it. So based on my honest opinion, this is a very good story, but the film just needed better editing, it was a little longer than it should have been. Also I didn't really like the ending, although I know they did it more for the cinematic reasons as people wanna see the bad guys pay for their crimes. But Ed, Colin, and even John Voight make this film very watchable and click right on screen. We've seen a million crooked cop movies, I think we're still looking for one that really stands out, but Pride and Glory holds itself well and is watchable.Jimmy is a narc who does pretty much all the dirty work when it comes to busting in on drug dealers, hookers, murderers, rapists, etc. One night though he among other cops receive a call that 4 policemen have been killed in a building with drug dealers. Jimmy is trying to figure out what went wrong only to find out that one of the drug dealers had an inside man who called in advance to warn them that the cops were coming. But one of the policemen that he suspects is his brother in-law who does the best he can to justify all that he is doing.Pride and Glory is a very good story, I'd say though to wait for the rental, but I'm warning you there are some really intense scenes, Colin goes really far in one scene with a baby, I'm a person who has seen every disturbing film known to man, and this scene had my hands over my eyes. If you wanna see this film, you'll see what I'm talking about. There are some shocking lines as well and hurtful, this was just an intense movie and is not for the weak hearted. It's like the more disturbing episode of The Shield in some ways. Ed and Colin work well together and are a great duo, Pride and Glory is a good movie, just needs a little more editing.7/10
I recently bought the DVD that had the back to back sequels of Mad Max 2 and Mad Max 3, so I rented the first Mad Max and was pleasantly surprised on how it was pretty entertaining. So I just finished Mad Max 2 and it was definitely a lot of fun. But I have to tell you watching this film and with the current popularity of fuel in the US and gas prices, this film scared me on how it just might come true in the future, lol. But back onto the film, Mad Max 2 has just as many thrills and exciting stunts as the first Mad Max and has the perfect amount of action that any movie buff could enjoy. This film put Mel Gibson on the map and made his place permanent on the Hollywood scene, he's handsome, talented, and charismatic as the road warrior.Max is living in the apocalyptic era where he has lost his wife, child, and partner to the evil motorcycle gangs that have taken over his land. He's ready for revenge and to bring some sort of peace to the world. He meets a community of survivors and becomes their leader, together they take on the motorcycle gang once and for all to see who rules the land while trying to get their society back together. But that's going to be hard with the leader of the motorcycle gang who just won't quit and will make sure that Max is dead before he can do anything.Max Max 2: The Road Warrior is packed with action, awesome stunts, and terrific actors. The look, the costumes, the sets, the over all feel of the film just makes it a great classic. Mel Gibson was really amazing and such a cool good guy, especially with the little kid who is almost like his side kick. I loved Virginia Hey, she was an awesome Road Warrior Woman, she was beautiful and kicked butt. I highly recommend Mad Max 2, it's a cool action movie that truly delivers and will leave you satisfied.7/10
My mom and sister are absolutely in love with Cabaret, it's like their favorite musical. They have been trying for years to get me to watch the movie, so finally after 21 long years I finally sat down and watched it. I have to say that my mom and sister are very interesting people to love this musical, but I can see how it is so popular, frankly it is "fabulous". The characters are adorable, somewhat odd, but it was all in good fun and it looked like they had a terrific time doing this film.Sally is a performer who has big time dreams of becoming a famous actress one day. Her life changes dramatically though when a handsome young British man, Brian Roberts, comes into her life and just sweeps her off her feet. Together they find a passion that they have needed in their lives for a long time. But another man enters their lives, Maxamilian, who also seduces Sally and Brian into a life of passion, life, and music while the whole world in is in great depression over the Nazi party taking over.Cabaret is a timeless musical that will never die, I'm sure it will be on Broadway for a very very long time. The music was fun and the actors must have an absolute blast with this musical. I would recommend the movie if you are into musicals, this is a semi-strange film, but I think that you'll get a good kick out of it. After all, in there life is beautiful.7/10
I have heard quite a bit about Blade Runner lately, from a friend, on TV, my movie book, and my mom, so I wanted to see what all the fuss was about, so I rented it and just watched it tonite and I have to say that this was a very strange and disturbingly beautiful film. My only problem with it, is that it was just the more expensive Terminator in some ways. But I did enjoy the story, despite how weird it was, it is a film I haven't really seen. I loved the effects, it just amazes me how realistic they were compared to today's technology, not to mention the moral of the story still needs to be recognized in today's society.In the year 2019, we have created a type of machine, looks and acts like a human, only they are stronger and smarter, they are called Replicants. But due to a violent act they are forbidden from entering planet Earth; 4 replicants have made it to Earth and want their lives expanded from 4 years to so many more. Rick Deckard, a retired Blade Runner, rejoins the force to stop these replicants, but ends up realizing who might be the true enemy.It's very interesting and very visually stunning, but I wasn't incredibly impressed, at least with all the hype I heard with it. I can understand why, because it was a huge break through for the time, but still for me, I enjoy the Terminator films when it comes to a futuristic robot film. But I would never not recommend this movie, just for the sake that you can say you saw it, and you never know, I think you'll give it a proud 10, but I'm going to stick with my rating.7/10
When Madagascar was first released, I was one of the people who was against the weird looking animation and really didn't want to give it a chance. But I had rented it anyways and decided to give it a fair chance, I actually loved the side characters the best vs. our main characters. I don't know, the main characters always seemed kind of bland to me. The penguins and King Julien are just hilarious and are a great balance between serious and wacky humor. But the second film really picked up and even the main characters became a little more interesting. I honestly didn't realize how popular these movies were to spawn another sequel. But I couldn't resist the penguins, they're just too hilarious. So naturally I saw this opening weekend and was left with a surprise that this actually topped the second film in story and jokes.Still in Africa, Alex suggests to Marty, Melman, and Gloria that they should go to Monte Carlo to get the penguins to fly them back to New York City, which they agree to. In Monte Carlo, the penguins and the two chimpanzees keep winning in gambling until Alex's gang's attempt to reach them blunders and sparks chaos in the Hotel De Paris. Hotel security calls Monaco Animal Control officer Captain Chantel DuBois to deal with the animals. But rather than capture them live, DuBois desires them, mainly Alex, dead as trophies. During a high-speed chase between the relentless DuBois and the animals in a truck driven by the penguins to reach their aircraft, the animals barely manage to elude her. They escape but the airplane fails once again and they land in France. Getting on a train with a circus group, who is in a competition to win a trip to New York, Alex takes the opportunity to lead the group and get back to America once and for all.I have two major grips in this film and it's two songs: Afro Circus and Firework by Katie Perry. Now with Afro Circus, for some reason they are trying so hard to push this song down our throats during the trailer, it gets annoying very fast. Firework I've heard way too many times to the point where I want to strangle it! I know this is nitpicking, but that's how bad I hate these songs. But if it wasn't for these two songs, honestly, it would have been a perfect animated movie. The animation is bright and colorful and you can tell the love that was put into this film. I didn't see the 3D version and did regret that because I think the 3D would have been worth it. The penguins are still great of course and always provide a great laugh. They're basically like Patton, they take themselves way too seriously but still get the job done. King Julien has a fling with a circus bear that is just too hilarious and will have you in stitches. I loved how they kept the face of the bear very life like, almost looking like it's just a blank expression as Julien is professing his love to her. I really did enjoy Madagascar 3, it's definitely the best of the series and worth the watch.9/10
Slumdog Millionaire, the best film of 2008 by far, I saw this back in December after hearing a little bit about it on the net. I was so excited to see that it was playing at my local theater and I didn't hesitate to see it when it was released. There are a lot of people who are just asking why this film is so popular or loved, the reason why in my opinion is that it's just a happy film. We usually have a best picture winner that is depressing, but instead Slumdog Millionaire just lifts your spirits and makes you cry in joy. I couldn't believe how much I loved this film, after reading a summary on what it was about, I was just confused and wondering if this film was really going to be good. But we have these unknown young actors: Dev Peitel, Freida Pinto and Madhur Mittal who pull in heart wrenching performances and you can't help but love their characters and just keep rooting for them. All in all, this film is a love story. Most film lovers fear those words after Titanic because everyone thought it to be a predictable puppy love story, this love story however is made in strength and faith and you can't help but keep wanting Jamal and Latika to be together. Even though I saw the film a while back, I still remember it like I saw it yesterday.A title card is presented: "Jamal Malik is one question away from winning 20 million rupees. How did he do it? A) He cheated, B) He's lucky, C) He's a genius, D) It is written." Jamal is a contestant on the Indian version of Who Wants to Be a Millionaire? hosted by Prem Kumar in which he was on the show and won 20,000,000 rupees (about US$500,000). Jamal then explains that, while at least the question about Bollywood superstar Amitabh Bachchan was very simple, he knew the answers of most questions by chance, because of things that happened in his life. This is conveyed in a series of flashbacks documenting the details of his childhood. This includes scenes of him obtaining Bachchan's autograph, the death of his mother during the Hindu anti-Muslim violence, rekindling the memory of the 1993 anti-Muslim attacks in Mumbai by Hindu nationalists in the slums, and how he and his brother Salim befriend Latika. The children are eventually discovered by Maman while they live in the trash heaps. Maman is a gangster who "collects" street children so that he can ultimately train them to beg for money. Salim is groomed to become a part of Maman's operation and is asked to bring Jamal to Maman in order to be blinded. Salim protects his brother, and the three children try to escape; but only Salim and Jamal are able to do so. Latika is re-captured by Maman's organization and raised as a culturally talented prostitute whose virginity will fetch a high price. The brothers eke out a living, traveling on top of trains, selling goods, pretending to be tour guides at the Taj Mahal, and picking pockets. Jamal eventually insists that they return to Mumbai since he wishes to locate Latika. When he finds her working as a dancer in a brothel, the brothers attempt to rescue her, but Maman intrudes, and in the resulting conflict Salim draws a gun and kills Maman. Salim then uses the fact that he killed Maman to obtain a job with Javed a rival crime lord. Salim claims Latika as his own and when Jamal protests, Salim threatens to kill him and Latika intervenes, accepting her fate with Salim. Years later, Jamal has a position at a call center. When he is asked to cover for a co-worker for a couple of minutes, he searches the database for Salim and Latika. He gets in touch with Salim, who has become a high-ranking lieutenant in Javed's organization. Jamal confronts a regretful Salim on tense terms. Salim invites Jamal to live with him and after following Salem, he sees Latika living there. He talks his way in as the new chef and tries to convince Latika to leave. She tries to discourage him, but on the first day that Jamal waits at the train station, Latika attempts to escape with him, but is recaptured by Salim and Javed's men. One of the men then slashes her cheek with a knife, scarring her as Salim drives off, leaving Jamal with the onlooking crowd. Jamal again loses contact with Latika when Javed moves to another house. In another attempt to find Latika, Jamal tries out for the popular game show because he knows that she will be watching.I cannot wait for this movie to be released on DVD, it's a terrific uplifting movie that just captures your heart and makes you feel good. I couldn't believe that people were just complaining about the ending dance sequence, it was a TERRIFIC way to end it, to see everything that Jamal went through and that dance just makes you feel happy because you can tell the joy of him having his Latika in his arms. It was a beautiful ending and makes you extremely joyful. The story is brutal, funny, sad, original and beautiful. Danny Boyle, I knew that this director had something special when he made the horror film 28 Days Later, but who knew he could pull of such an uplifting beautifully made film? He picked the perfect actors, made the film wonderfully, and the whole crew seemed to enjoy making this together. Who wouldn't? It was a pleasure to watch on the screen and if you haven't seen this film in the theater, buy it when it comes on DVD, it's one of the most terrific experiences I've had watching a film. We haven't had a film like Slumdog Millionaire and it's one of my new favorite films of all time.10/10
Hmmm, The Final Destination, the fourth in the series. Now surprisingly when I saw the first Final Destination film I was taken back, this was a good horror movie. As well as the second Final Destination, if it wasn't even better than the first, this is a strong series, even the third one has it's moments that made it entertaining enough. The problem with The Final Destination is now that it's becoming more about the deaths, it's turning into the Saw and Hostel movies where it's just there to gross people out vs. telling a story with it. The acting is just horrible and the deaths are just getting more and more unrealistic as well as the script, which I think they were just trying to insult the audience by using the exact same story as before instead of re-vamping it.Nick and his friends, Lori, Hunt and Janet are enjoying watching a car race at the speedway. Nick has a premonition in which he foresees the horrific demise of himself and his friends after a car crashes at high speed, sending debris into the crowd, and thus causing the stadium to partially collapse. Janet, now scared by Nicks premonition, agrees to leave, prompting Lori and Hunt to also leave. A handful of spectators become angry after Nick pushes past them to escape. While outside the stadium with security guard in tow, the group witnesses the almighty crash that Nick had foreseen. When the group of friends think that everything is alright and that they happened to survive, all of a sudden all the survivors of the crash are turning up dead. Death is angry and he wants his victims and is coming for each and everyone one of them.See, the problem is that despite that we have some very fun deaths, this movie was pretty much pointless, no plot and just boring actors. Being in 3D in most theaters, at least it does take advantages of the death scenes that are pretty gruesome, I do have to give the film credit on entertaining for these over the top death scenes. But how in the heck when the friends are finding out about Nick having these "premonitions", they pretty much accept it without question. Also Death just seems to be angry, instead of killing someone simply with a heart attack or something, he plays the Mouse Trap of deaths. See, if you're looking for a pointless horror movie with just some good gore, this is the movie for you. If you're looking for intelligence, this is definitely not the movie for you. I'd say this is a rental for the most part, just because it can entertain on some levels, but don't expect to be enlightened, it's pretty stupid.3/10
I just saw Blood Diamond and I didn't know what to expect, because when I saw the trailer, it just didn't look that exciting to me. I wasn't even sure what this was about, but after the Oscar nods it got and a fantastic review from my friend, I figured that I should check it out. I have to say that this film just broke my heart, it was so good, but so depressing. I never realized how brutal it was to go through these diamond mines, and men turning against their own brothers so quickly, it was so incredibly horrifying to watch and just utterly heart wrenching. But it was so well done and presented, the actors were just incredible and touched my heart, their stories were so uncomfortable and aching to witness, but just so inspirational.In Africa there is a huge civil war going on, the RUFF's are fighting to keep their diamonds and not hand them over to the government, even if it means destroying villages of their own kind and making men into slaves and turning young boys into brutal killing soldiers. Danny Archer has come to get a priceless diamond that a slave, Solomon, has hidden, Danny promises to help get Solomon's family back if Solomon gets the diamond and gives it to him. Solomon's heart breaks even further when he discovers that his son has been taken hostage to become a soldier and has been brainwashed to turn against his own father, but Danny's mind is only set on that diamond and will do whatever he can to get it.I loved Danny's character, Leonardo did such a fantastic job, Danny's heart was so cold in the beginning, but he did such a noble thing for Solomon and his son, but I won't give away what he did, this is a movie you have to see. It's a movie that will keep you thinking after it's finished, I can tell you one thing, I will never look at diamonds the same way again, this movie got under my skin, I think it will for you too.9/10
Wow, I honestly cannot believe how Superman became so famous if these movies were anything to go by, because the forth installment started off very well, but ended up with a ton of mistakes. It wasn't just the story, because the story worked very well, but not to spoil anything, but Lex wants a strand of Superman's hair that supposedly can hold 1000 pounds, he not only just cuts the strand from the museum, you'll see what I mean, but it also snaps in his hand. And that girl Lucy, somehow could breathe in space, not to mention, is it a good idea to hurl nuclear missiles at the sun? Well, Superman is still struggling to keep his identity, which miraculously no one has still caught onto yet, and they even changed how he makes people forget if they've seen the real him. Well, Lucy, the big time Daddy's girl is now the publisher at the newspaper company that Louis and Clark are at. When they receive a letter from a little boy asking Superman to destroy all nuclear missiles to save the world, but Superman has a bigger problem when Lex Luther escapes and makes Nuclear Man, a man who is as equally strong, with one flaw, he needs the sun to keep up.Superman IV isn't a bad movie, but it wasn't made too well, and it didn't seem too well thought out. Christopher Reeve also just seemed tired of doing Superman, it just wasn't his best. But if you are looking to finish the Superman series, then be my guest, but otherwise, I'd recommend to stay away, because it's not that well thought out.4/10
After the sorrow disappointment that was Ocean's Twelve, I was not at all interested in seeing Ocean's Thirteen since I had a feeling it was just going to be the same thing again. But when people were seeing this film, I was hearing good things about the film. So I figured I would just wait until the rental, I just watched this film yesterday and still, I'm not a huge fan of the Ocean movies, but Thirteen is a good movie. The cast really looked like they had a great time making the film and Al Pacino was a great addition, he makes such a great bad guy. For once, I have to say that Matt Damon actually did a great job in film, I know people are going to bash me for that, but he never keeps my attention in films, but he had a great role to play in Thirteen and was a great comic relief. The story is continued with our hunky heist men.The gang is now suffering paying back the millions that they stole from Terry, so they're not exactly in the mood to get back together any time soon. But when one of their own is betrayed and double crossed by the new man in Vegas, Will Banks, they are out for revenge. Since Will is making a huge splash, he has a casino, a hotel, and millions of dollars worth of diamonds, the boys have to got to find a way to get to his heart. They band together to get this guy back and get their old schemes back in play.Ocean's Thirteen was a lot of fun to watch, it had a bunch of twists and turns at each point. I think my favorite part though was when Matt Damon was posing as Pepperidge and he was seducing Bank's assistant, even though it was a silly moment, it brought a lot of comic relief and the girl was just so funny. Not to mention how they got the diamonds out of the casino was so cool and was great eye candy. The cast did a great job and Thirteen is definitely worth the look. It was a whole lot better than Twelve, let's hope they keep it that way.7/10
I was really excited to see The Queen, I'm 21 years old, and was 12 years old when Princess Diana died in that tragic car accident. But I was very curious to see a different perspective on the subject, because I am going to be honest, I was very harsh on the queen and the royal family during the mourning process and how they handled it. But after this movie I realized something, Queen Elizabeth is also a human being.This movie is set mainly in the aftermath of Princess Di's death and how the royal family and England handled the tragedy. The thing I didn't realize was that loosing Princess Diana was like England's 9/11 and how tragic it was. Everyone of course wanted the queen to quickly respond and help those who were also mourning in England. But the thing people don't realize is how she is giving herself to her country first and herself second.I loved how they showed a different perspective and helped most of the audience realize that the Royal Family are people too. They deal with grief in their own ways and had a lot to inhale those few weeks. Merrin was absolutely stunning in her role as the queen, she was so dignified and elegant, I'm sure she'll be up for a nomination during the Oscars. I would highly recommend The Queen, it was an excellent film and one of my new favorites of 2006.9/10
So the third and "final" chapter in the Ice Age story, using the term "final" loosely because these films always claim to be the last one. But I'm not complaining about Ice Age, it's such a fun story and they are great films with fun characters. So I watched Ice Age: Dawn of the Dinosaurs last night and had a good time with this great animated film. I honestly was a little held back because for some reason a few critics had given the movie bad reviews saying it was pretty much the same thing as the other movies. I didn't see that at all, I loved the new character of Buck in the group, he was too cool for words and was very awesome that he was voiced by the very funny Simon Pegg. The animation was absolutely stunning, the whole world of the dinosaurs was just incredible to watch. The story was also a great part of the films, we get a lot of action and great comedy. I just loved the story between Sid and his T-Rex kids and of course Scrat having a girlfriend was too cute for words.Ellie and Manny are expecting their first child, and Manny is obsessed with making life perfect and safe for the family, since his first experiences as a husband and father went bad when his family was killed by hunters. At the same time, Diego finds himself unable to catch a cocky gazelle he has been stalking and decides to leave the herd, believing that he is losing his predatory nature as a tiger. Sid grows jealous of Manny and Ellie and "adopts" three apparently abandoned eggs that he finds in an icy underground cavern. Although Sid tries his best to raise the three dinosaurs, their rambunctious behavior scares away all the other animals' young and ruins a playground Manny built for Ellie's baby. A female Tyrannosaurus, Momma, whose eggs Sid stole, soon returns and carries both Sid and her young underground, with Diego in pursuit. Manny, Ellie, Crash, and Eddie follow as well and discover that the icy cavern leads to a vast jungle where the dinosaurs they thought to be extinct have a beautiful world and are very much alive.Ice Age was definitely worth the watch, again for all the negative reviews that it got, I won't understand. I know this is not the stand out movie of 2009, but it was a pleasure to watch for me. I think for the whole family this was just a fun movie to watch. It has a lot of fun action scenes, I loved Buck's stories about him and the legend of Rudy, a dinosaur bigger and badder than the T-Rex that was a lot of fun. I know that the "cutesy" part of the movie was a little over the top with the babies, but it's all good I think. Once again, it doesn't have to win Oscars, but why not enjoy a movie if it's making you laugh and smile? Now if you love the Scrat story, you will absolutely have a good time with where they take you on his eternal journey to get that acorn, he falls in love with an acorn stealing girlfriend where he has to decide which is more important, the acorn or true love? Between the story, the animation and the new characters of Buck and the baby T-Rex's, I think that Dawn of the Dinosaurs was the best story yet in these movies. I would recommend this movie for anyone who loves animated films or those who just enjoy Ice Age.8/10
OK, I've questioned some ratings before, but for the most part I usually just let it go very easily. But I'm curious, how in the world, no, universe, does Terminator Salvation get a rating above 7.0? This was 2 hours of my life that I will never get back and I should've known better when I saw a director who's name is "McG" on the screen, James Cameron must be shuddering. This film had so much incredible potential but ended up turning into Action Film 101, I don't even think the title of the movie should have been Salvation, it should have been Terminator: Let's Blow *bleep* Up! The story was so beyond stupid, the effects are way over the top, they also were trying so hard to be liked by the fans that they stole every cool line from the first two terminator films, and what the F was up with Christian Bale bringing his Batman voice back into this movie?! Despite the confusing movie, I'll try to give you a clear enough summary.In 2003, Dr. Serena Kogan of Cyberdyne Systems convinces death row inmate Marcus Wright to sign his body over for medical research following his execution by lethal injection. In 2018, John Connor leads an attack by the Resistance on a Skynet base. John discovers human prisoners and the plans for the development of a new type of Terminator incorporating living tissue, but is the only apparent survivor of the attack after the base is destroyed in a nuclear explosion. However, Marcus emerges from the wreckage of the base and proceeds on foot to Los Angeles. Meanwhile, the Resistance has discovered a radio frequency capable of shutting down Skynet machines. They plan to launch an offensive against the Skynet base in San Francisco in four days, in response to an intercepted "kill list" indicating that Skynet plans to kill the Resistance's command staff in four days' time. John learns that his own name is second on the list, following Kyle Reese. Nobody realizes why they must keep Kyle safe but Conor knows that he must send Kyle back to save the future.Never have I ever wanted so badly to hurt a director before, I just couldn't believe this movie. Who was the main character? Who was I supposed to root for? Now I was 7 years old when I discovered the Terminator films, can't tell you how they changed my life, they were the reason I adore action movies to this day. But they were also more then action movies, they told incredible stories and were displayed on film in such an excellent way, I just can't tell you how wonderful the experience was. This was just agonizing, I mean, a retarded jellyfish could make a better movie then this. They kept going with a confusing story line to explain everything at the end and by that time I just didn't care. The actors, the story, the effects and setting of the film was just horrible, Terminator Salvation is a shameful movie and if was a person, should be shot.1/10
George A. Romero, the king of the zombies, or at least zombie movies. This man has made some incredible pieces of horror that constantly leave us with nightmares and a new perspective on society and our behavior. Dawn of the Dead was remade a few years ago and was one of the best remakes you could see, it had a lot of respect for the original and didn't over step it's boundaries. The Crazies is a little bit of a lesser known film, but if you're a Romero fan, you know the movie obviously. But I checked out The Crazies when it was first released and was a little puzzled, not so sure what I thought about it afterwards. I had to really think this review over, because obviously the idea is a great one, not to mention very haunting. A small town where pretty much everyone knows EVERYTHING about you, everyone is very close, all of a sudden they are struck with a disease that is causing them to go into a killing spree. Having to decide who is sick and who's not, making it out of a town that is surrounded by the government who does not want anyone to make it out alive was brutal to watch. I think that's what had thrown me off was how uncomfortable the whole plot made me because if this situation was real, the film handled it in the best way possible, as realistic as they could.Judy Dutton finishes paperwork at the local hospital alongside employee Becca Darling while her husband, Sheriff David Dutton, enjoys a local high school baseball game. Dutton's deputy, Russell Clank, spots Rory Hamill, a resident entering the outfield with a gun. David tries to get him to drop his weapon but is forced to shoot and kill Rory. David and Judy begin to notice strange behavior in other town residents; they are slow to respond to questions and repetitive in their answers. The next night, Bill Farnum a local farmer kills his wife Deardra and son Nicholas. David and Russell investigate a dead soldier who is found in the woods and eventually find a crashed plane that has leaked a toxin into the water supply. Infected residents become extremely aggressive, attacking and killing other people. David tries to convince Judy to leave town but they are captured by soldiers and taken to a temporary military facility at the high school. Meanwhile, David escapes from a group of people being released and rejoins Russell. The two go to the high school and get there to save Judy and Becca, the group begins walking out of town, hiding from both the infected and the military along the way.The actors work very well together, I'm glad we don't have the "big name" actors in this remake, so it doesn't take away from the plot and makes it a little more gritty. There are also some incredibly scary scenes, I'm not a big fan of the "jump scares" as the movie does use plenty of those and it does lose a few points on that, but there is a scene where they're caught in a car wash where these "zombies" are attacking our leads while they can't clearly see where they stand and how they will attack. There is a scene that I loved but didn't make much sense, we have the wife walk into her baby room where right behind her are some neighbors that have the disease, not fully transformed yet, but somehow in the next scene she's tied up very quickly, didn't understand how that could have happened. But over all, despite a few flaws, the film works very well and is very gritty. It's a good remake that is going to leave you with a few nightmares.7/10
I had been hearing mixed reviews on Remember Me, but my friend had rented this movie and asked if I wanted to watch it with her. I figured I would give the movie a fair chance. Robert Pattinson is an actor who is trying to get out of his Twilight stereotype, so doing a dark drama with his brooding look that I had on my face the whole time while watching this film was such a "stretch". Honestly, I'm not being mean, he's just not a good actor, he's still got a very long way before he gets out of the stereotype. So for the film, before the ending I really thought it was an alright film. I didn't really feel for the characters as this was a pretty manipulative film trying to get you to be constantly sad and not lightening up on your emotions, but then the ending. I cannot describe the HATRED I have for this film, the tragic event of 9/11 is used to pull our heart strings and all I kept thinking was "oh, no, no, no, no, no no NO!" I told my friend to turn of the movie because I was so beyond angry. Anyone who dares defend this movie to me, I will question your taste in film and human suffering, even my friend said they went too far. This is one of the worst movies I have ever seen in my life and I hate everybody that was involved in it.Tyler Hawkins, a moody, directionless 21 year-old, is auditing classes at NYU and working in a bookstore. He has had a strained relationship with his businessman father, Charles since his brother Michael's suicide. Charles appears to lack concern for Tyler's younger sister, Caroline, to whom Tyler is very close. One night, Tyler and his roommate Aidan find themselves in trouble with the police. Later, Aidan sees Neil, the police officer who roughed Tyler up, dropping Ally, his daughter, off at NYU. He decides to retaliate against the detective by persuading Tyler to sleep with and ultimately dump Ally. After spending some time together, Ally and Tyler bond over the losses in their lives and begin to fall for each other. After Ally sleeps over at Tyler's house, she and her father have a fight, ending with Neil hitting her. Ally then moves in with Tyler and Aidan. Neil breaks into Tyler's apartment and confronts Tyler. Tyler provokes Neil by confessing to Aidan's plan and his initial reason for meeting Ally, which in turn forces Tyler to confess everything to Ally. She leaves him angrily and returns to her father's home. But Tyler is still in love with Ally and hopes to reunite with her.Robert Pattinson is trying to pull a James Dean, very Rebel without a Cause and it's not working out too well. The great performance out of this film was from the child who played his sister, Ruby Jerins, she was the only interesting character. Even Pierce Brosnan's character who is supposed to be the "bad guy" through most of the film, I understood his character more than Roberts'. He's made to look not caring, but when you learn what he does for the family and even though he sacrifices time with them for his work, it happens. He's paying for Rob's apartment and school and he's complaining all the time to his dad. The chemistry between Rob and Emile was OK, nothing special. But like I said, this went from an alright film to the ultimate slap in the face. If they were going to kill Rob's character, that's fine, but why 9/11?! What was the point?! Shame on the director, the writer and anyone who thought that this was OK to put in this movie like that! To those who voted this movie a 7 or above, I have nothing to say but it's a shame about the lack of human compassion. This movie is a pain and I hated it, I haven't been this angry about a film in a long time, that's saying a lot. If I could rate lower, I would.1/10
I am not a Jennifer Garner fan, to be honest, I just had no interest in seeing 13 going on 30, it looked like such a chick flick rip off of Big. But my friend told me about it and said that it was such a cute movie, so I rented it and we watched it together, I was actually trying to hold some laughter in because I didn't want to admit that I might have actually liked this movie, but I have to be honest, I guess I actually enjoyed 13 going on 30! It was really cute and was a sweet movie that worked very well, Jennifer did a good job on playing Jenna, I actually felt so bad for her, her feeling like she had no control over how she acted over the years before she turned 30. Well, I guess I should tell you a little about the movie.Jenna is a 13 year old teenage girl who wants to fit in and be apart of the in-crowd. But when the in-crowd plays a nasty joke on her at her birthday party, she wishes that she could be 30 and flirty, her wish comes true and she wakes up to a great apartment with a hot naked man in it, she's not only the one of the top editors of her favorite magazine, but she's also a person that not too many people would want to be around since it seems like she was a sleazy and manipulative woman. But Jenna knows she's better than that and hooks up with her old best friend, Matt, to help her rediscover her past and find out how she could change her current reputation.13 going on 30 was actually a charming film that I'm sure you'll enjoy. It was very cute and had some very funny moments. I loved the Thriller dance sequence, it was so great, and Jenna hitting on the 13 year old guy was so cute. I would recommend 13 going on 30 for a fun afternoon, I think you'll get a kick out of it, it's a new Big for a new generation.6/10
LOL, my mom just bought me this year the Prada perfume and the Prada bag since I'm a fashion nut, so I was very much looking forward to seeing the movie "The Devil Wears Prada", but before seeing the movie I wanted to read the book and the book actually didn't really thrill me. But still I wanted to see the movie so I decided to just wait for the rental and honestly, I think I really did like The Devil Wears Prada, it had great acting and portrayed the harder parts of life that makes you driven for your "dream job".Amanda is a girl who isn't exactly "fashion city", she's a thin(not skinny), smart, and frumpy woman who is looking to be an editor, but through fashion icon Miranda Priestly, she becomes her assistant hoping to meet other writers and editors to open doors. But working for Miranda isn't easy since it seems like she took business lessons from Hitler and bullies people around. But Amanda decides to bite back by becoming one vogue looking woman and Miranda's best assistant ever, but things are not looking up when she begins to loose everything she truly loves.I would recommend The Devil Wears Prada for an afternoon with the girls, honestly, please don't think this is sexist, I'm not sure if this movie is for the guys, but who knows? But I would say that The Devil Wears Prada is a genuine good film that had great acting, a fun story, and hidden laughter. Meryl Streep did a fantastic job and she really makes the movie worth watching.7/10
I saw the first teaser trailer for Horton Hears a Who a few months ago, and I have to say that it was a little off putting, it looked kind of strange and like it might be another Cat in the Hat lousy movie, but then they started advertising it a little more and it looked more cute. So I decided to check the film out today and I am really impressed, so far I'd say this is the best animated film of 2008 that I've seen. I remember reading the book as a child, it's one of my old time favorite's, you could never go wrong with Dr. Suess. When it comes to his films being put up on the silver screen, excluding the 40 minute cartoon classic How the Grinch Stole Christmas, other films like The Grinch and The Cat in the Hat have been ultimate flops and horrible. But Horton Hears a Who proves otherwise and is a wonderful film to watch.Horton is an elephant just enjoying life, he's a teacher and is loved very much by the little animals of the jungle. But his life is about to change when he sees a little speck and saves it, inside this speck is a little town of Whoville. The mayor of Whoville has asked Horton to take them to a safe place before his town is destroyed. Seems like an easy enough task for Horton, until an angry mother, Kangaroo, feels like Horton and his speck are a bad influence amongst the children, and wishes to destroy the speck and trap Horton.Horton Hears a Who is such a wonderful film. For a book that you can finish in half an hour, they did a great job filling in other lines and such great jokes. The great thing is there is no pop culture or over the top jokes, they just go old school and make this film fun and original. The actors seemed like they just had a great time getting into character, Steve Carell and Jim Carrey are a brilliant combination, so their voices added a lot to the film. The animation was clever and colorful, it was a joy to watch. I very much recommend Horton Hears a Who, it's a terrific family film and just a fun movie to watch for the afternoon, I think Dr. Suess would be very proud too.9/10
We have just gotten over the big craze that was Jessica Alba, which I felt so bad for the girl, someone gets brutally publicized and rubbed in your face for how hot they are and how hot you'll never be, they tend to become box office poison and bashed by the public. So naturally when The Eye was released this year, it didn't make number one and was automatically canned as a bad movie; me? I just preferred to wait for the rental, I watched The Eye at home the other night and actually it wasn't as bad as I was expecting from some of the comments here on IMDb, I was expecting this to be a terrible movie. Normally most of the American remakes of Japanese horror films are, but The Eye does deliver some good scares, until the ending. Not to mention, bad casting, Jessica Alba is fine, the script is bad, and for a blind woman who lives alone, she dresses very well and her hair is perfect. The script just wasn't realistic and the actors over did a lot of the movie and it makes you just want to scream at the screen.Sydney Wells is blind, lives alone, plays the violin, and everyone just loves her. She finally gets an eye transplant, everything seems to be going fine, until well, I figured out from this movie, don't just ask if you donor was health, a non smoker, non drinker, drug free, also, ask if they saw dead people. Because that's Sydney's problem, she is seeing people die right in front of her and she has to learn what this power was meant for and must find out about the donor and her creepy history.Now The Eye has some creepy moments, though I'm not a big fan of the jump scares, they got me a few times. But once again, the CGI, it's very noticeable and cheesy, was it just me, or did it seem like the creatures that took these people's souls to wherever, were just a cheap rip off of Ghost? Not to mention that the script was cheesy and the ending wasn't up to par with what this film could have been. I know there are lovers of the film and there are haters, but I can't help but be between because the movie had potential, there are just some flaws here and there. Jessica Alba being perfectly beautiful throughout the film, the lines, the way it seems like every "crazy" person really does act crazy throughout the film and shows everyone how crazy they are, just you'll see what I mean if you watch this film.5/10
Well, most of you know my hatred for romantic comedies, a constant clichéd story that is so beyond old but somehow always makes some money. But one thing that stood out to me when I saw the trailer for It's Complicated was that the cast was older and better actors and a different story. I like the grown up romantic comedies, not to mention that it's rated R, so we have more realistic situations vs. a PG-13. So I saw It's Complicated tonite, I really did enjoy this movie. I liked how grown up it was and how a relationship isn't always as black and white as the younger generation likes to think it is. All the characters, even as much of a jerk like Alec Baldwin was in the movie, everyone is pretty likable in some manner. Especially Steve Martin who I just fell in love with and was very possibly the most realistic character ever written for a romantic comedy. The story is handled with maturity and has some really great laughs as we discover the way that some relationships can be so complicated.Jane is a self-reliant divorcée who owns a successful bakery. After 10 years of separation and three grown children, she finally achieves a good relationship with her ex-husband Jake, a successful attorney who has remarried the much-younger Agness. Jane and Jake attend their son Luke's college graduation in New York. A dinner together develops into an affair, making Jane "the other woman". Part of Jane knows it is wrong, since Jake and Agness are still married and trying to have a baby; the other part of Jane relishes being "the other woman" and continues the affair with Jake. Jake is just enjoying the clandestine sex and doesn't show much interest in Jane's growth as a person. He however feels nostalgic for the family life he once had with Jane, particularly her cooking, and being close with his children, and wonders if he should be growing old with Jane rather than starting a new family with Agness. Complicating matters is Adam, an architect hired to remodel Jane's home, who is himself healing from a divorce of his own, and who has begun to fall in love with Jane. He spends time getting to know her as a person, eventually falling in love with Jane as well.I have divorced parents, so one of the things I appreciated was how they addressed the adult kids trying to deal with their parents playing this mysterious affair with each other. I'm also so glad that it didn't end on a typical cliché, but I don't want to spoil it too much. The performances are really great in the movie as well, Meryl looks as lovely as ever and always plays her charismatic charm so well. Her chemistry with Alec and Steve was very on key, almost making you wish she could have both of them in her life romantically. Alec played his character very well, I felt that his character got more from a forbidden affair than him just missing his ex. Some people are naturally like that, he wanted a bunch of good feelings back and he got that with Meryl realizing that maybe the wife he has currently isn't what was expected. Steve Martin is just fantastic and such a pleasure to watch. The film is made pretty well and I'd say the story came across very clear as you can have your own conclusions why some people need closure to a relationship and how they handle it and why. For that reason, I recommend It's Complicated for the grown up's, for those who are looking for the mature romantic comedy.7/10
There are times where I question myself, this being one of those times. When I saw the trailer for Jonah Hex, I have to admit that it looked kind of fun in my eyes. But I started reading the reviews and stayed away until I would see it on TV or rented it. Well I found a Blockbuster that was closing and bought the movie figuring three dollars isn't much to take a risk if I liked the movie. After all, people sometimes take things way too seriously and I wanted to give this film the benefit of doubt. Thanks very much to Jimmy Hayward for making me the biggest fool.During the American Civil War, Jonah Hex served as a cavalryman until his commanding officer, Quentin Turnbull, ordered him to burn down a hospital. Hex refused, and was forced to kill his best friend, Turnbull's son Jeb. After the war, Turnbull Burke ties up Hex and force him to watch as his house is burned down with his wife and son inside. Days later, American Indians find Jonah and revive him with their mystical powers. While they did manage to bring Jonah, for the most part, back from the dead, they couldn't bring all of him back. As a result Jonah acquired the ability to, as long as he maintains physical contact with the corpse, temporarily resurrect and communicate with the dead. Hex satisfies his hunger for vengeance by turning to bounty hunting and has his eyes set on Turnball.So the film started off decently, despite it not being a very original story. John Malkovich started off badly and ended badly in his performance, but I figured that Josh Brolin would pick the film up. After all, Josh has coming a long way of protective older brother from The Goonies into a very fine actor. As Jonah Hex he talks and grunts through his teeth and is given no real depth on who he is. He's a father, husband and soldier, that's about it. So I'm assuming you have to read the graphic novel in order to understand his character, thanks to the movie depending on you having to read the material before seeing the movie. So no character development and corny acting, maybe the action scenes will be good? No, they manage to screw that up with jump cuts, close up's and weird editing tricks.The strange thing is there was one thing I didn't mind in the film and that was Megan Fox. She's an unneeded character, but is the only one in the film who actually puts a little effort in her performance and that's sad considering she's no Merryl Streep. She out acted the veterans! That's when you know your movie is in trouble. The clichés are a mess and this story has been done to death. I don't mind the whole premise of the movie, but at 81 minutes long, we're not given anything to care about. There are plot holes up the yin yang with Jonah being able to communicate with the dead. The story wasn't edited well and the whole direction of the film is completely out of whack. I have to do you the favor of saying to stay away from this movie, I'll be trading my copy in soonto think that the three dollars could've gone to a yummy coffee for me for 5 minutes of a smile and hyper fun to 81 minutes of a blank stare on my face and a silly cartoon playing in my head, yeah, I so made the right choice on that one.2/10
What haven't I heard about Cannibal Holocaust? Only that it's one of the most disturbing movies of all time and still to this day manages to shock it's audience. Honestly I'm surprised that it took me this long to watch it, but I found the film on Google because I was cautious on paying 20 dollars for a film I never saw. Cannibal Holocaust thankfully is much more than just shocking but actually has a great message to it. The film isn't as shocking as I'm sure it was when it was released but it is a jaw dropper. Mainly due though to the real killings of the animals which is a bit too much to handle. At the time the director was also accused of murdering the three lead actors, talk about motivation, however he made the actors break the contract of silence, since he wanted the audience to think that this was a real film, in order to prove his innocence. Before the Blair Witch Project, there was no film like Cannibal Holocaust, I don't think a film has even touched it's ground since then.There is a television documentary about a missing United States film crew, who disappeared on an expedition to the Amazon to make a documentary about indigenous cannibal tribes. The team was Alan, the director; Faye, script girl; and two cameramen, Jack and Mark. Harold Monroe, an anthropologist, has agreed to lead a rescue team and flies to the Amazon to meet his guides. There the team meets hostility and learn that the film group had caused great unrest among the people. The Ya̧nomamö invite Monroe and his team to their village, where they are treated with suspicion. A group of Ya̧nomamö women take him to a shrine, which he learns holds the bones of the missing American filmmakers. Monroe confronts the Ya̧nomamö about this. After playing a tape recorder for them, he trades it for the first team's surviving reels of film. Back in New York, executives invite Monroe to host a broadcast of a documentary to be made from the recovered film. Monroe wants to see the raw footage first, finding out who might be the real savages after all.Did the animal killings bother me? The turtle scene definitely did, I understand that the meat was used for meals, but it was a bit too much for me to handle the brutality of the killing. I won't go into details, just if you're an animal lover like I am then fast forward through that part too. However, what I did appreciate about the film was how realistic it did look, the director did a great job of finding locations, actors and the over all feel of the film as you feel dirty and embarrassed watching such horror on the screen. While I may not agree with the animal killings, this message of who are the real savages really got to me. I loved that this wasn't about just grossing people out but showing how crazy people can get over money and power. It's really sad and it's weird to think that the documentary crew that went into the project that you thought were originally the victims of such violent tribes were actually the one's who are wild animals and in some sick way deserved the justice that was served to them. While it's a hard movie to watch, I would say that it was worth it, again not for the faint of heart, but a true classic and I'm sure will still shock for many generations to come.8/10
One trilogy I had been dying to see is the Bourne trilogy, so many people just love these movies and I've heard nothing but positive reviews about them. Most people I talk too told me that it's a new James Bond movie. So I borrowed the movies from my boyfriend and watched them this week. Starting off with The Bourne Identity and what a way to start. While I didn't find the film as exciting as I would expect it, it is a very well done action movie. The choreography was awesome and Matt Damon makes for a very strong male lead. His character is the only thing that kept me going through the movie, we start off not knowing who he really is and want to find out with him what happened to him, who he is and why he's wanted dead or alive, though preferably dead. As he goes through heck to find out what is going on and only having one person on his side, a woman who is probably only with him just because he's hot, he finds out that he's almost like the Superman assassin. James Bond would probably say "Well, at least I still have my sexy weapons and lines of hot women waiting to jump my bones".A fishing boat crew finds an unconscious man adrift in the Mediterranean with two gunshot wounds in his back. When he wakes up, the man comes to realize he suffers from amnesia, having only one clue to his identity: the account number to a safe deposit box provided by a tiny laser projector. Traveling to Switzerland to find the corresponding bank, the man discovers he is skilled in advanced hand-to-hand combat when he instinctively defends himself from two policemen. He arrives at the bank and finds the deposit box contains a significant amount of cash and several passports with his photo, but with numerous aliases. He assumes the name Jason Bourne. A few blocks away, he induces Marie with $20,000 to take him to Paris to the address on his "Bourne" passport. Meanwhile, back at CIA headquarters the head of Treadstone, reveals to his supervisor, that Bourne was the covert operative responsible for a failed assassination attempt. Intending to sever all connections between the CIA and Wombosi, Conklin sends three highly-trained assassins to kill Bourne. The only thing these movies fall victim too is the shaky cam effect, I understand it's meant to make the audience feel tense but it's not needed for 90% of the movie. Also I wished they had picked a different actress to play Marie. Nothing wrong with Franka Potente, she's a fine actress but she just didn't really capture me as Marie and made her character into such a cliché. Plus their love story isn't really that necessary and very random. However like I said this is a very interesting story and I'm glad that I decided to check these movies out. I really loved the car chase scene, it's rare we get a good one any more and it was handled so gracefully that made it so exciting. I'm so curious if Matt Damon did his own stunts which is probably unlikely however those fight scenes were just awesome and again done with such style that it made the film worth watching. The supporting cast holds up very well with Chris Cooper and Julia Styles, I'm sad that Chris Cooper didn't make it for the other movies because his character is so dark and a great villain, but the show must go on and other great villains will be introduced as we find out more about Jason Bourne.7/10
Gigli, named the worst movie of 2003, understandable in some ways, but I have to say from what I was expecting, this is not the worst film I have ever seen. BUT, but, but, but, that is a huge BUT, I can see why people don't like this film, and why I found it to be a bad idea as well as a bad film, the cast was beyond a mistake. First off, this movie was made during the time of the media craze of Bennifer, so it made it kind of annoying to see these two together again, but it's mostly Ben and Jennifer's acting "abilities" that kill the film. I'm supposed to believe that Jennifer is a "tough" gangster who does nothing to prove she is dangerous and that she is a lesbian? Not likely. Ben is also supposed to be a tough like New York accent dumb gangster? His accent was in and out during the whole movie. Also, did Christopher Walken and Al Pacino like owe Ben and Jennifer a favor? Because they so did not belong in this movie.Basically we have a screw up gangsta hit man who for some reason keeps getting hired instead of killed, Gigli(his name rhymes with really), he has to kidnap a retarded brother of a politician. But Gigli's boss thinks he needs to be watched by a hot lesbian gangsta, Ricki, who just refuses to sleep with Gigli, understandably, but he's a brat about it. Then his mom hits on her, very scary, and she ends up liking him anyways. But they end up liking the retarded kid and want to help him because they are now the tough hit men with a heart of gold? Now somehow this was turned into a ridiculous romantic comedy.Now Gigli like I said is not the worst movie I've seen, but it is a bad one. The only reason why I saw it was because I was so curious if it really was the worst movie of all time, is it? No, I wouldn't say so, but it is up there. The script was not at all well done, and very hard to believe. But for the most part it was Ben and Jennifer, I'm not saying that to hate on them, it's just a true fact. They were just the worst cast for a mafia type of movie, what was the casting agent thinking? I'm glad the Bennifer thing is over, but it's sad that Ben and Jennifer will always have to look at this moment in their lives and be teased about it, because if I have a bad weekend, I'm going to say it was "Gigli" bad from now on.1/10
When we think about what famous horror films like A Nightmare on Elm Street, Halloween and Friday the 13th, what do they have in common? They all have a million sequels. The series that seems to be the underdog that most people forget about but know it's main villain is Hellraiser which has a decent amount of sequels. However the sad part is, after the first three movies, every sequel that came out was a direct to video so I don't think the series had much of a chance to stand up to the big boys on the block of the horror genre. Hellraiser was the series that was not only darker but more serious when it came to horror and wasn't afraid to show off the gory side of torture. Think about it, I don't think we could have films like Saw and Hostel which owe a little thanks to Hellraiser for giving us the blood and guts. Also it gave us an extremely dark villain, Pinhead who feels no mercy and enjoys the pleasure of putting pain into your body and pulling your flesh every way possible with chains and hooks. But where did the puzzle box come from? Well Bloodline takes us into the story of the origin of the cenobites.In the year 2127, Paul Merchant, has a robot solve the puzzle box that holds Pinhead. However, several guards led by Rimmer capture Paul. Paul tells Rimmer the story of his bloodline. Philip L'Merchant, a French toymaker, makes the puzzle box for a wealthy aristocrat, who is obsessed with dark magic. He and his apprentice kill a woman and use her to summon the Cenobite slave Angelique. However, Angelique betrays and kills the aristocrat. L'Merchant, in the process of inventing a design to destroy the demons, attempts to steal back the box but is discovered. Jacques, Angelique's master, callously informs the toymaker that he and his bloodline are cursed until the end of time because of the box he created, before ordering Angelique to kill him. However, his wife survives and gives birth to his son, thus continuing the bloodline and to the future where Paul is trying to destroy Pinhead and Angelique once and for all.So I really did enjoy the story of Bloodline, it was a great idea that deserved more time and money. The film does well with what it was given, but since you can tell they were not given such great finances, the film falls short in the acting and shortness of the film. It feels like a made for TV film at times that was just more bloody than others. I couldn't really get into Valentina Vargas as Angelique nor did I find her incredibly evil like Pinhead, she didn't send any chills down my spine. But the last fight with Pinhead was cool and there are some great one liners. Pinhead screaming how he couldn't die is classic considering how many more sequels there are, but this was meant to take place in the future so who knows? Maybe Pinhead really does die in the future. I was a bit disappointed that we didn't have any more Elliot Spencer who is also a very interesting character. But this story was more about how the box was created and the family and their curse to fight the cenobites forever. Over all, it's worth the look, I think this was the last good sequel before it started getting weird and that's odd to say considering this is the Hellraiser series.5/10
"The rush of battle is a potent and often lethal addiction, for war is a drug." A few months ago I had heard a little bit about The Hurt Locker, a lot of critics were bragging about how great this movie was, so I was kind of curious to see what it was about, but I couldn't find any local theaters that were playing the movie, so I had to wait it out for the rental. Without really knowing what the story was about, all I knew was it was an Iraq film. With a lot of war movies, I'm always concerned that it's more government propaganda to get us to say "Oh, my God, what those soldiers go through; I wanna help". But Kim Bigelow, everything that has been said about her has been taken out of my mouth. I didn't know that there was a female that was capable of creating such suspense and realism, she's absolutely incredible. I thought if not for the big names, that she cleverly puts in supporting roles, this movie was the actual war and Kim was just shooting what was going on in Iraq during these frightful times to be a soldier as well as a human being.During the early stages of the post-invasion period in Iraq in 2004, Sergeant First Class William James becomes the team leader of an EOD unit with the U.S. Army's Bravo Company, replacing Staff Sergeant Thompson, who was killed by a remote-detonated IED in Baghdad. He joins Sergeant J.T. Sanborn and Specialist Owen Eldridge, whose jobs are to communicate with their team leader via radio inside his bombsuit, and provide him with rifle cover while he examines IEDs. During their first mission together, James's insistence on approaching a suspected IED without first sending in a bomb disposal robot leads Sanborn and Eldridge to consider him reckless. Being in a country where everyone is a possible enemy and the young men are almost expecting to die on a daily basis, it's hard not to say that war is Hell, but that the passion they have for what they do in this war is not only admirable but crazy.The Hurt Locker is a great film in the way it was made and told. To see these men on their journey throughout Iraq was so depressing and intense, but very believable. Wither you like the character or not, they were very real and Anthony Mackie stole the show in my opinion. You could really sense his dedication but also his worry on a constant basis if the day he wakes up is his last with this country. His chemistry with Jeremy Renner was dead on, the last scene between them made me cry and just broke my heart to see these two young men risking everything they have to wonder if it's crazy or that maybe this was fate and to be apart of something exciting as not many people to get to fight in a war. The Hurt Locker is one of the best films of the year, realism aside, it provides a new look into the terrifying life of these brave young men. I loved that Kim used the big names into supporting roles, because if she had used them for the bigger roles, it would have taken away from the film. She was a great choice for the film to direct and the actors were just terrific. The setting, the dialog, the story, everything about this film is done to perfection and will be remembered for years to come.10/10
When I saw the trailer for Elizabeth: The Golden Age, I was a little baffled, I know this is going to sound so bad, but I was thinking "Oh, great, the sequel to Elizabeth, Elizabeth: The Search for More Money". I mean, they ended the movie Elizabeth so well, why did they need another movie? But after Cate's Oscar nomination, I decided to go ahead and see the movie and just see if it was any good, I watched it yesterday and I have to say that Elizabeth: The Golden Age was really good. I'm a little surprised by the rating of a 6.9, I thought they presented Queen Elizabeth with the great honor and strength that she deserved. Cate Blanchett was astonishing, her performance was just incredible, it's almost like this was the role that was just meant to be her's. She brought Queen Elizabeth to life like no other actress has before.Queen Elizabeth has taken rule to England, she is still childless and unmarried, the war between the Prodestents and the Catholic's is still going strong, since Elizabeth is a known Prodestent, many people do not want her on the throne. Mary Stewart is Elizabeth's cousin and many people believe that she should have taken the crown and will assassinate Elizabeth just to get their way. For once Queen Elizabeth's emotions are starting to show, she's frightened and worried what is going to happen to her and her kingdom, but with the reassurance of the adventurer, Sir Walter Raleigh and old friend, Sir Francis Walsingham, she feels the strength to go on and go into war with the Spanish.Elizabeth: The Golden Age is a remarkable film and I was really impressed with how they presented Elizabeth, she was so strong and admirable. The film itself is great as well, while it's not strongly accurate, the story is terrific, I know they had to give it a little something to grab the audience's's attention. But the sets, the costumes, the characters, Clive Owen made a great performance out of Sir Raleigh, he was the perfect choice. I would recommend Elizabeth: The Golden Age, it's a terrific movie and I hope Cate gets the Oscar she very much deserves for the performance of Elizabeth.9/10
Oh, my friend was just dying to see Nights in Rodanthe, I'm convinced she is absolutely in love with Richard Gere, not to mention she just loves romantic movies, so Richard Gere and romance? It's a no brainer, she just had to see this movie, guess who she begged to go with her? Yeah, me, I didn't really want to see it though, it looked too sappy for my tastes, but we got to see it for free, so I figured to just go ahead and give it a fair chance. Well, we saw it today, it was a little better than I expected, which is saying plenty. After seeing the movie Unfaithful, I really wasn't into the whole Diane and Richard being back together on screen, but for some reason they made this story more enjoyable. Even though it was predictable, it was a sweet movie, I hate the sappy movies, despite it's sappiness that I normally resent, it's still a nice movie and was just a breath of fresh air due to the recent movies that we're getting that are either thrillers, comedies, or action.Adrienne Willis is a divorced mother of two who's ex-husband is begging to come back home after a nasty affair he had with one of her friends. She's debating on it since her children want them back together and she feels it should be that way. But when her friend leaves her to run her house on the beach that she rents out to people, Adrienne meets Paul Flanner, a doctor who has had a rough year after loosing a patient on a routine surgery, he's staying in the house with Adrienne. Loosing themselves has been so hard, but when they're together they find themselves once again and bring life back into their world realizing it's OK to be in love once more.Nights in Rodanthe is a nice movie to watch... more so I'd say for either a rental or a matinée, I was more impressed with it than I thought I would be, but it does get predictable, which I hate to say I've just been seeing nothing but predictable films lately. Maybe I should start writing scripts if this is all it takes, I could write a number one movie maybe, wish me luck. But back onto the movie, it has decent acting and does give you watery eyes. It's a nice movie to watch, gives you a little smile and reminds you of the sweeter things in life. Richard and Diane made this movie enjoyable and were lovely on-screen together, it's worth the watch.6/10
I confess I saw the remake of The Hitcher before I saw the original, despite me hearing a few good reviews about it, I never really got around to seeing it. But when I saw the remake, I swore I would see the original. The remake sucked, I told my friend about it, she told me to just stick to the original, so I rented it a few days ago and watched it, I have to say that it was definitely better, it had a lot of chills and scares here and there. In my opinion, there are a few flaws here and there, like the kids are still not that likable, and some things didn't work that well, but I'd have to give spoilers to tell.Jim has been traveling for quite some time from Chicago to California, when he is trying to keep awake, he sees a hitcher that he offers a ride too. The hitcher's name is "John Ryder" and quickly threatens Jim's life, but Jim manages to get him out of the car. Right as things look good for him, we realize it's only 15 minutes into the film, and John is not going down without a fight and frames Jim for murders that he committed himself. Jim meets a young pretty waitress Nash and she tries to help him get out of this mess, but John is not going to give up that easily.The Hitcher has some very intense moments that were great, John Ryder is one of the best villains in horror movie history. The guy just won't give up on making Jim's life a living hell in the series of murders that he is leaving behind for Jim to take the blame. My problem is that he said Jim was a smart man and would figure out why he was doing this to him, but I never found out why. Oh, well, I guess maybe it was just me.7/10
Some horror franchises pick up very well with fans. Almost in the spirit of Deliverance and The Hills have Eyes, we got Wrong Turn. The first film was alright, it had some good moments here and there and if we had a different male lead actor, it could've been something a little more special even if it was cliché at times and predictable. We had a sequel which actually was pretty good, it was silly but a ton of fun to watch. So naturally a third Wrong Turn had to be made. But as usual, most of the sequels are going to, no pun intended, take a wrong turn and put the franchise in danger of being forgotten. Is Three-Finger that memorable of a villain? Are the characters at all likable enough to want us to see them survive or get a good kill? Well, we didn't get much with this movie; in fact, it was just down right insulting.Alex and her friends go into the woods on a rafting trip. As they are camping, her friends are killed by Three-Finger as Alex watches. Two days later, prison guard Nate was assigned to transfer a group of prisoners to a distant prison. While driving, their bus is attacked by Three-Finger and crashes to the woods, forcing them to continue on foot. Nate is overpowered by the prisoners, with them taking charge and in control of the guns. While being chased through the woods, the prisoners use Nate as a guide to lead them to a watch tower that Nate recalls being in the area, to send out an SOS using the communications equipment they believe is in there. The group finds Alex and walks to an abandoned armored truck filled with cash. The money quickly becomes the prisoners' sole motivation for escape and survival. But Three-Finger is back to get some fast food.Honestly, I really don't find Three-Finger to be that great a villain for the horror genre. There's nothing memorable about him and he's a bit of a copy off from other great horror villains. I keep wanting to call him Three-Toe because I don't even care about him at all, I don't find him menacing as more of a weirdo who read far too many Ed Gein books. The characters are very irritating. First off, the group of friends we are introduced too, we know they're just bait as one takes her top off, one says he's going into the woods alone and one is touchy feely with the topless girl and is so quick to leave her alone when she's attacked by Three-Finger. Yeah, did they even have names? "Bait #1"? Then the prisoners are so clichéd. There's one who's the tough guy who needs to take control. There's the wanna be tough guy who wants to be in control but will fall in line unless pushed too far. There's the goof ball who's more irritating than funny and you don't want him to die, you just want to leave the room.There's this pointless love story between the cop and Alex, he doesn't know her and is so quick to risk his life for her. It was so contrived and unbelievable. The story isn't scary, they're trying so hard to make you squirm, it doesn't work. The one cool trap I liked and got ruined by over the top CGI effects was the "three string" mouse trap that split the guy in three parts. Then you see the CGI blood fly and it's just ruined, I miss the old blood, even if it did look fake at least it didn't look cartoonish. Yeah, this is the sequel to skip, it could've been much better. The Wrong Turn series so far isn't very memorable and they shouldn't even bother trying to franchise these movies.2/10
Thanks to what was the craziness of how hot hot hot Jessica Alba was this past year, a lot of people, including me, really didn't wanna see a movie with her. Yes, she's beautiful, but can she act? The eternal question where I finally saw something, Awake, she actually did a decent job. I rented Awake the other day and watched it, this was actually a lot better than I thought it was going to be. I have to say, this was a first, I really did not see that conclusion coming. It was awesome to see a movie that had a clever script, was it realistic? I wouldn't necessarily agree, the movie and story does have it's flaws here and there, but if you let them slide, it's a fun little thriller that will have you on the edge of your seat.Clay has everything: money, a loving mom, a company of his own, a world in his hands, and a beautiful woman, Sam. But unfortunately, his heart isn't so lucky, so much so that he needs a transplant, and his trusted friend Jack Harper is going to do the transfer for him. But his mom is begging him to re-consider and have another surgeon do the operation, but Clay says she just has to trust his instincts, which may be the biggest mistake he can make.Awake is a pretty cool movie, the actors, some things are over done, but it's a thriller, it's supposed to keep you scared and tense, so I am willing to over look the non-existence of reality, I think this movie meant to be that way. I also just hate to say it, Jessica Alba is decent in the movie and covers herself well in her role as Sam. But the top performance of the film was without a doubt from Howard, he was so convincing and almost made you feel bad for him, well, I don't want to give too much away, you'll just have to see what I mean. But I do recommend Awake, it's a good movie, I'm impressed.7/10
Terms of Endearment is a well received movie that won critic's and audience's hearts in the 80's, not to mention how it snabed several Oscars including Best Picture of 1983, but I'm not so sure if it still has the same effect for today. While there were some moments that were funny and touching, the movie seemed to me like it was not well edited, everything went extremely fast and I couldn't keep up with what time the movie was going, it went from a year to next shot 10 years later without us even knowing. But I have to tell you that the only thing that really won my heart over was Jack Nicolson's character, Garrett, he was so charming and funny, I just absolutely fell in love with him.Emma and her mother Aurora are completely different, Aurora seems to really dislike Emma's husband, Flap, and Emma wants her mother to fall in love again. When Aurora notices the next door neighbor, Garrett, she starts to date him and eventually feels the scary emotion of love. Emma is going through a tough marriage though when she realizes how much of her life she's given up, but she is diagnosed with cancer and then soon comes to realize how everything she has was wonderful and she would never do it over again.Some of the emotions in this movie were just not well explained and the time that was expanded throughout the film was not edited well. Those were my main complaints, I'm sure you'll know what I mean when you see this movie. But still Shirly and Jack did a terrific job, they worked so well together and were just lovely. Unfortunately, this movie has just lost it's effect throughout time, it was the 80's, what can you say? 6/10
Last week my date and I were looking for a movie to see and noticed Observe and Report, I remember just seeing one trailer for it, but still it was staring Seth Rogan, so we decided this was going to be the movie for the night. Now I did expect laughter, which believe me there is tons, but I did not expect a crazy movie like this one. Like I said, this is a mix of Taxi Driver and Paul Blart: Mall Cop, this year we got Paul Blart who is a very lovable security guard at the mall, despite how silly he was he was like the Forrest Gump of mall security. Imagine he had that evil brother that had that Travis Bickle side of him, pretty wicked. This is one of the craziest movies I have seen in a while, Seth Rogan wasn't kidding when he said that he never played a character like Ronnie Barnhardt. If you are looking for a movie like Forgetting Sarah Marshall or Knocked Up, this is definitely not for you, this is the darker side of the Apatow group.The head of mall security, Ronnie Barnhardt, makes it his mission to catch a "pervert" who is going around the mall parking lot flashing women. He is assisted by the Yuen twins, Charles and Dennis in his efforts. At home, Ronnie has a loving but dysfunctional relationship with his alcoholic mother. Ronnie's dream girl, Brandi who works a mall make-up counter, is flashed the next day, becoming distraught over the situation. Ronnie tries to comfort her until a police officer, Detective Harrison, arrives and takes over Ronnie's palliative role. Ronnie feels threatened by this and is upset that his boss allowed an outside person to infringe on his search for the offender. The criminal activity at the mall continues, as a masked person is seen robbing a shoe store, causing property damage. Detective Harrison is once again called in to investigate, in a jealous rage, Ronnie decides to take the steps necessary to become a real police officer. Ronnie obtains preliminary documents needed to become a police officer from a recruiting station, including forms for a physical and a psychological profile check. Ronnie arranges a date with Brandi, well more or less bugs the heck out of her to get a date. Date night, Brandi arrives home very late, forgetting the date, but she still goes on the date with Ronnie. She drinks a ton alcohol as well as several tablets of clonazepam which she took from Ronnie. Due to his failure of the psychological examination, because of his crazy behavior. The pills that he gave Brandi are for his bipolar disorder. You thought he was crazy before, just wait till you see what he does next.So would I recommend Observe and Report? Yeah, it does have some big laughs, mainly from Rogan, Faris, Pena, and Ansari(who played a salesperson and Ronnie tormented with accusations). We even have Ray Liotta come in as the smug detective and he was perfect as usual as the crazy villain. This is a darker comedy, it's a certain taste, I mean we have Rogan practically date rape Faris in their sex scene together, granted she's conscious when it's going on, but she's clearly drunk and passed out from the drugs she took. Rogan also has some awesome fight scenes and just kicks butt in this movie. Over all I think this was a really movie, it's crazy and a bit much, but I like that Rogan took a different turn than the usual comedy that he releases every year. So just know what you're getting into if you're going to see this movie, it's creepy, but if you have an open mind to a dark comedy, then I think you'll have fun with it. Not to mention if you do or have worked at a mall, you will have a great appreciation for this movie.7/10
So I've been on a "so bad it's good" movie kick lately and I don't know how but I missed the Troll movies. I honestly don't know how in the heck I ever missed them as a movie buff, but better late than never right? So I just bought the double feature set of Troll/Troll 2 and just couldn't wait to pop it in my DVD player. The first 22 minutes of this film I paused it and called my boyfriend saying "I Uh There's a Harry Potter, a talking mushroom, a singing troll, a neighbor who is Family Guy's Quagmire's long lost brother, Julia Lewis Dreyfuss, Atreyo from Neverending Story" he said "Oh, my God, have you seen a movie that actually left you speechless?" and I just paused as he started laughing triumphantly. I was wondering how a movie could be this weird when I'm not even at the half hour mark? I don't even know how to rate a movie like this because I'm not sure if this was meant to be taken seriously because at one point I just turned into a laughing maniac. You know that infamous scene from Evil Dead 2 where Ash just goes crazy and starts laughing with the objects that are laughing at him? That's what I felt like while I was watching Troll.The Potter family are moving into a new apartment in San Francisco. While unpacking, their young daughter Wendy is attacked by a grotesque little creature, who had long ago been transformed from a powerful wizard into a troll. Using a magic crystal green ring, it captures Wendy and possesses her form. After meeting the other tenants, the family notices Wendy's unusual behavior, but they attribute her behavior to the stress of the move. The only one that notices something is terribly wrong is Wendy's brother, Harry Potter Jr. Frightened by his sister's sudden and violent changes, he seeks solace in the company of a mysterious old lady Eunice, who lives upstairs. When he tells her of the strange goings-on, she reveals to him her real profession: a witch. Harry asks Eunice to teach him magic, but she says that there is not time. She does instruct him as to the ways of a hidden magical world, and tells him of her long history stretching back to a time of when she and a powerful wizard named Torok were in love. At that time the world was divided between fairies, which includes trolls, and humans. The realms were equal and independent of each other. However, Torok and some of the fairies challenged this balance resulting in a great war in which the humans prevailed. Torok was transformed into a troll as punishment. Eunice stands guard, as she has for centuries, now in her apartment, waiting patiently for Torok to challenge the realms again, which is happening now.This movie is amazing in the sense that it was made, released and I was thinking "if this is the first movie and the second is more famous for how bad it is, I'm scared to continue onto the second film". The acting is horrible and the story is beyond bizarre, yet somehow this movie has this unique charm to it that makes it into the "so bad it's good" category. Also I don't want to continue this joke since it's probably been done to death, but I just loved how the character's name is Harry Potter and he says that he wants to learn magic from a witch. I would say the writers should sue, it's pretty safe to say that JK Rowling is a closet fan who won't admit that she just loves her trolls. I would say this movie is for a specific audience where if you're looking for a fun bad movie, this is definitely one to check out, however for the norms, you might wanna shy away from it, it's definitely a weird movie.3/10
Law Abiding Citizen, the movie that I wasn't sure what to expect from. I knew from the trailer that I wanted to see it, it has two great actors, Gerard Butler and Jamie Foxx. A really great concept to show how messed up our judicial system is in America. But ends up being more of an action film above all. If you get past the all the parts that are not believable, this was a great movie. I just let go and started having fun with it, but what kept it from being a terrific movie was the ending, I'll get to that in a bit. I love these films, the movies that point out screwed up a system can be, a poor man looses his family to a violent crime and there's a deal made so the one who actually did the crime is the lesser punished? We see that on the news every day and just shake our heads on how messed up it is to see scum on the streets on technicality. Law Abiding Citizen has you rooting for a man who did what any man or woman would do if they felt their case was over looked, but then when he goes above and beyond it, that's when the movie goes in being unbelievable.After a home invasion that left his wife and daughter dead, Clyde Shelton, a top-notch retired spy is told that one of the criminals who killed his wife and daughter would get off, due to his cooperation with the district attorney's office to put his accomplice on death row. Ten years later Shelton begins exacting revenge not just against the criminals, but the entire justice system. He is quickly captured, but Nick Rice, a young D.A. at the time who chose to make the deal in order to keep his conviction rate up so he could climb in the ranks in the department, realizes that prison isn't enough to keep Shelton from killing everyone involved in letting Clyde's family down, criminal or judicial.I'm really struggling with this movie, because I don't want you to get me wrong, I did enjoy the movie very much. I just think that the concept was a bit far fetched, we went from rooting to Clyde to saying "woah, hey, you've gone to far" which makes you question your own morality. But I'm warning you, there are major spoilers after this. The ending was what ticked me off, Clyde is this genius who has figured everything out, he knows what he's doing and can always be 2 steps ahead of the people who are investigating him. When Nick discovers how Clyde has always been 2 steps ahead, it's like that's it, we're done. That's it for Clyde, he dies and that's it? I'm just supposed to accept that Clyde doesn't have a back up plan or maybe surprises us by having a complete different use for the bomb he planted than what Nick thought of in the first place? But I have to let it go, because most of the movie is actually good, you let go and it's a great movie, it's just the ending that lost it for me. But it is worth the watch, but I think I would tell you to rent it vs. seeing it in the theater.7/10
I was going through my mom's movies and found Amistad, I noticed how it had some really great actors: Anthony Hopkins, Morgan Freeman, and Djimon Hounsou, so I decided to check it out. I finished it today and I was absolutely moved by this film, I agree that it's not as memorizing as Schindler's List, but I do feel like this is a terrific film and is just incredibly heart breaking. Spielberg did a great job in telling the horrific stories of illegal slave trading, just what it must be like to not be treated as a human, but nothing more than property and like an animal. Djimon Hounsou, I can't believe this guy was not nominated for an Oscar, he was just incredible in this film and delivered his lines so beautifully. This was a very sad but important story to tell and I felt that no one else could have told it better than Steven Spielberg.On an illegal slave trade, all the African slaves escape and slaughter the sails men brutally, the slaves are captured though and brought back to America to be put on trial for murder. Baldwin, their lawyer is fighting their innocence while their leader, Cinque, tells their horrific story of their trade and how the men that kidnapped them brutally beat and killed some of them. In a country where almost half the population are slave owners and white, this seems like the trial of the century and hopefully with the help of an ex president, John Quincy Adams by their side, they will be free to go home again.I highly recommend Amistad if you get the chance to see it, I honestly don't see how others cannot appreciate this story. The actors did a great job, even somehow out of surprise, Matthew McConaughey delivers a decent performance, so why has he taken such a down turn? But Anthony and Djimon truly take the show, especially in their first scene together where Cinque is explaining how he will have his ancestors with him by his side at the trial. The speech that Hopkins delivers at the end is very inspirational and reminds you to forget the hatred, the differences, that deep down inside, we are all human and have feelings. Amistad is a great film and I think it does deserve a better rating and a more fair chance than it's been given.9/10
Let me start by saying that I would claim these movies to be in the best of cinema category if they just changed the genre from "drama, romance, horror" to "comedy". That's seriously all they need to do because the awful dialog is back, the horrendous story and the terrible characters are back. You know the funny thing is, the story actually has some extreme potential to be a great horror story with some in depth drama and dimensional characters with a powerful conflict. A vampire has sex with a human impregnating her with a child that will most likely kill her but she doesn't want to give the baby up so easily. But this is Twilight, where Bella Swan likes to play boys back and forth like a pin pon ball and the boys are chumps.The newlyweds Bella Swan and Edward Cullen are finally together forever as they are wisked away to a private island where they make love for the first time, but everything is cut short when a series of betrayals and misfortunes threatens to destroy their world. Bella soon discovers she is pregnant, and during a nearly fatal childbirth, Edward finally fulfills her wish to become immortal. But the arrival of their remarkable daughter, Renesmee, sets in motion a perilous chain of events that pits the Cullens and their allies against the Volturi, the fearsome council of vampire leaders, setting the stage for an all-out battle. In the end of the movie, Bella, with her baby cut out of her and injected with vampire venom, finally wakes up from a coma. But will she turn into a vampire in time to raise a cute little CGI vampire baby? You'll have to wait another year to find out.I swear on my life, Bella Swan would have made a great Shakespeare villain somewhere. This is the most selfish, manipulative, self righteous little (you know the B word that I cannot say on IMDb) ever in the history of books or cinema. She finally gets her wish, she's married Edward with the same "enthused" look that she always has with that dumb open mouth grin with bunny teeth and yet she's STILL flirting around with Jacob, sometimes in front of her husband! She's made every bad decision known to man, yet she still continues the same path where she wants to remain human for a few more nights because she doesn't want to hurt on her honeymoon, umm, you've been begging to be a vampire and picking at Edward every chance you get and when told that he could kill you she's like "yeah, it's cool". He hurts her with bruises and she's like the abused wife "no, it's OK, I know he loves me". Then she gets pregnant and everyone is begging her to get rid of the baby as it will kill her, she says with the same dumb grin and expression of monotone voice "it's a miracle". Oh, my God, how this is supposed to be the woman that these two guys are fighting over? She's so boring, so awful, not pretty, doesn't have any special talent, what is wrong with this world that they think she is worth fighting for?! All these immortals are risking their lives for this girl who is the blandest character you've ever seen.Jacob comes into Edward's home, disrespects him and cuddles up to Bella and Edward is cool with it, almost encourages it. Taylor Lautner, I give him a little credit because during this one sick scene where Bella says she'd name the baby if it was a boy "Edward Jacob" and he has a look of disgust that I had too. Finally, someone almost stood up to Bella! I'm not crazy! They use full songs during the movie that are so random and out of place that it felt so awkward. The story is 30 minutes long into a 2 hour movie that isn't interesting and is an unintentional comedy. Billy Burke is the only actor who seems to give any kind of emotion to his role and I think he's just playing it like he's expressing in real life that he's just sick of this franchise. I give the movie credit for making me laugh hysterically, I needed a good laugh and Breaking Dawn definitely gave that to me. No matter which director they get, this series is doomed and tame. They are milking it for every penny by splitting a book that was written by a 5 year old into a 2 part movie that is drawn out with no suspense or interesting moments. I don't know why women(I'm a woman by the way) love this franchise, it's insulting and absolutely horrible. I have to cut the comment off but just trust me, I could go on about how bad this movie is but we'll sum it up by saying: skip it.1/10
I was really looking forward to seeing Superman Returns, especially since I just finished all the Superman movies and I love Kevin Spacey. This movie also looked very exciting and a great new introduction for a new generation. Though it had a good story, I have to admit that I liked the original better, this seemed like a darker side of Superman and not as fresh or bright. Sort of like Batman Begins, it seems like they want to take these super heroes and just make them so mysterious and not as bright or friendly, I know the comics are darker, but I just grew up with the cartoons and movies.Superman has returned, we're not sure why he left though, but Lex Luther is also back and he is planning on making his own island and destroying the United States. Clark is just getting back into things, learning that Louis has moved on with a son and a fiancée, she has also written an article on why the world doesn't need Superman, but that article is clearly proved wrong several times as Lex slowly tries to destroy the U.S., Superman is there to save the innocent and know that there is more to Louis's son than meets the eye.While it had cool effects, the CGI seemed a little too fake and the original looked more real, you know what I mean? Also, not to complain too much, just I wasn't sure where Superman Returns took off from? Was it another sequel or was it a remake or was it like the original never existed? Maybe I missed something, but I'm sticking with the light hearted and fun original masterpiece, same with Batman, I love those type of films, not these new darker versions.6/10
My friends and I decided to see Nim's Island tonite, I work at a theater and have walked in on a couple parts and it looked cute, so I figured it might be a fun watch. Honestly, Nim's Island is a good family film, decent enough for a watch, but I'm a little disappointed with what I was expecting. Just I think the ideas are a little beyond out there and I don't think this is the type of film that is going to keep a lot of kid's attention. It's just not memorable, it has it's cute moments here and there, now Abigail Breslin pulls in a decent enough performance to make the film watchable, but again, like her last film Definitely Maybe, it seems like she's getting the star's bug, which worries me because she has so much potential and her performances she doesn't seem to care too much since her Oscar nomination. But it's Jodie Foster's performance that majorly disappointed me, it was too forced and made the story more ridicules that what it already was.Nim is a little girl who lives on an island with her dad who is an adventurer. Now they have not told anyone where they are and their living place, good idea if they need help, right? Well, her dad goes on a research assignment, and gets hit by a nasty storm stranding him in the middle of no where. When Nim gets an E-Mail from famous author, Alex Rover, who she thinks is a real life hero, Alex wants answers about volcano's for her next book, but Nim wants help since she's alone on the island and her dad hasn't returned. Alex has one problem, she's agoraphobic, but gets the strength to go on an adventure and help Nim out with the help of her famous character Alex Rover to get through this Indiana Jones ordeal.Nim's Island is a cute movie, I would never ever say in a million years that this is a bad movie, because it is worth a look. Just I would recommend that you wait for the rental, this is not the Horton Hears a Who of the year, it's a movie that is forgettable unfortunately, it just needed more help with the script and the actors needed to bring it a little more down to Earth since the story is supposed to be fairy tale like, you'll see what I mean if you see this movie. But like I said, wait for the rental, it's a nice family film, but isn't the best movie of Spring 2008.5/10
It's really scary, because I was watching Feast and wasn't really enjoying it, but then I thought when I was going to comment on it that it'd probably have a 6.5 rating for those "cult lovers". Somewhere down the road I thought maybe I could see this movie getting more appreciated, but right now I wasn't too into it. I saw this movie getting advertised on the Sci-fi channel and a critic was just raving about it and how scary it was. So, even though I never heard of it, I decided to rent it.It's about these strangers in a bar who are just frankly, are a bunch of jerks, and when two people come into the bar bloodied up and say that there are aliens attacking them, the creatures decide to attack the whole bar. They have to band together and figure out a way to defeat the aliens and get out of the bar alive, but it'll be hard since the aliens keep reproducing babies.Sometimes comedy and sometimes horror, two genres that need to be carefully put together, but it failed in my opinion. The only part that made me laugh hysterically was when the "actress" got in the truck and sped off, it was pretty funny. This movie kinda reminded me of "Dead Alive" which I also didn't enjoy, so I think that's why I didn't get into it. But to those others who did enjoy it, it's cool, I see this movie becoming a cult classic in the near future, but it didn't amuse me.4/10
One thing I talk to my friends about is star power in an actor, can an actor carry a film by him or herself? I explain that it's actually a rarity that we find an actor who can keep your interest for an entire film and also have massive appeal. Tom Hanks is one of those rarities, if it wasn't already proved enough with Philadelphia or Forrest Gump, it's proved with Cast Away that he can not only carry a film but keep you interested in the story and character as well. Cast Away is a film that takes chances because this could have been a total flop or a very boring movie. After all, being ship wrecked onto an island is not a new story. The reason it took me so long to see this film is because I thought it would be tedious and most people I know that saw it said it was just an alright film. Now I don't think this is the film of 2000, but it definitely ranks up with one of the strongest performances of the decade. Not having any dialog for most of the film, Tom Hanks keeps your interest as we see this tragic character trying to hang on to any inch of his live and survive hoping to come back home to his true love.Chuck Noland is a time-obsessed FedEx systems analyst, who travels worldwide resolving productivity problems at FedEx depots. He is in a relationship with Kelly. Although the couple wants to get married, Chuck's busy schedule interferes with their relationship. A Christmas with relatives is interrupted by Chuck being summoned to resolve a problem in Malaysia. Flying through a violent storm over the southern Pacific Ocean, Chuck's airplane crashes into the ocean, making him the only survivor among five. He clings onto the life-raft as it floats all night in the storm before being washed up on an island. Chuck initially tries to signal for rescue and makes an escape attempt with the remnants of his life-raft, but he cannot pass the powerful surf. He searches for food, water, shelter, and opens the FedEx packages washed up ashore, including a Wilson Sporting Goods volleyball. A short time later he draws a face on the ball, naming it "Wilson" and begins talking to it as if it was a person. Four years later Chuck is dramatically thinner and bearded with longer hair and wearing a loincloth. Finally deciding that it's now or never, he'll never be rescued so he'll do whatever he can to get off the island or die trying.This was a hard movie to get through because you know it wasn't going to be a typical story. If Tom Hanks gets home, what is everyone supposed to do or how do they even act around him when they thought he was dead? As he's gone through an amazing transformation himself through this journey. Of course everyone has made fun of Wilson the volleyball, honestly I was expecting it to be stupid because of all the parodies that have been done on it. It was possibly one of the most honest characters I had ever seen, after 4 years on an island by yourself, to keep yourself from going insane, you would talk to anything. Who doesn't have that moment where they just need to hear their voices? The film is very well made and Tom Hanks is a tour-de-force actor who takes risks and they usually pay off. He made his character very real, sad, funny, and sympathetic. How could anyone not like Cast Away? I would recommend this for the film lovers because obviously for those who do not like this film don't seem to have a passion for the actor's performance or seeing the message in movies. Cast Away was a wonderful movie and Tom Hanks should be proud, this is one of the finest performances in cinema history.8/10
Ah, this is what I've been waiting for with this trilogy, I think when people were bragging about this series, The Ultimatum was what they were talking about most of the time. This movie has it all, great action and a terrific story and what a way to conclude the movies for Jason Bourne. There are some really intense scenes as we see Jason trying to tell an agent with information how to escape an assassin that is tracking him down. The director really kept a good grip on his audience and didn't let up. Also I just love that we finally get to really know Julia Style's character who I have a feeling has a deeper connection with Jason Bourne than what was shown before. She becomes a very strong woman and a great counterpoint for Jason Bourne. I loved the return of Landy, as I mentioned before Joan Allen is just wonderful in this role and you continue rooting for her. David Strathium made for such a great villain, you had no idea what move he would pull next and how far he would go to cross the lines of when to say no wasn't enough, Jason Bourne showed him.Guardian correspondent Simon Ross meets with a source to discuss Bourne and Operation Treadstone. The CIA begin tracking Ross when he mentions "Operation Blackbriar" on a cell phone call to his editor. In London, Bourne meets with Ross at Waterloo Station after learning of Ross' investigation of Treadstone. When Bourne realizes that the CIA is tracking Ross, he helps him evade capture, but Ross deviates from Bourne's instructions and is killed by Blackbriar assassin Paz. CIA Director Ezra Kramer sends Landy to help Vosen after he spots Bourne in a CCTV camera feed. After searching Ross' notes, they deduce that his source was Neal Daniels, CIA Station Chief in Madrid, who was formerly involved in Treadstone and is actively involved in Blackbriar. Bourne, having taken Ross' bag after he was killed, is led to Daniels' Madrid office but finds it empty. Nicky Parsons, a former Treadstone support technician, arrives shortly after Bourne incapacitates the CIA field team sent by Vosen and Landy to capture him. She decides to help Bourne escape another incoming CIA squad and tells him Daniels fled to Tangiers.Well I finally completed the trilogy and I'm glad that I checked it out. I can understand why people are naming this the new James Bond spy genre. Hopefully they don't make another movie though as I heard Matt Damon doesn't want to continue as he feels his character had the perfect closure which I completely agree. It just won't work without Damon and his presence, but then again I have been wrong before. However this was a great movie and I had a lot of fun watching it. I loved the scene where Julia Styles is running from the assassin that is sent after her for trying to help Bourne, Bourne has to literally jump buildings, from rooftop to rooftop as he's being chased by the police to save Julia who is trying to blend in with the crowd and then having to pull some Jason Bourne stunts as well by jumping the roof. I loved the way the film ended with Jason finding out fully who he was and discovered that serving his country made him do things that he regrets and seeing the next in line to take his place breaks not only his heart but yours' as well. Great story, awesome action and a wonderful cast made this movie work and I highly recommend this trilogy as well.8/10
Clint, you have done it again! Letters from Iwo Jima is a different war film that separates itself from any other war films that is a guaranteed terrific rating. In high school, I wrote a paper on Iwo Jima, it's a war that is very over looked, especially by Americans, all we mostly know is that Iwo Jima is known for the famous image of the American soldiers planting the American flag in victory. Unfortunately, due to the monstrous image that we have created of the Axies powers in WWII, I feel that we have overlooked their history as well, Letters from Iwo Jima captured the "in the other person's shoes" perspective perfectly.Japanese soldiers are preparing for a strong battle to come onto the land of Iwo Jima, defending their land that is about to be invaded by the American troops. It's not a matter of taking sides, but what these soldiers were going through, knowing that they were sure to have a strong chance of death or extreme injury. For a country where pride is extremely precious and if you come off as a coward, you are a traitor to your land, we realize the terror not only from where the Americans were standing, but also the utter feeling of helplessness that the Japanese soldiers were feeling. Wanting to survive, some feel that they may have to just swallow their pride while watching their best friends and family die in front of their eyes.Clint captured perfectly how every side has a story; I am an American, I have extreme pride for where I come from, just like the Japanese did and still do. Both sides have extreme sympathy and hatred from the audience, showing human emotions that everyone could relate too. This film has terrific acting, beautifully disturbing scenery, excellent sound, and just a heart wrenching story that I guarantee if you enjoy history, you will be very proud of this film.10/10
Strange thing in the world of the horror genre, we have the big names of Jason, Freddy and Michael. But there are a few names while still well known for some reason didn't provide such a big splash when it came to the box office like Hellraiser with Pinhead who is one of the best monsters in cinema. The monster is nothing more than about torture and pain, he feels no mercy towards anyone and loves the pleasure of hurting your flesh. The first Hellraiser is without a doubt a twisted crazy classic, to get into Clive Barker's head must be a trip. He created some very disturbing images that will never get out of your head once you see Hellraiser. It was the first time where a horror film had started dark and stayed dark throughout the entire movie and there was no letting go to let you breathe. Then the sequel came along, still staying dark and having a new world to take us into with the same characters and our questions from the first film were answered. It was a good sequel that could hold up a candle to the original. Then, in the spirit of most horror films, we were given the third Hellraiser called Hell on Earth.The revelation of his own former humanity has resulted in Pinhead being split into two distinct entities: His former self, British Army Captain Eliot Spencer, and a manifestation of Spencer's id, which takes on the form of Pinhead. While Spencer ends up in limbo, Pinhead is trapped, along with the puzzle box, amongst the writhing figures and distorted faces etched into the surface of an intricately carved pillar - the Pillar of Souls. The pillar is bought by the rich and spoiled J.P. Monroe, owner of a popular nightclub called The Boiler Room. An ambitious young television reporter, Joey, slowly begins to learn about Pinhead and the mysterious puzzle box. She is introduced to the pain the box can bring when she views a teenage club-goer being ripped apart by the box's chains in a hospital emergency room. Joey is contacted by the spirit of Elliot Spencer, who tells her that this "Pinhead" is a separate entity. Without Spencer's humanity to act as a balancing influence, this Pinhead is completely evil and has no sense of order. Rather than abide by the laws of the Cenobite realm, he will indiscriminately wreak havoc on Earth for his own pleasure unless he can be stopped.So given new eye candy with Terry Farrell as the leading lady, competing with Ashley Laurence as Kirsty is no easy task. Terry does do pretty well in keeping up with Elliot Spencer, but her scenes with Pinhead are not up to par. A lot of fans did complain about the new cenobites, that they were too goofy looking, I agree in some sense but still liked the over all look of them. I thought they still were pretty intimidating, well except for the CD throwing cenobite, what was that about? I loved how in the end there were about 10 explosions every 2 minutes and they kept going and going and going. I also got a great kick out of how every person Joey bumped into died a second later in the end, if she ran into me on the other street, I'd be more afraid of her than Pinhead. The way people reacted in this film was unreal at times and the story was a bit silly and a let down from the two previous films. But I did find a certain entertainment from the film and I think some people are a little too harsh on it. Pinhead came to bring Hell on Earth and he certainly did for an hour and a half.6/10
When I saw the trailer to I Now Pronounce You Chuck and Larry this summer, I thought I was the only human on Earth who thought that it didn't look funny, but my best friend and her boyfriend saw it and she said that it was really funny. When it came onto rental, I figured I would just go ahead and see it. Just besides Reign Over Me, Sandler hasn't released any original or unique movies lately. So I watched I Now Pronounce You Chuck and Larry Tuesday night and while it was funny at times, it was typical Sandler: same cast from previous movies, him hitting people, funny beginning and middle, then sentimental message at the end, and predictable love story. I admit that it was funny at times, there are jokes that you find yourself laughing. The story was clever and made it look like the cast had a great time making the movie.Chuck and Larry are best friends and New York fire fighters; Chuck saves Larry from a bad fire that causes him to fall down from one of the floors and Chuck takes the floor that could have collapsed on him. Chuck survives but has a problem going on in his life, ever since his wife passed away, his pension plans for his kids are no good. But one thing could help him, if he re-marries, then his kids are set in case something happens to him. He asks Larry to make it look like a gay marriage, but to make sure that it isn't fake, the insurance company has people look over them, now they have to watch every step they take, especially with their hot looking lawyer. But they also learn the heartache of being accepted by the community.I Now Pronounce You Chuck and Larry is funny at times; but at some moments it seemed a bit hypocritical and predictable. Because the gay community accepts it so easily about Chuck and Larry being together after finding out the truth, which what I thought they did was very despicable. Acting wise, it's average, Jessica could use some work though, the scene where she undresses in front of Sandler and makes him touch her boobs, while it should be funny was actually more awkward. If you're looking for an average comedy, I Now Pronounce You Chuck and Larry is right up your alley, but don't expect anything special.5/10
I was looking forward to seeing Bad Boys II, because my friends and on IMDb, it looked like for the most part, most people enjoyed this movie. Not to mention that due to the first Bad Boys movie caused me to have a huge crush on Will Smith. But this movie for some reason didn't work that well for me, I mean, there were a few good moments that made me laugh, but this movie over all seemed kinda hateful for some reason. These two actors just didn't have the light spark like Lethal Weapon or Rush Hour.Marcus and Mike start off busting a horrible KKK meeting, when a shoot out happens, Mike accidentally hits Marcus in the rear with a bullet. Marcus is just about having it with Mike, and Mike is also having a secret relationship with Marcus's sister, Syd, to top that. They now have to uncover a drug and money ring that is being sent around the world through a morgue. But Marcus and Mike need to work things out since Marcus is planning on transferring the police department.Over all, Bad Boys II is a pretty decent action movie, but like I said, something rubbed me off wrong about the film. While it had great action sequences and some pretty funny moments, Will and Martin don't seem to have a certain spark that other buddy cop movies have. But, it's all good if others dig this movie.6/10
Once again, Hollywood is running out ideas and it's Fright's Night's turn for the remake. Fright Night is a huge cult classic that I'm sure was expected to flop, instead turned into a pleasant surprise. It's a fun film that came out of the 80's and is a classic treasure; it's like Rear Window with vampires. I didn't see the film until a few years ago, not sure how I missed it, I guess The Lost Boys was my vampire film of the 80's. But I loved the film and its clever mix of horror and humor. Plus it has a great cast, fun effects and a cool story. To remake it, again, everyone gets upset at first but from the trailer the film actually looked pretty good. I saw this opening day looking forward to seeing a reboot and while it's certainly flawed, this is actually a pretty decent remake. Charley Brewster is a teenager who discovers he has a new neighbor moving in next door to him. Charley's geeky ex-friend, Ed, tells him that many fellow students have gone missing. Charley disregards this, but talks him into coming to an old friend's house to check if he's alright.When Charley goes home after school, his mother introduces him to Jerry, who is the new neighbor. Charley meets up with Ed who informs him that his new neighbor is a vampire, Charley doesn't believe Ed and leaves. On his way home Ed is confronted by Jerry who convinces him to become a vampire and bites him. The next day Charley realizes that Ed is missing and decides to go to his house to investigate. As Jerry begins to attack more people throughout the neighborhood, Charley goes into Jerry's house and finds out that he is keeping all of his victims in secret rooms. Charley decides to go to Las Vegas magician Peter Vincent, a supposed expert on vampires and hope to destroy Jerry before he gets to his mother and beautiful girlfriend. Colin Ferrel, what can I say? Who could have been a more perfect choice? After his stint in rehab, I'm sure he more than enjoyed getting back into playing the bad boy. His Jerry may not have the exact same charm as Chris Sarandon, but you can tell he had a lot of fun and brought a lot to the character. However I wasn't as excited on the choice for Charlie, Anton Yelchin, who was actually kind of boring in my opinion. You can tell he tries but I don't think he had the best lines to work with. Now David Tennant who replaces Roddy McDowall was actually a decent replacement almost like a Cris Angel character, but honestly, even if I get hate for this comment, I think I would have loved to see Russell Brand in this role if they were going for that direction.There are a few disappointments with the film like not having the same chemistry that the original Charlie and Peter had, it seems like their relationship is more rushed in the remake and not like they really belong together. Also, since the film does take itself seriously as if we are supposed to buy that this is happening in our real world, how is it that there is absolutely no police investigation when people are missing? I mean, they say that people pass through Vegas and are never heard from again, but an entire family is missing and nothing is questioned? Also I was upset with the lack of Ed, I loved the plot change with him, but we didn't have enough Ed which Christopher Mintz-Plasse plays pretty well. The script may need work however; I still had fun watching the action and special effects. Though I don't think that the 3D was exactly needed for the film, they stuck to the original look to the vampires which I'm glad they did. But please, no more Twilight references, let's just try to forget those books or movies ever existed. Before I end the comment since I'm running out of room here, doesn't the poster remind you of No Country for Old Men? Maybe it's just me no, it's not me, they copied the poster. But I enjoyed the film, I'm pretty sure those who loved the original will get a good kick out of the remake. Its fun, stylish, sexy and exactly the good time horror movie we needed this year.7/10
I saw the trailer for The Onion Movie on a DVD recently and I couldn't help but stop laughing, so I knew that I wanted to see this movie. I rented the movie and watched it yesterday and I don't know, I'm just getting mixed feelings about this film. Just it reminded me so much of Kentucky Fried Movie, not to mention that the film at the end, I just felt like it didn't make much sense. But strangely enough, these skits were good enough to where they'd be great on Saturday Night Live or Mad TV, just putting them into a random 80 minute movie threw me off quite a bit. Some things were a little odd, some things were random, some things were unfunny, and some things were just friggin' hilarious. I did love Norm Archer though, he was just so funny and I felt so much for his character when he saw a dancing penguin on the desk, well, you'll see what I mean.Norm Archer is a news anchor for the Onion News, a very off beat news program that reports on: neck seat belts, Margo Cherry, the virgin sexy singer, stereotypical movie critics, neck belts for cars, geeks, missing good black socks, terrorists, a working armed gunman, and much more, including the new hit movie, well, I don't know if I could say the title, again, something you'll have to see for yourself. But Norm begins to question who he's working for and how strange it is.The Onion Movie has it's moments, I mean, don't get me wrong, as random as it is, it has some great gags. I loved Margo Cherry, the whole interview, we of course know they're making fun of Britney Spears, only I think it was more blunt. But this was over all a silly clever movie, just how it was put together, it's more of a Saturday Night Live skit vs. an actual movie. But I would recommend this if you need a few laughs, as a movie, it's below average, as for the skits, it makes it more worth your while.6/10
You know the last Final Destination film there was a word in front of it which named the title "THE Final Destination", I figured that was the last of the films. But I suppose they were just having fun seeing all the money the series was making and decided to give it another try. But how about giving us something different? And boy did they ever! I have to say that this is by far next to the first one my favorite of the Final Destination films. As silly and over the top as they are, you know you go into these films just looking forward to the death scenes. Death has a very clever way of killing people, he's like the Mouse Trap gamehe just likes to have fun I guess. Tony Todd is back to give the premonition warnings to the new group of teens which one looks like a cross breed between Tom Cruise and Brandon Roth and one who I knew that mole looked familiar from Election! Sorry, I just love it when I guess an actor right off the bat. But believe me when I say this is one of the best sequels by far with a great twist ending.Sam is on his way to a company retreat with his co-workers. While his bus is crossing North Bay Bridge, Sam suffers a premonition that the bridge will collapse, where everyone, including him, is killed. Panicked, he persuades his girlfriend Molly his friends Peter and Nathan, Peter's girlfriend Candice, his boss Dennis, Olivia and coworker Isaac to leave the bridge before it collapses. Following the memorial service, local coroner William Bludworth mysteriously warns the survivors that they have cheated Death. They ignore his warnings and move on with their lives. Of course in order they are killed off one by one learning how they have to put a sacrifice in their place in order to get out of death.I had a small feeling in my gut with the ending as I'm about to spoil it so please don't read on further. Sam mentions he has a flight to Paris and I was like "wait, in the first film wasn't the group on a trip to Paris? That'd be great if this was a prequel" and it turns out I was right! I wish I was watching this with my friends as I always somehow guess correctly when it comes to twist endings. I'm just sick, I've seen too many movies. However, I really loved this movie. Between the awesome death scenes, the gymnastic scene and the massage was just great. There's even a cringe worthy scene of eye laser surgery that I'm sure will get you covering your mouth and eyes, it was creepy. The effects are great as always and I'm such a crazy gore hound that I love the first vision as always. The bridge collapsing was just terrific and done so well. Every time you saw someone die you just would scream and have a good time with it. I really do like most of these Final Destination movies, they are a lot of fun and just a great idea in general. The only thing I would have changed in this film was to have Miles Fisher jump up on a couch and start laughing maniacally, because somewhere Tom Cruise must be wondering "Do I have a son somewhere that I don't know about?".9/10
Not since The Blair Witch Project has a low budget film been so hyped up as Paranormal Activity. The only difference? Paranormal Activity is actually scary! I hate to say this because I know all the hype is turning a lot of people off, but I really have to say that this was an extremely effective film for it's budget. It's the Halloween season, what's a classic thing to do? Tell ghost stories. The thing about ghost stories that makes them so scary is that your mind plays tricks on you and something pitted against you that no Jason or Freddy or Michael could ever make you pee your pants, your imagination. Paranormal Activity takes those bumps, screeches, scratches and shaky noises of the night and makes you wonder what happens when you're asleep. I have to be honest, I could not fall asleep after I saw this film because I live in an apartment that makes a bunch of creepy sounds.The reason I'm so scared to hype this film up is because I don't think it's going to have the same effect on everyone. The reason why is this is the type of story that just depends on what scares you. If a serial killer chasing the girl with big boobs scares you, this probably won't. If you believe there's more to that shadow you see before fall asleep and that there is something more to the after life, then this movie will definitely give you the creeps. The couple isn't haunted by ghosts, but something a little more scary, a demon that is feeding off their negative energy. Which I honestly think happens in real life and it's the supernatural that scares me. It's the things that require faith that scare me, something that you can't see, but you know exists. That is what terrifies me. From Night #1 in Paranormal Activity to the last night in the three weeks had me scared half to death and the ending that will stay with me for a long time.Micah and Katie who claims that since her youth, a ghostly entity has haunted her, are a young couple. When strange phenomena occurs such as lights flickering and faucets turning on and off on their own, Katie believes the ghost has followed her to their home. Micah buys a video camera in the hopes of capturing paranormal activity on film. Each night, he leaves the video camera on a tripod in their bedroom to record whatever might be occurring while he and Katie sleep. On the first night Katie's keys are heard being thrown to the floor, where they are found the next morning. After this, Katie calls in Dr. Fredrichs, a psychic who assesses that they are being plagued not by a ghost, but by a demon that is intent on haunting Katie no matter where she goes. The hauntings continue. Micah suggests buying a Ouija board to contact the demon, as he is excited about the possibility of a real haunting, but Katie implores him not to. That night, the couple are awoken by what sounds like footsteps. Suddenly, what sounds like an inhuman roar and a loud bang reverberate from somewhere deep in the house. Micah finally borrows a Ouija board from a friend, infuriating Katie. While the two are arguing outside, a wind blows through the living room and the Ouija board's planchette moves on its own before a small fire erupts and extinguishes on the board. Katie agrees to allow Micah to try one more experiment. Micah leaves baby powder on the floor in the upstairs hallway, hoping the demon will leave tracks. That night, the plan succeeds; they awaken to the sound of footsteps and find three-toed tracks.Like I said, I don't want to over hype this film, it's something you have to experience for yourself. But if you do see it, see it in the theater, because I think it's part of the experience. I know now that the film has a wider release, there are people who are not scared by this movie are just saying it's a bad film. Now while I understand that it may not have scared you, I think this was still very well made for what little money they had and was very effective. If you lived in my apartment for a night, believe me, you'd know a reason why it scared me. A lot of people have experienced some sort of paranormal activity, just depends on wither you believe it or not. Like I said, a classic ghost story is always about the strange noises you hear or how something moved that you know you put somewhere else. Believe me, a movie has not effected me this much since The Exorcist, Paranormal Activity crawls under your skin and doesn't let go.9/10
Ah, summer blockbuster 2010 has started, and what bigger bang than with the sequel to 2008's smash hit, Iron Man? I really did enjoy the first Iron Man, it was exciting, action packed and different from other super hero movies that we see. Most super hero's hide themselves and stay very introverted in their "normal human" disguise, but Tony Stark was something different, he was so alive and colorful and admits pretty much off the bat to the world that he is Iron Man. Naturally he is going to get a lot of challengers in the world and we love to see him take them on as he knows how hot he is and doesn't hide it. So Iron Man 2 is the sequel that everyone who loved the first Iron Man had to see. I admit that I was extremely excited, this looked even better than the first Iron Man. So I got to see it this weekend and I have to say that my friends and I were a little disappointed. Not to say this is a bad movie by any means, it's a good one and very much worth the theater experience, but it didn't have the same "pazazz" as the other Iron Man had. Usually most sequels have this part of having to explain the characters, go a little more in depth with them, Iron Man 2 is no stranger to this. Now it can either be good or bad, in this case, Iron Man 2 fell a little short and started to bore me; but it does come back for an awesome ending.Six months after revealing his identity as Iron Man, Tony Stark, has helped maintain world peace. A United States Senate committee, led by Senator Stern, demands Stark release the technology for military application. Stark refuses, declaring that he and the suit are as one while also claiming his competitors are years away from successfully recreating the technology. Afraid of a possible doom he's facing, he appoints his former personal assistant Pepper Potts CEO of Stark Industries, replacing her with Natalie Rushman. While racing in Monaco, Stark is attacked by Ivan Vanko, who has constructed an arc reactor of his own, along with whip-like energy weapons. Stark defeats Vanko. Afterward, Stark learns that Vanko is the son of his father's old partner. Ivan blames the Starks for his family's poor fate, and seeks revenge. Rival weapons manufacturer Justin Hammer has Vanko broken out of jail and recruits him to perfect a line of armored combat units he will use to upstage Stark at his own Expo.Mickey Rourke over all does his job well as the main villain of the story, but my only problem is that a lot of his lines I couldn't understand. He has a thick Russian accent that over does it a little too much because I kept leaning over and asking my friends "what did he say" and they would respond with "I have no idea". Trying to be as intimidating as Ivan Drako in Rocky IV(heck, even their last names look alike) it didn't work as well. Scarlett Johansson was a little dull at first but once again comes back with a vengeance in the end as she has possibly the coolest fight scene in the film. Robert Downey, Jr. as usual does a great job, my only problem being once again, in the first Iron Man, he was confident and smooth, this one he was more cocky and a jerk. I couldn't root for him as much with this sequel. But Iron Man 2 still delivers in the action, the effects are just as cool and really keep you on the edge of the seat. There are some good laughs and over all a decent enough story, it just could have used a little more sparkle I think. But I'm satisfied with Iron Man 2, it gives the audience what it wants and doesn't hold back on the action.6/10
I admit when I first saw the trailer for Journey to the Center of the Earth, it didn't really seem like it was going to be much fun to see on my own. But I decided to go ahead and give it a fair chance, I got to see it in 3D as well, I think that's part of what made it so much to watch. I know it sometimes feels like a kid thing but I think the 3D adds so much to the action since you feel like you are part of the movie. I also felt like this was actually well done and wasn't cheesy at all. I did see the original Journey to the Center of the Earth when I was a kid, I used to love watching it, now I'm an adult so seeing this newer version of the film brought back a few memories and created some new one's for this generation.Trevor is a professor who isn't really taken serious by his colleagues at the college as well as his students. When his sister in law drops off his nephew, Sean, for the week while she finds a new home in Canada, he goes through his brother's old things. Trevor finds the book Journey to the Center of the Earth with notes from his brother who has been missing for a long time. Trevor and Sean want to find out if this was real and travel to Iceland, with the help of an adventurer, Hannah, they go to the center of the Earth to find some amazing things you could never imagine.Journey to the Center of the Earth is worth the watch, I think what made it more exciting was the 3D, as cheesy as it sounds, it made the action more real and just apart of you. The story was fun and the effects were not too over bearing thankfully with the CGI. This is also the year of Brandon Fraiser, I know a lot of people think he is dull, but I thought he brought a lot of life to the movie, I think his career just keeps moving up. This movie is worth the watch in the theater, at home I don't think it will have the same effect, so if you get the chance, I would recommend it, this was a fun movie to watch and very enjoyable.7/10
Ah, 10 years, 10 long agonizing years, the fans of The Boondock Saints finally got their wish and we got Boondock Saints 2: All Saints Day. A couple of years ago for my communication class we had a project to show how communication was used in film and one of the girls in my class showed a clip of this film, I asked her about it and she said that it's one of the best movies of all time. So we went to Blockbuster for me to rent it, while it's not Citizen Kane, it's still a really fun and entertaining movie, one of my personal favorite guilty pleasures in my DVD collection. How could you not love it? It's over the top, funny and a satire to all action movies while pointing out how good people go home to see horrible things on the news when a rapist or a murderer gets out of jail on bail. The Saints are back to teach others the lesson they need to be taught. The sequel was well worth the wait and if you're a fan of the first film, I'm sure you'll love this fun action movie as well.Connor and Murphy, and their father Noah fled to Ireland and remained in a secluded farmhouse for the past eight years. Their uncle Sibeal arrives to inform them that a renowned Boston priest they heard of was murdered by a mysterious assassin who attempted to copycat their method. In response, the brothers dig up their old clothes and guns and prepare to depart back to Boston. On a freighter en route to Boston, they meet a Mexican fighter named Romeo who admires the saints and offers his resources in Boston if he is allowed to join them, and they accept. They hear a radio broadcast regarding Papa Joe's son Concezio Yakavetta and deduce that he is the man who hired the hit-man to kill the priest and draw them out of hiding. Meanwhile, Detectives Dolly, Duffy, and Greenly are at the scene of the priest's murder and become worried that their involvement in the murder of Papa Joe will be revealed. They are greeted by Special Agent Eunice Bloom, the protégé of Paul Smecker, and investigate the death of the priest. They agree that it was not the Saints who murdered the priest, as the gun angles, exit wounds, and placement of pennies don't match. They work together as the brothers return to their home where they are wanted for murdering the mob boss, but admired by so many.The new editions to the cast such as Julie Benz and Clifton Collins Jr. were great and worked very well with the characters. I loved that we had more Billy Connelly, he's just an awesome actor and was a perfect pick as the father of our Saints. It felt almost a little Godfather Part 2 with going back into Billy's past to see how he became the man we saw in the first film. Sean and Norman still have that chemistry that works extremely well, but I think it was the supporting cast that stole the show. A lot of critics complain that this movie is too much like Quentin Tarantino or that it's too violent or stupid, but honestly, I think many critics have a stick up their butt. They don't know what this film means to the fans and as a fan, I absolutely enjoyed it and am very much looking forward to the next sequel as we are left with a cliff hanger. If you're not a fan of the first film or didn't like it, I'm not sure if you'll get a kick of this one either. It was definitely made more so for the fans which I understand on Duffy's part, but I would've tried to pull in a new audience as this was released in the movie theater. Meaning that if you haven't seen the first film, you're not going to get this one probably, there are a lot of references to the first Boondock. But still, I loved this film and had a great time, Sean, Norman and Billy did not loose their touch, they are still awesome.9/10
I'm going to admit something off the bat, I've seen all the Harry Potter movies, but I've only seen them once and usually it's in the theater. The last Harry Potter film ended terrifically and I couldn't wait to see what the next installment was, to my surprise they decided to split the story into two parts: for story or money? I'm guessing more money vs. story, I mean come on, you know that Hollywood is bummed since these films are guaranteed money makers, and what a bad influence; it inspired Twilight to do so as well. Anyways I digress, since I've only seen each film only once and never read the books, I have to admit that I was confused throughout the film, thankfully I rented this one and watched it a couple of times, but to me, unless you're a die hard fan, this was the duller Harry Potter film I've seen of the bunch. This is basically the Harry Potter Project where the trio is just walking around the woods just trying not to get killed and learning how to survive. I know I will get hate points for that comment, but let's put it this way, I'm more looking forward to part 2 of the Deathly Hallows.Lord Voldemort gains power throughout the Wizarding and Muggle worlds. Meanwhile, the Order of the Phoenix arrive at Privet Drive and escort Harry to safety using potion to create six decoy Harrys. During their flight to the Burrow they are ambushed by Death Eaters, resulting in the deaths of Mad-Eye Moody and Hedwig. Voldemort attempts to kill Harry with Malfoy's wand, but fails. It's revealed that Harry was also willed to receive the Sword of Godric Gryffindor, however Scrimgeour states that the sword is an important historical artifact and is not eligible to be given away. Under the disguise of Polyjuice Potion, the trio infiltrate the Ministry and successfully retrieve the locket, escaping into the wilderness. But making Voldemort more determined to find the wand that will destroy Harry once and for all.Now I don't want to bash the film, because it is very good, however I think I need to see all the films again before I see Part 2. I was lost during certain moments of the film because I've forgotten some of the information from the previous films. However, as usual the effects are fantastic and very fun to look at. The actors have grown so much and have such great chemistry that's carried on the past decade, it's great to see how far they've come. It's also sad to see what their characters had to give up as children and going into this world with such power and still not 100% sure on how to control it all. Not to mention who has the most power and who is in control of the group? Something I question though, because the series was more meant for children and granted the children who started the books are growing up but these stories have become a lot more darker. Not bad for the adults, but I think since kids IMO are a little more "wussy" now, they might not be able to handle this story, especially with the themes. But as a movie, it's good, but you definitely have to keep up with these stories, otherwise you will be very lost like me in the Harry Potter Woods.7/10
I saw The Grey opening weekend, with Liam Neeson, how could you ever miss a film with this guy? He's such a good actor and has such a commanding presence and from the trailer I was expecting a B type movie with some cheesy acting and over the top action scenes. Instead I went to philosophy class questioning what death is all about. Almost 15 years ago there was a film called The Edge that was similar to this film only taking more of an action route, it's an enjoyable film and I think that's what I was expecting The Grey to be about. The Grey instead has a little bit more of a deeper meaning, disputing death. Is it horrifying to think about or is it peaceful? It's violent, it's quiet, it's scary but maybe we try to fight it too much. Having to accept the difference between fate and destiny can also be exhausting to think about.John Ottway works in Alaska killing the wolves that threaten an oil drilling team. Upon the completion of the job, the team and Ottway embark on a plane headed for home during a blizzard. The plane cannot withstand the weather and it crashes in the middle of nowhere. Ottway awakens and finds Todd, Talget, Diaz, Hendrick, Burke, and Hernandez. While Ottway is searching for wood, he sees a woman in need of help, but soon finds her being eaten by a gray wolf who also attacks Ottway. He is quickly rescued by the others and explains that they are most likely standing in the wolves' territory and are unwelcome. He later tells them that they must try to get to the trees, which are miles away in a nasty blizzard otherwise they will be picked off by the wolves one by one. Even though they make it, they still have to find help but the wolves are still after them and it's a fight for their lives in the middle of no where.The Grey does a magnificent job in the atmosphere, you really feel cold and isolated with the group. The whole scope of the film with it's images was beautiful and terrifying at the same time, one of those moments where you'd rather be looking at a photo of it, not be stuck in it with little chance of survival. I also adore the hidden meaning where the boys are bragging about how it was amazing they survived the crash and it was destiny to survive, but what is their fate when they realize they're not "completely out of the woods yet" sort of speak. It's heartbreaking to see some of them go and accept death. It's also crazy to watch them turn as vicious as some of the wolves they've been avoiding so much. The wolf pact is done so well and the effects are so chilling. The acting is decent enough. My only complaint about the film is the lack of character development, I could feel for Ottway played by Neeson because you understand some of the pain he's enduring while trying to survive. But he pulls out of the pictures of those who have passed and you see they have kids or family members and honestly I didn't care too much because it's a film that is pretty much just about survival. Also I didn't need a million flashbacks to Ottway's wife, I understand it was to show the impact she had in his life, but the letter alone to me showed how much he loved and missed her. The ending, I think will be a hit or miss with some, I was a little disappointed as I feel a little jipped. I went through the story with Ottway I would've loved to see his showdown with the alpha male, even if the scene after the credits indicates that they both went down, I would've loved to see him put up the fight. But I still would recommend this incredible film, it has it's flaws but is very strong and one of the best of 2012 so far. Liam is an actor who never ceases to amaze me and the scene with him screaming to God to show him a sign was heart breaking and one of my favorite in cinema history.8/10
When I saw the trailer for 27 Dresses, I was like "Oh, my God, not again", typical plot, chick flick written all over it with over cheesy dialog and unrealistic situations that sadly I can completely predict. But thanks to the wonderful users of IMDb who gave this movie great reviews. My friend begged me to go see this with her, so I figured since she was treating and it was getting good reviews, it might be worth a look, so we saw it today, and I think my friend hates me, because I told her what would happen in the next scene and it would happen. This romantic comedy genre, doesn't anyone realize that these stupid plots are just recycled from one romantic comedy to the next?! The only thing they do is a "twist", a wedding planner, a hotel maid, a treasure hunter, blah, blah, blah. The actors couldn't even save this film.Jane is a girl who has been in 27 weddings, she's so used to always putting others before herself. Her little sister, Tess, even steals her crush, George, and lies her way into making him love her. They get engaged and now Jane is once again the maid of honor, torture, huh? But guess what? There is a guy who surprisingly drives her insane, Kevin, a journalist who is writing an article on Tess and George and also secretly Jane's randevu's with her passion for "always a bride's maid, never a bride" routine. But of course they somehow fall for each other and break up when she finds out about the article, please tell me you get it from this point? Because you should if you've seen any other romantic comedy.27 Dresses is a joke, I'm sorry, I know that's harsh, but these romantic comedies are very evil and manipulative in leading young girls onto what they think love is going to be or should be, or whatever. Sounds bitter, but do you honestly think that these movies are realistic or funny? It's so incredibly rare that we get a funny romantic comedy that is original and funny. Katherine Heigl is coming strong with her career, true, but I'm not impressed with her character choice. Jane's act on her little sister was a little too immature at the engagement party and she sunk to her sister's level, not to mention, why couldn't we have had just a regular, smart sister instead of a slut? It's just too common and predictable, seriously. The dialog "I get to have hot sex with random strangers and feel so much better"? Seriously, I'm just sick of romantic comedies, why aren't you? Trust me, this is not worth the look unless you fall for it each time.2/10
I just watched Superman III and was excited to see Richard Pryor on the cover, but then I even thought as I was paying for the rental "wait, why am I excited to see Richard Pryor more than Christopher Reeve?", it was an interesting thought. But I was thinking maybe it's just because I was just more used to being excited about some kind of comedy, but the problem was that it seemed like the comedy took over what could've been a great super hero story.Superman/Clark Kent is now invited to his high school reunion where he sees his old high school crush and they hit it off. Gus, played by Pryor, is a computer worker, he is asked by a big boss to play with the computers and control the weather and more! But when Superman interferes with that, they decide to throw some kryptonite at him, but it fails, but turns Superman into a bad guy! Hence the alternate title of "Superman vs. Superman".Like I said, it just didn't seem to balance right with these two huge movie stars. In the 70's and 80's, Richard Pryor could do no wrong, he was so popular, and I think that overshadowed Christopher's presence on the screen. The comedy and drama didn't mesch well, I just think that this could've been a great sequel, but just didn't excel to what it could'v been.4/10
Richard Nixon, one of the most controversial men of political history, loved by few, hated by many. This is the movie that finally depicted Nixon not just a man who screwed up the country or cheated his way and abused his power, we see him as a human being. We also see David Frost who despite just wanted a boost in his career went in with courage to take on Richard Nixon and didn't expect to get into the fight of the century. Ron Howard added the perfect charisma that this movie needed and had the perfect cast to make the story unbiased. Frank Langella, I love this man, ever since I was a little girl and saw him as Dracula, I was so enchanted with him. He's a terrific actor that was just due to get an Oscar nomination and this is the role that won him that honor of being noticed. Frost/Nixon is the actor's movie that deserved much more attention from audiences who truly need a lesson in American history.A series of news reports documents Richard Nixon in the Watergate scandal, prior to his resignation speech. Meanwhile, David Frost has finished recording an episode of his talk show and watches on television as Nixon leaves the White House. A few weeks later Frost discusses with his producer and friend, John Birt, the possibility of an interview. When Frost mentions Nixon as the subject, Birt doubts the likelihood that Nixon would be willing to talk to Frost. Nixon discusses his memoirs with literary agent Irving Lazar, who tells the former president of a request by Frost to conduct an interview with an offer of $600,000. Lazar contacts Frost to inform him that Nixon is interested, so Frost and Birt fly to California to meet with Nixon. Frost hires two investigators, Bob Zelnick and James Reston Jr. to dig for information along with Birt, mainly on the Watergate scandal and the interviews begin, making Frost realize that they don't call Nixon "Tricky Dick" for nothing in the ultimate battle interview of the decade.Frost/Nixon is one of the finest movies that came out of 2008, we had a lot of terrific movies that year, that's why I feel that this movie was somewhat over shadowed. But I have a feeling that this movie will be considered an American classic down the line. Frank and Michael had great chemistry and you could cut the tension in that interview with a gardening sheerer, it was so thick. Ron Howard did a terrific job on the style of the movie, it really captured the feel of the 1970's and the time where America's number one enemy was a man they had elected themselves to run the country. I do highly recommend this movie, especially over a film like Nixon, while that was a good movie, it was over done and Frank raised the bar on performances when it comes to portraying Richard Nixon, he had him down and I felt like I was staring right at Tricky Dick. This is a fantastic movie, I recommend you watch it if you get the chance.10/10
At my movie theater that I work at for some odd reason we got Vicky Cristina Barcelona 2 weeks after it's release, strange, but I don't know how these things work. But people were walking out very pleased with the movie. So I decided to go ahead and check it out, so I watched it this afternoon. Now we all have to admit, Woody has just been out of his game these past few decades, not since Annie Hall has he had a very memorable film. Nor have none of them have that creative edge that Woody has, but he still has something because Vicky Cristina Barcelona is a good movie. It has a strong story and was very different than any film we have had this year. We have a narrator throughout the film that just tells us the story as if he was reading a book. We have a strong cast that they can all hold their own on scree: Scarlett Johansson, Javier Bardem, and Penelope Cruz. They hold a strong chemistry and make the story very interesting.Vicky and Cristina are best friends who are going to Barcelona for the summer, Vicky is a believer of realistic love and is engaged to a successful man who can make her ideal marriage dream work. Cristina is the idealist of a romantic love and meets a Spanish handsome charmer, Juan Antonio who invites the girls to another city for a weekend. He gets Cristina's notice automatically, but Vicky takes some seducing to get into bed. But Juan's crazy ex wife gets back into his life and just makes things very interesting for Cristina. Vicky starts to question her ideals on love when she is just swept off her feet with Juan.Vicky Cristina Barcelona is a very well told story and nothing like I've seen before. Even though I found it to be unrealistic at times, this movie was just different, which we all need and Woody has a talent for showing that, as he has shown us with his private life, lol. But the acting is good and there are some funny moments and some touching one's as well. I loved how crazy Penelope was in this movie, she was like Fatal Attraction scary, yet you could see how Javier's character fell for her so hard, I don't blame him, I found her craziness attractive as well. So I do recommend this movie if you have the opportunity to see it, the characters are cool and the story is wonderful, Woody is back and throws in one last punch in the fight for his career.8/10
Eagle Eye's trailer was one of the coolest trailers that I had seen in a little while, so I was looking forward to seeing it. I work at a movie theater and a lot of people were walking out very happy, so I had high hopes, so I saw it a couple of weeks ago, I don't know, it's very strange because it seems like after I saw it and didn't like it, the audience didn't like it either. The rating however here on IMDb continued to rise, so I wanted to think this movie over, but seriously, I'm still not crazy over Eagle Eye. My problem with it is that it's dumb, it's just a silly story line, there's a good unrealistic and there's a bad unrealistic, this is a bad unrealistic. Not to mention that I thought it was unoriginal with the "technology will destroy us all" story line, if you are going to use this story line once again, I suggest making it worth my time.Jerry Shaw is a young man who is kind of a bum, he really needs to get his life together, just needs a little determination. Well he might get that when he receives a phone call from a mysterious lady who is telling him to get out of his weapon stuffed apartment and that the FBI are about to bust in, he fails and is arrested. Later we meet a young woman who is also a mother, Rachel, and the same lady calls her threatening her son if she doesn't follow the rules. Jerry escapes and finds Rachel, together they are ordered around town to get a bomb for this voice that can alter any cell phone, computer, even signs on the sides of the building, or there will be horrible consequences. Agent Morgan is chasing after these two having to realize maybe there's more to this than just Jerry and Rachel running from the law.Eagle Eye does truly deliver on the action, as much as I hate to say it, this car chase scene in the movie is very exciting and should be watched on the big screen. There are some other very tense and fun moments, but great action doesn't make a great movie. I also felt like Michelle Monaghan is miscast, somehow this woman who looks like she could be no older than 25 years old is playing a mom, it was just odd to take her as this character. Then they place a strange love story between her and Shia and it just throws the movie off completely. I would say if you're going to spend money on it, do a matinée, otherwise, I'd say skip it, to me at least this was just an over blown movie that could have been toned down just a smidge.4/10
As you all know I am very rarely wrong(note the sarcasm, lol), well this is one of those cases where I was extremely wrong. When I saw the trailer for the movie Taken, I thought "Oh, great, another 'surprising and suspenseful' thriller that will I'm sure be the ending we never saw coming", after all I've seen way too many of those movies. But after so many positive reviews of this movie I decided to go ahead and give it a fair shot. I adore Liam Neeson, but when I heard the role that he took as a deadly agent that you don't wanna mess with, I was in question. I tell you, this movie took me by complete and total surprise, this was a great movie. The story is something that we've seen a million times before, but what made this movie more special then the others are the fantastic performances and script that made this into an exciting and intense thriller.Bryan Mills is a retired CIA operative from their elite Special Activities Division. He describes his former job as being a "preventer," but has recently retired in Los Angeles solely in order to be close to his 17-year-old daughter Kim who now lives with his ex-wife Lenore and her new wealthy husband Stuart. Mills discovers that Kim wants to take a holiday trip to Paris, with her friend Amanda. Despite his initial concerns about the trip, Mills allows her to go, later discovering that their actual plan is to travel around Europe following the band U2. Arriving at the Paris airport, Kim and Amanda meet a Frenchman named Peter, who offers to share a taxi with them to their apartment. When they arrive, Amanda reveals to Peter that she and Kim are unsupervised, because her family is in Spain. Peter invites the two girls to a party; Kim is reluctant, but Amanda, who is sexually attracted to Peter, hastily agrees. In the house, Kim receives a phone call from her father, which she answers in the bathroom. From the bathroom window, she sees men entering the main room and abducting Amanda. Mills is able to gain critical information about the kidnappers in the final moments after Kim is kidnapped by telling her to shout out everything about them that she notices. Briefly, Mills talks to one of the kidnappers, warning him that unless Kim is released, he will pursue him and kill him.Seriously, I'm so glad that I was wrong about this movie, I couldn't tell you how many times I had my hands over my face or cheered or screamed during this movie, it was so exciting. Liam Neeson, I couldn't believe how scary he was, I've seen him in tough guy roles before but just the delivery of the line "I will find you and kill you" was delivered so perfectly, just calm, cold and confident. I just loved how the bad guy said "good luck", yeah, he wasn't as confident when Liam popped up in to get his revenge. Another thing about this movie that I absolutely loved is that it wasn't one of those "big twist" endings that are so stupid and predictable, this was just one of those "in the wrong place at the wrong time" situations. I highly recommend Taken if you get the chance to see it, it's exciting and a great movie. Liam is one dude you do not want to mess with.8/10
When I saw the theatrical trailer to Tenacious D: The Pick of Destiny, it looked like one of the most stupid movies on Earth. Especially since I was so disappointed with Nacho Libre, I was wondering if Jack Black lost his comedic edge. But my friend called me a few nights ago and told me that this movie was so hilarious and that I needed to see it, so I figured to give it a shot, so I rented it. I just watched it and I have to admit that I just had a great time watching it. I am a huge classic rock lover, so I think that's part of the reason why I loved it so much, but the guys made the movie work and had great chemistry.JB is a kid who ran away from his religious family to become a rock star, when he gets to Hollywood he finds another old balding heavy set man KG who is playing his guitar on the streets. He is extremely impressed with KG and begs him to be in a band with him. KG lies and tells him that he's a huge rock star, but when JB finds out what a fake KG is, he forgives him and they find out what makes a band great and that is "The Pick of Destiny", so they must go to the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame to find the pick that will make them play like true guitar Gods.It has funny music, some great humor and some gross, and the story just worked for a comedy. I thought this was a great surprise, I really enjoyed Tenacious D: The Pick of Destiny, I think anyone could too. Believe me, you'll definitely enjoy the scene where KG and JB are fighting to "outrock" Satan, I have to admit that I've never seen anything like that, it was great. So, please have fun, this was a big step up from Nacho Libre for Jack Black.7/10
I work in a movie theater part time and we got Semi-Pro, now I hate Will Ferrell with a passion, I don't get how people love his movies, some of them are funny, but it's more of his side characters that get the laughs from me. But I figured, I needed a laugh after work and I decided to just go ahead and see the movie, it might have a few good laughs, I saw it for fee and even that was too much for what this film was. I'm very much not kidding, this movie, the theater was about 75% full and there was only two people who laughed, even that was just a chuckle. I don't get what is so funny about making Will Ferrell puke, in fact let's play on that joke quite a bit so it becomes more awkward. Let's also put in jokes that refer to "the future" since it's set in the 70's, that'll be a blast. And also, let's put in some extremely uncomfortable shots of Will Ferrell's crotch, yeah, that was so funny, that I wanted to puke.Jackie Moon is a one hit wonder in the 70's, but with the money he made off that, he buys the Flint Tropical's, a team that once was great, but now stink. They have an opportunity though to go to the NBA if they can be one of the top four teams to win the games. With the help of a former champion basketball player, Monix, who has lost it basically, they'll try to achieve the best, by getting fourth place. Jackie comes up with some stupid publicity stunts to get an audience as well.Semi-Pro is seriously, just stupid, I'm not saying that because of Will Ferrell, I just mean this film is very unfunny and the only part that made me laugh was the bear attacking Will Ferrell, sad, huh? I'm really not trying to be a hater on this film, but how do people laugh at this junk? Will Ferrell plays the same character in each of his films, doesn't anyone catch on? The characters in this film are not likable at all because they're not explained well. Semi-Pro was just a bad movie, I promise you, I'm not saying this because of Will, I'm saying in general, just stay away from this film.2/10
I was actually kind of looking forward to Traitor, Don Cheadle and Guy Pearce are two incredible actors who I was looking forward to seeing on film together. Also the plot seemed very interesting and like this could be a great film, I was a little disappointed though, even though this is a decent and watchable film, there's nothing special about the film that stands out from other political films. One film that I feel has stood out was Rendition, now I like this where we have the point of view from the terrorist and why they do what they do, what they believe in, and why they feel it is necessary to kill people in their on going war. I also did like how Traitor kept you wondering who was really in on the war and who was going to back out. But the film does drag on a little and at times my head felt too spun around, especially at the end, maybe it'll take a second look, but I think most would be confused by this movie.Samir Horn has grown up in a terrorist world, his father was killed by a terrorist act, but when he grows up, he decides to help out the terrorists by making money, he sells bombs and weapons. The FBI are trying to get him to confess on where the bombs are and where the suicide bombers are plotting to go next. Samir gets mixed up with the terrorists, becoming a murderer, becoming mixed up with the American government, eventually having to decide if he wants to continue to destroy innocent people's lives or save some lives.Traitor is one of the better films released in August, but like I said, I didn't think anything stood out too well with this film. It also irritated me that it makes it seem as if the person sitting next to you on the public bus could be a terrorist, these films do frighten me on a certain level, I know they could be true, but it's making me a bit uncomfortable at times, Traitor cannot be watched for entertainment, it's a message film and makes you think about the world. It's a well acted film, it's very well made, I just wasn't too thrilled with it, but I would say it's good for a matinée.6/10
Robert Downey, Jr., if there was ever a story of comeback, this man has the ultimate life to tell anyone. 2008 was his year and now he's knocking everyone dead again in 2009. We end the year with his sure to be a hit movie, Sherlock Holmes. One of the world's most famous detectives and most beloved adventurous stories to hit the big screen. Which I still think that The Great Mouse Detective is my favorite Sherlock Holmes story(or homage if you will). See, Sherlock Holmes had an incredible amount of potential that could have either made it one of the funnest movies of the year or even an Oscar contender. Unfortunately, I wasn't as thrilled as I thought I would be. For one, it was a bit too long running at 130 minutes, it's a little slow paced at times and you just loose track of the story. Also while Robert and Jude have a great on screen chemistry to work this incredible friendship, along comes Rachel McAdams. Don't get me wrong, I like the girl, she's a decent actress, but I have no idea what she's doing in this film. Her character is essential, but I don't think this was her role. Guy Ritchie, this is definitely a step up from his previous films that he's directed, I wish this could've been a home run in movies for him because I think he does have a great talent, but Sherlock Holmes did turn into a disappointment.In 1891 London, Sherlock Holmes and Dr. John Watson race to prevent a human sacrifice ritual conducted by Lord Blackwood. Holmes and Watson stop the sacrifice just in time and neutralize Lord Blackwood, after which the police arrive and arrest him. Blackwood's execution occurs three months later, during which Holmes has become bored without a new case. Holmes is re-acquainted with Irene Adler. She offers him a sum of money to pursue a case of a missing red-haired midget by the name of Reardon. Holmes disguises himself to find the identity of Adler's employer, but can only surmise him as a professor. Three days after Blackwood's execution, his tomb is found shattered, from the inside out, and an eyewitness reports seeing Blackwood walking away. Holmes, Watson, and Lestrade find Blackwood's coffin contains the body of the red-haired midget. As Holmes and Watson investigate, the two senior members are killed through apparent magical means by Blackwood, and he assumes control of the order, desiring to use the Order's power to push for England to retake the United States.The film is entertaining, it's by no means a bad movie and is definitely worth the watch, but I think I could have waited for the rental. Maybe I was expecting a bit too much from the film, but from the trailer I was pumped to see this movie. Personally I would've liked to see more of the friendship between Robert and Jude, they were really great on screen together and always come in with adventure and a good laugh. Mark Strong makes a good villain as Lord Blackwood, but once again, his character has no depth really and doesn't give me the chills like Alan Rickman or Jeremy Irons would have in a film like this. But who knows, I'm not a casting director. I probably will watch this film once again as some of my friends wanted to see it and will probably rent it one night for us all to watch, I might like it a little better the next time, which will call for a re-write. But until then I wasn't really happy with the movie and just expected so much more.7/10
I was really excited to see 1941 when it turned out to be on Bravo's 100 Funniest Movies, not to mention that when I looked at the cover at Hollywood Video, this movie had Dan Aykroyd, John Candy, John Belushi, among some of Hollywood's greatest actors. Now the fact that Steven Spielberg directed the movie got me more excited. When I checked out the rating for 1941, I got scared, I mean 5.5 isn't that exciting. Especially for a Spielberg film, usually most people get excited and love the film. Now granted, Spielberg was never the king of comedies, but 1941 is a decent film that gives you a few laughs, it's just a screw ball comedy, I admit some jokes are a little random, but over all this is a film that works and is just plain fun. Yes, it's a bit long and sometimes a little odd, the story though was something that was fun because sometimes we just need a little fun with history.It's 6 days after the Pearl Harbor bombing and now the Japenese are coming after United State's pride and joy, Hollywood, lol. Basically, we just go through California citizen's lives and what they are going through. We have the wacky couple who can't seem to stay together. A silly guy with huge pride for his country. An army who seems to have a hard time getting how to actually fight. A crazed air pilot, crazy German captains, along with the Japenese who invaded the country are dressed up as Christmas trees. Well, let's just hope that they'll be alright with this silly invasion.1941 is at times very random and doesn't know wither to be a mental comedy or a screwball comedy, but it still delivers a good laugh to those who are just looking for a fun movie. Don't go by the rating here on IMDb, I actually had fun watching this film and I'm not sure why people are giving it a hard time. But it looks like the cast had a genuinely good time making this film. The story is a bit much to follow, but it's worth a watch at least. 1941 is all in good fun, so just grab the popcorn and have a few laughs, I'm sure you'll get it with at least John Belushi's character.7/10
I remember back in 1997 when Men in Black came out, it was such a huge hit and Will Smith was on top of the world that year. It was a good movie and a big hit that naturally they wanted to crank out a sequel. The sequel wasn't exactly that good though, so you'd think the series ended with that. After a 4 year hiatus from acting on Will Smith's part, who has gone from fresh prince to box office success to a critical love child, you wondered what would be his comeback. I guess he wanted to go back to his old roots with trying to give life back into Men In Black. When I saw the trailer, I have to admit that in some way I was kind of excited to see this one. To see some good old nostalgia and see the awesome chemistry between Smith and Jones again. But time travel is a tricky plot that needs to be handled with delicacy and Men in Black does stumble quite a bit but is saved by Brolin's excellent performance as the young Agent K.The intergalactic criminal Boris the Animal has escaped from the LunarMax prison on Earth's moon. He is intent on going back in time and killing Agent K, who shot off his arm and captured him. K regrets not killing Boris and returns to his apartment, where all traces of him disappear. Agent J still remembers K, though no one else at Men in Black headquarters does. Aided by electronic-shop owner, who created the time-travel device, J time-jumps off the Chrysler Building to reach time-travel velocity. With only 24 hours to stop Boris, J arrives a day before Boris kills K. Thus bringing him back to life in the future, but along the way finds out secrets of the universe that were meant to be kept for a reason.Seriously, you would think that Josh Brolin is Tommy Lee Jones' long lost son, his performance is fantastic. The look, the mannerisms, everything he had down so perfect, it's actually award worthy. He also makes for Agent K to be very likable again and gives him a certain life that was missing from the second film. Will Smith, he does a good job, but he tries too hard at times. He's older now, we know that, but for some reason he's still using the same slang from his fresh prince days. It doesn't even fit in the 1960's era. But still I have to admit that he's got that same charm that makes you laugh and just love him. Jemaine Clement plays a great Boris the Animal, very threatening and scary and his make up is excellent. Though it was weird, my fiancé and I really thought it was Tim Currey because of his voice, he could be the next Dr. Frank-N-Furter in the Rocky Horror Picture Show.It's the performances that really make this movie because the rest of it needed some major work. The special effects are actually pretty lousy compared to the first film, like the green screen effects. You could totally tell when it was a green screen behind the actors and it's not hidden very well. Also there are a few plot holes with the whole time traveling issue as most movies that handle this subject have. It's a tricky subject of "if someone I know now bumps into me in the past, will it affect the future?". Also, how can you stop something from happening without getting the notice, etc. I did predict the ending with Will Smith's "first time meeting K" which my fiancé looked at me and asked if I wrote the script. It's just if you've seen these type of movies, you know where they're going with certain subjects. However, despite the problems with the film, I really did enjoy it. It's not the first Men in Black, but it was a better follow up than what we were left with in the second film. I would recommend it for a rental, at most a matinée just for fun. One more thing I would've changed was: can we stop using "Empire State of Mind" by Jay-Z for New York set movies? I mean, I love the song, but for this instead when Will Smith comes back to 2012, they should've cued the always catchy "Men in Black" song, I would've been more hyped for that ending, since it would be kind of weird for 44-year-old Smith to be rapping like Snoop.6/10
Amazing how far we've come in the Sci-Fi genre, thinking back to the 1950's of all those alien movies that always somehow involved an improper joke about the Russians. Nevertheless, since then some incredible movies have come out and one after another each one has either been groundbreaking or just.. Battlefield Earth. District 9 brings in a new audience with many current issues we have today that include immigration, segregation, capitalism and hopes of a better future then the current. District 9 was showered with nothing but positive reviews and was even offered the Best Picture Oscar. I'm not so sure I see it as the best thing as sliced bread as some other critics praised the picture to be, but I really did love this film. Back in the 1980's, a film called Enemy Mine came out and seemed to be overlooked. The film has a similar plot and had to be carried by two great lead actors, only difference being the setting. So I don't look at District 9 as highly original or groundbreaking, however it's still a great movie that I was very impressed with. So used to the image where most Sci-Fi movies have a clean stainless steal look to the aliens and their home, this film is dirty. The aliens are ugly, but have personality and are friendly with humans, to those who don't fight their unfortunate situation having to stay on Earth. The humans however are mostly evil, almost to a fault where it will take just one human to be put in place of being as isolated as the aliens are.In District 9 a gigantic alien mother ship comes to Earth, hovering above Johannesburg, South Africa. After three months, a team breaks into the ship, discovering a group of over a million malnourished aliens, who are then given refuge on Earth. The aliens, derogatorily referred to as "prawns", are confined to a government camp inside Johannesburg called District 9. The camp is secured with a massive police presence, and it soon turns into a slum. Wikus, a young MNU employee, is promoted to an MNU executive to lead the relocation with the serving of illegal eviction notices. Meanwhile, three aliens, one named Christopher search for alien technology from which they distill a mysterious fluid, storing it in a small canister. Later, while raiding the shack of Christopher's friend, Wikus discovers and seizes the container, which when tampered with sprays a substance onto his face. The mysterious fluid makes him ill and consequently begins to turn his DNA and body into a prawn. MNU finds out and they force Wikus to test various weapons which he succeeds. Wikus, overpowers his captors and escapes. Now a fugitive, Wikus finds refuge in District 9 and eventually seeks help from Christopher. Christopher reveals to Wikus that the canister he was sprayed with is causing the mutation. He also states that the canister would allow him to reactivate the dormant mother ship and, using its equipment, he could reverse Wikus's mutation. Only problem is that the fluid was taken from Wilkus when he was put into the lab and they must now go back to retrieve it otherwise the aliens may never go home and Wilkus may never go back to his human form.Neill Blomkamp, the director of District 9 is really a mile stone in this fine film, he was only 28 years old when he made it. He has a true talent and a great eye, making the film partly into a mockumentary which I absolutely loved. It helped us get to know our anti hero of the film, Wilkus. Sharlto Copley who played Wilkus did a great job carrying the film, making us root for him at times but also hate him for all he did to the aliens in the first place by trying to evict them from their homes. Speaking of which, that was one of the best movie sequences I had seen, the aliens fighting their eviction and seeing how they live and are trying to adapt to the human's way of living. The one flaw to the film as I mentioned before is the human behavior, it's too evil to a fault. It's unbelievable that almost all the humans treat the aliens as trash, that the government was more interested in their technology vs. knowing the culture and life of these creatures. But District 9 was a great film and I would say that this is the best Sci-Fi film of the decade that I have seen. Very well done and a new classic that I'm sure will be mentioned in the future.9/10
After seeing Casino Royale a few months ago, I realized something, there is a big re-imagining of the James Bond series. James Bond is now more serious, a little darker, and has a lot more edge. I grew up with the 007 films, my dad and I watched them together all the time, they were always a blast to watch. Now I'm grown up and Daniel Craig is the new James Bond and he is so cool and smooth, he's taken on a very charismatic Bond, he'd make Sean Connery proud. Quantum of Solace is the very first James Bond movie that is actually a sequel, it continues right where Casino Royale took off, so there is no off set when it comes to the story. The action is jam packed, I loved a lot of the action/fight scenes incredibly, but I'd say it's a notch below Casio Royale since the director didn't seem to know how to edit well in those sequences, because I don't know about you, but I couldn't tell what was going on or who was getting hit. But the story is a great continence to Casino Royale.Betrayed by Vesper, the woman he loved, 007 fights the urge to make his latest mission personal. Pursuing his determination to uncover the truth, Bond and M interrogate Mr White who reveals the organization which blackmailed Vesper is far more complex and dangerous than anyone had imagined. Forensic intelligence links an Mi6 traitor to a bank account in Haiti where a case of mistaken identity introduces Bond to the beautiful but feisty Camille, a woman who has her own vendetta. Camille leads Bond straight to Dominic Greene, a ruthless business man and major force within the mysterious organization.Quantum of Solace is completely worth the watch, it was a lot of fun, it has it's small flaws. I think the editing just could have been a little better, like I said, some scenes go so fast that you can barely keep your head on from turning side by side. Daniel Craig is a great Bond, he is still incredibly cool to watch. However, Olga Kurylenko, pretty girl, but not exactly the most interesting "Bond Girl", nothing about her really stood out to me, so I hope they'll do better the next film. However, I did enjoy Quantum of Solace, it's a great action film and an excellent addition to the Bond series.8/10
I'm sorry, but for a movie that has been so stamped as a semi classic and a scary movie, but seriously, I think when the director has me laughing unintentionally, that's not a good thing. The characters in this film were just so over the top and unbelievable. I just couldn't stop laughing at Issac's voice, it was just like a high pitched whiny girl's British voice. Not to mention Malicai's over dramatic stick up his butt character.Children of the Corn is about a town where all the children have killed off the adults and worship a God that commands them to sacrifice any 20+ aged people. When a couple has a bad car accident they come to the town for help, but of course they get caught in the kid's trap and are getting sacrificed! But Malicai has other intentions when he is sick of following Issac's orders.Children of the Corn could've been something great, but turned into a bad over the top movie that you could easily make fun of. As much as I love Stephen King, I'm sure this is not what he intended and it was a pretty lame story, or at least the actors destroyed it. Like I said, for a good laugh, watch it, but I'm warning you, it's pretty pathetic.3/10
This year we had the big summer event of movies, it just seemed like one after another they were just lining up, we had Surf's Up, which would've seemed like the perfect hit for the summer, at least animation wise. But it turned out that it wasn't that big of a hit at the box office as other films were. I did wanna see Surf's Up in the theater, but I never go the chance to go see it. Finally I at least got to see it on rental this morning and Surf's Up was a fun little animation film to watch. It had a fun story, terrific animation, and lovable characters. While I would say that the humor is somewhat more on the adult side, it has fun animation and great jokes for the kids as well which made it a good family film to watch. The story was definitely original and was so clever the way the crew decided to shoot it.Cody is a penguin who has had a dream to be like his idol, Big Z, and be the top surfing penguin. When he goes to a paradise island to enter the big surfing contest, he discovers that unfortunately his idol was killed in a competition with the top surfing penguin, Tank. Cody befriends a chicken, Joe, who is also a surfer and is living the "high" life. But one day he sees Tank mocking Big Z's surfing board and challenges him to a surf off, but he gets wiped out, but he is brought back to health by Lani, another penguin, and her uncle, Geek, and soon Cody discovers the secrets of Big Z, but you'll have to see to find out how he does.I just don't wanna give any spoilers, but I promise you that this film is worth your watch. Surf's Up has great comedy and beautiful animation along with some very cool voices. I loved how they shot it like it was a reality show or just interviewing before the big contest, it just made it a little more cute, I know I get easily amused, but you'll understand when you see it. Surf's Up is a quiet hit of the summer, I really enjoyed this movie and I think you will too, even if the penguins have been breaking out a little too much these past couple years.8/10
Mystery Science Theater 3000, anyone who is a fan of this show is a friend of mine, it's a great show for any movie buff. The reason why the show is so loved is because it does what we always want to do or say during a really bad movie. So naturally the successful show that was created on Comedy Central wanted to do a movie about our favorite sarcastic robots. Was the movie a success? Not so much, but doesn't mean that this movie is bad at all, in fact, it's a great one to watch. My only disappointment? I think was just the fact that this was just like any other episode, there was nothing really too special about it to make it stand out as a movie. Secondly, I've seen funnier episodes than this movie. I'm not dissing the movie, because this is still completely worth the watch.Mike, Tom and Gypsy are startled to find Crow deep in the lower sections of the Satellite of Love, pounding at the hull with various digging instruments. He has convinced himself that he can tunnel back to Earth, he tells them. Checking his digging calculations, Crow discovers that he already knew this was inevitable: Look at that, Breach Hull, All Die. Even had it underlined! They return to the Bridge, as Dr. Forrester announces that he is about to make them watch the 1955 classic sci-fi thriller This Island Earth in an attempt to break their wills. In Mystery Science Theater 3000 tradition, we are in for a good ride as they mock this silly clichéd 50's sci fi film with no mercy.I do love the film that they picked This Island Earth, while in some sense it is a fun little sci fi classic, probably the first movie that I saw before I ever saw it on Mystery Science Theater 3000, it still is really cheesy and fun to make fun of. I just love at the end where the alien is trying to protect our two main characters away from the monster and for some odd reason he just lightly blocks the two people away from the monster as Mike points out "ACTING!", lol! Obviously fans of the show are going to see this movie, it's a little girt to the fans I think in some sense, I wish they had a few more cameos and could've gone a little bigger, but it's all good. For those who don't know the premise of the show, this is a funny movie, the people that I've introduced the show too have mixed reviews, a few loved it a few didn't really like it, so it's one of those movies you'll have to decide for yourself.9/10
LOL, I know I stole that line from I love the 70's, but I just thought it was so true and that was my exact thought from the first minute I started watching The Bad News Bears. Now to the movie, The Bad News Bears is one of the funniest movies I have seen in a long time, I almost died laughing throughout the whole movie. I obviously heard about this movie from the show I love the 70's on VH1, way before the remake with Billy Bob Thorton. It always slipped my mind though when I wanted to rent it, but finally I remembered and I am so glad that I got the chance to see it, because this is one of the best comedies to come out of the 70's.Buttermaker is a has been baseball player and now an alcoholic, he is given the job of a little league coach for the Bears since no other fathers are taking the job. But he's definitely taken back when he finds out that the team he is coaching are kids who are, well, I guess you could say "lacking" in the department of knowing how to play baseball. But he just wants to get paid and get the job over with, but when their first game comes along, the kids get creamed 26-0, Buttermaker is pressured to drop the team out of the league, but instead teaches the kids how to play and recruits a couple of new kids, a girl who's mother he used to date, and a rebel without a cause. The kids get better in each game, but it's a matter of Buttermaker getting his priorities straight when he lets the game get the worst of him... and he's an alcoholic! The Bad News Bears is just so funny, Walter Matthau was just too perfect for this role as Buttermaker, he was so believable. I think my favorite Bear was Tanner, because the role could have been over done, but the kid did it just right, not to mention his last line of the film is just classic and fit the movie just right. I loved how the film wasn't your traditional your favorite team is always going to be out of no where champions, this was an awesome comedy that anyone would just fall in love with.9/10
Nicolas Cage, I feel like an addictive gambler when it comes to this man, because there are times where he has some really great movies(i.e. Face/Off) then he has moments where I wonder if he was drinking when he accepted other movies(i.e. Wicker Man). He has some really great acting moments, but it seems like his movies lately, he just looks tired and like he stayed up the whole night memorizing his lines not realizing he hasn't had any sleep for 6 weeks. I don't know, I'm not quite sure why this has a high rating right now, but we'll see in the next few weeks, because honestly I wasn't all that thrilled with Knowing. From the trailer this looked really exciting, but instead we got a movie that just took itself too seriously. I thought it was mainly just poor writing for the story and the characters.In 1959, a competition is held amongst the students of a new elementary school to celebrate its opening. The winning plan, from student Lucinda Embry, is to bury a time capsule containing the students' drawings of the future to be opened 50 years later in 2009. She is prevented from finishing her image, which is actually a series of seemingly random numbers, and goes missing during the ceremony. Her teacher later finds her in a gym closet frantically scratching the remaining numbers on the door. Fifty years later, the time capsule is opened and the pictures are handed down to the new generation of students. Caleb, the son of MIT professor and astrophysicist John Koestler, receives Lucinda's envelope. While initially dismissing them as random numbers, John accidentally discovers that the numbers have accurately predicted the dates, death tolls, and locations of every major disaster in the last 50 years; three of the events have not yet occurred. Decoding and discovering that one of the three may lead to the end of the world.Is this a movie that you have to see in the theater? There is one scene that only the big screen can do justice and that was the airplane crash scene, even though it was unrealistic it was great to watch. I just love how Nicolas Cage reacts to it, he goes to "save" the people who are burning and one person passes him screaming in flames and Nic just says "hey!", what exactly was he planning on saying to him? Like "HEY! Just to let you know, you're on fire". I thought the ending was weak and there wasn't enough character development. The story was too serious, while intense, the characters were not real and I felt like the effects got too cheesy at the end. I would say if you're going to see this in the theater, see the matinée, otherwise, just stick with the rental.6/10
Teenage thrillers, it's like the little engine that couldn't, they try so hard to be good and very rarely does one come out that could break that stereotype. Well The Roommate, isn't one of them. The problem with most teenage thrillers is that there are cast with unbelievably good looking people who have mediocre problems and their "perfect" world is unconvinced with something and then they solve it in the most unrealistic way. Not to say that clichés are not fun even if they are not unrealistic. The Roommate does try on some levels and I give much of the credit to Leighton Meester's chilling performance as she's a strange mix between Lindsay Lohan and Norman Bates. But the story and most of the cast makes me glad that I saw The Roommate for free because this was for the most part a waste of time.Sara is starting her freshman year of college. She meets Tracy, Stephen, and Rebecca, her roommate. Initially, the girls begin to bond and Rebecca learns that Sara had an older sister, Emily, who died when Sara was 9. As time goes on, Rebecca's obsession with Sara grows and she tries to drive away anyone who could come between them. Rebecca attacks Tracy in the shower and threatens to kill her unless she stays away from Sara. When Sara's interior design professor kisses her, Rebecca seduces him, while recording their dialogue on a tape recorder to make it look like he was assaulting her. Then Irene goes to a club and sees Rebecca and they kiss in the clubs bathroom and, not knowing that she is Sara's roommate they go to Irenes place. Sara is determined to make sure that nothing stands in the way of her freindship with Sara.I'm wondering if Billy Zane and Frances Fisher who were both in the blockbuster film Titanic are wishing their characters went down with the ship because they were so out of place in this movie. Minka Kelly as Sara was pretty dull as she's a pretty face with no personality. She brought no life to the character that makes you lack any kind of sympathy for her. Not to mention that Sara has such a naïve nature, if people and things were disappearing from my life ever since my roommate came into my life, I would be a little concerned. Then she finds out that her roommate has bipolar and schizophrenia and instead of talking to her about it, the first conclusion she comes to is to just move out and then later kill her? The story despite being incredibly predictable had some extreme potential to be a great movie, given the right cast not just because they're pretty. Speaking of looks, why was Cam Gigandet constantly squinting through this entire movie? I'm thinking he must squint like that a lot in real life because when he reads the scripts for films like Twilight, The Unborn and now The Roommate, he can't see very well and just guesses that the movie is going to be great. The Roommate is a below average thriller with a very anti-climatic ending that left me feeling empty. There was no point to the movie and I would say that if you are interested just take a tip from me when you watch it, try to see it for free on a movie channel.3/10
My mom and I saw the theatrical trailer for Eragon and we were so excited because we love dragon movies and it looked so cool. Not to mention that we love John Malkovich and Jeremy Irons, so this was a film not to miss. We saw it tonite, opening night, and we were a bit confused by the theater's audience, most were children, we thought it would be kind of a Lord of the Rings movie, guess we were wrong. And three things I need to get out before I tell the story: My gay meter went off when I saw the lead actor, the super duper evil dude needed to brush his teeth, and I now want a baby dragon.Basically Eragon is a boy, well, 17 years old, but he is chosen to be a dragon rider when he finds a dragon egg. When he finds out that he has a fate to lead the dragon into battle and win the war against the evil king played by, big surprise, John Malkovich, and he also has to save a princess who is weak one moment and strong the next. But there is one flaw to having this dragon, if the dragon dies, the dragon dies, but if the rider dies, so does the dragon, so they have to keep each other alive.Well, it has it's hits and misses, I would recommend it for the theater because there were some very cool an impressive effects. But I think maybe I was expecting too much because I wasn't too pleased with how short and dismissive the story was and some of the actors seriously needed to drop the cheesy British accents. But Jeremy and the dragon make this movie worth your while, so judge for yourself.6/10
I saw this movie a little over a week ago and I thought it was a pretty cute Disney film about the future of tomorrow. Meet the Robbinsons is one of those animated films where it has humor for the adults and the kids that works well and really clicked, not to mention the animation looked fantastic. While it's still not the best animated film this year, I would agree that it's in the top and wouldn't be surprised if it does get an Oscar nod for best animated film. It really was that good, I was kinda surprised by the average rating on IMDb, I thought the users would get a kick out of this film, but you can't win them all.Lewis is a young genius who has been adopted and cared for by a wonderful family, but he desperately wants to know who his real mother is and find out where she is, so he can find out if she really did want to give him up. But that is put on hold when he makes a brilliant invention, and someone is after it, but he is quickly saved by another boy, Wilber, and he is taken to the future where his invention has been put to great use. But since Wilber wasn't supposed to take Lewis to the future, he lies to his family that Lewis is a friend visiting, but Lewis discovers how wonderful it is to be with this family and wishes to stay. But he may have certain problems when the Bowler Hat Guy desperately wants to get his hands on his invention to get all the credit and money.Meet the Robbinsons is a definite recommendation that I'm sure you'll get a good kick out of. It has great humor, a fun story, and fantastic animation, it's a blast for the whole family, or even for an afternoon with the friends. 2007 over all has been a pretty good start for films, let's hope the great animated flicks keep coming! 8/10
Well, I just finished Final Destination 2 and may I say that it is so cool to find a sequel that is just up to par with the original. Normally, most sequels attack the original and loose it's originality. But Final Destination 2 had a cool story with many more awesome deaths and scary suspenseful scenes. I loved the story and I understand finally why these movies are so well liked.This time there is a girl, Kimberly, is about to go on a road trip with her friends. But right before she gets on the main high way, she has a horrible vision that she is about to get into a horrible accident causing the biggest pile up in car accident history, when she comes too, a cop pulls her over and she gets out of the car telling him that there is going to be a crash. It happens, but her SUV with her friends get tragically hit and killed leaving Kim alive with an officer that was also supposed to be killed. Everyone who was supposed to be killed on that road is dying off one by one, so she looks to the help of a person who has been through this before, Clear.Final Destination 2 was a great sequel and I would highly recommend it for any horror fans. Even though I knew what was going to be the last scene, it was so cool watching it. Although I'm questioning the plot somewhat, because now it seems like almost everyone is going to die, but I guess that's the whole scary point of the story.8/10
"Final Chapter"? Ha! Sure Saw sequels, sure, OK I'll play into your game this time. After 7 years of Saw we supposedly have the last sequel with Saw 3D. I just have a hard time believing that Hollywood give up on this amazing franchise, amazing how many people criticize these movies yet still they make #1 at the box office each time. However I have to admit I was more excited to see this sequel because it marked the return of Cary Elwes back into the story and Sean Patrick Flannery was in the cast who I feel bad that he isn't a bigger star and fell into the horror genre too quickly. Saw 3D doesn't fail on the blood and the gore and is probably the most gruesome of the sequels, however it didn't feel like it should have been which I think it could have been a huge concert. I thought the traps were extremely clever and the story is better, I would say the strongest since the third and to see how all this crazy madness ends was almost bittersweet. But the film left off where I think it could still be picked up again, God help us all. Of course the acting isn't anything grand, but what else would expect? But the first trap makes up for it by making it the ultimate couple's counseling trap and solves problems better than Jerry Springer. It's all craziness from that point on and no one is left to have a choice in living.After witnessing Mark Hoffman survive the reverse bear trap, Jill Tuck goes to Matt Gibson, an internal affairs detective at Hoffman's precinct. She offers to incriminate Hoffman in exchange for police protection and immunity. Hoffman, meanwhile, abducts Bobby Dagen, a self-help guru who achieved fame and fortune by falsely claiming to have survived a Jigsaw trap. As the police investigate the junkyard and search for Dagen, Hoffman sends videos to Gibson, offering cryptic clues to his location and promising to stop the games if Jill is delivered to him. Bobby awakens in an abandoned insane asylum and is informed that his wife Joyce has also been abducted and will die if he does not reach her in time. Dagen navigates his way through the asylum, finding his publicist Nina, his lawyer Suzanne and his close friend Cale all in traps. Despite his efforts to save them, all three are killed. But the plot thickens as we find out that Jigsaw had recruited an old friend who might be able to end all this madness once and for all.Like I said my only disappointment being is that I didn't feel as this was that big of a deal, I wanted sort of a "best of" with all these sequels. We do have some reoccurring characters from the first movie which is cool and we finally find out what happened at the end of the first film. I think the trap for the character Bobby was pretty cool as we know that if this was real life, someone would be trying to cash in or lie about being a survivor of the Jigsaw. I love that his friends he had to save we just unlikable so you couldn't wait to see their deaths. It's a bit disappointing though that we don't officially find out what happens to everyone, there's still a bit of closure and I think this was a pretty satisfying sequel. Definitely if you're looking for cool traps and to finish this insane dark cop drama, I would recommend it. However if you don't like these movies, don't bother seeing them, you know what they are and they don't lie about it. But just wait and see in a year or two, "You thought Jigsaw was done, you thought it was over, but you were wrong, DEAD wrong!" and so on.6/10
Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street is one of the year's most talked about films, it's getting big Oscar buzz and of course, what could be better than Tim Burton taking on this dark musical? With Johnny Depp starring along with beautiful Helena Bonham Carter by his side, this movie just screams terrific. My mom and I saw the movie today and Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street lived beyond to my expectations. Tim Burton hasn't exactly released a classic lately that would be remembered for all time, but Sweeny Todd is sure to make it's way into one of the most memorable films of 2007. Johnny Depp and Helena both have incredible voices, they were so hauntingly beautiful and magical together, it's like these roles were made for them. Along with an equally strong cast as Alan Rickman and Sacha Baron Cohen who were also incredible, Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street is a new memorable musical for years to come.Sweeney Todd has come to London on a mission, a mission for revenge! His wife was taken by the evil judge for his own pleasure's with her and Sweeney's daughter. Now Sweeney's daughter is grown and is being held by Judge Turpin and he has been informed by his lover, Mrs. Lovett that his wife has died. "At last my arm is complete!" Sweeney says as he raises his faithful razor and wishes to kill the vermin of the world as well. Mrs. Lovett comes up with the clever idea to create a tasty meat pie of the victims and makes quite the popular business. But Sweeney is determined to find his daughter who is being wooed by his young friend, Anthony, and kill the judge who has taken everything from him.Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street was so beautifully shot. The reason why I love Tim Burton so much is because he knows how colors and contrasts work in a film. He knew how dark Mrs. Lovetts and Sweeney Todd are, in a picnic scene where everything is supposed to be bright, Sweeney and Lovetts are the only dark figures in the lovely setting. The music is triumphant, the songs were so memorable and almost hypnotic, I felt like was in a real Broadway audience. Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street is one of the best films of the year, I guarantee it, this was a terrific musical that was a bloody good time! Tim Burton is back and he's better than ever with Johnny.10/10
I was kinda interested in seeing The Hitcher, despite not seeing the original, I figured to give the remake a look. I always love a good slasher flick here or there, so I rented the movie, watched it tonite, and I have to say, oh, those kids were so stupid, I just wanted to jump in the movie and smack them! The killer played by Sean Bean, he was good, John Ryder was very creepy and did everything right, as a villain should. Those college kids? Oh, no, don't give them any credit considering how stupid they are, and their perfectly time make out sessions? Not so much.Grace and Jim are two college kids who are heading to see her friends for spring break, when they almost hit a man who's car is broken down on the road, they leave him there. Later at a gas station they encounter him again, he asks for a lift to a motel and Jim agrees, but the trip turns deadly when "John Ryder" pulls a knife on the couple, but they outsmart him and push him out of the car. But somehow along the line, he just keeps bumping into them and easily tries to frame them for murder, putting them on the run from the hitcher who wants them also dead.So basically throughout most of the movie I was saying the line that the killer wanted Jim to say when he pulled the knife on him, "I want to die!". I mean, the girl, Grace, the acting abilities didn't apparently make into the film and the story was just lame. Really, please, don't waste your time, the only thing that was worth watching was John Ryder, many points to Sean Bean, hopefully he'll get blessed with a cast that will actually work with him next time, so he doesn't have to carry the movie.2/10
In the 1980's if there was a defining movie of the generation, I would say that Wall Street is up there. Corporate America was being fully created and it's interesting to see that bit of history before what the economy is today. But in the 80's it was all about being a player and becoming a huge success. Wall Street truly captures the time and is one of Michael Douglas's defining roles as the villainess Gordon Gekko. I saw a clip of Wall Street in my film class a few years ago and for some reason even though it seemed interesting to me, I never got to see it. Thankfully I found Wall Street in my mom's DVD collection and watched it today. It's interesting to see a film like this where you see the original idea developed before a bunch of later movies ripped off the "rise and fall" plot. Wall Street is a powerful movie that shows you the rise of the wealthy and how they still look down on the honest hard working people, so quick to make a quick buck no matter who they hurt.Bud Fox, a junior stockbroker, is desperate to get to the top. He wants to become involved with his hero, Gordon Gekko, a ruthless and legendary Wall Street player, whose values could not conflict more with those of Bud's father Carl, a blue-collar airline maintenance and union president. Bud visits Gekko on his birthday and, granted a brief interview, pitches him stocks, but Gekko is unimpressed. Realizing that Gekko may not do business with him, a desperate Bud provides him some inside information about Bluestar Airlines, which Bud learned in a casual conversation from his father. A dejected Bud returns to his office where Gekko places an order for Bluestar stock, becoming one of Bud's clients. But Bud learns that there might be more to greed than he expected.Michael Douglas delivers a powerful performance as Gekko, the way he plays Fox and uses him was just brutal. Everyone wants to be rich, everyone wants to be successful, but at what cost? Gekko is the ultimate example of someone who will not only buy and sell you, but step over your body to get the cash. His speech of greed was so on key and powerful that I could understand why the people were so quick to go to his side of things. Greed is good, maybe in some ways that's true, it just depends on what you do to succeed. Charlie Sheen pulls in a good performance as well bouncing off of Douglas and you truly feel for his character because we have all been in his shoes. At the glimmer of a rich future, it sounds good to be bad, but when he realizes that he's hurting his own father and business, maybe it's not worth it, he's just Bud Fox.Wall Street is a great movie that was ahead of it's time and still remains a powerful movie to this day. The ultimate betrayals and to show that you can't trust anyone in the business world still holds. Oliver Stone really captured the excitement and downfalls of Wall Street perfectly; you can tell that New York is his city. Wall Street defines the 1980's very well when it was the rise of the get rich quick schemes. I highly recommend this movie; greed is now made for everyone.8/10
You know I was only 2 years old when this movie was released and my parents said they actually let me watch it when I was 4 years old when it was released? My sister always teased them about how they wouldn't let me watch other movies with little violence or just a little nudity, but they'd let me watch Robocop? Well, they took it to heart, I never saw Robocop again, figuring now that I'm 21, maybe I have a right to see it on my own and may I say that this was a true action flick and a definite cliché of all action movies of the 80's, gotta love them.Murphy is a cop, but when he goes to bust a drug and weapon scandal going on, he gets brutally shot that automatically kills him, but OCP, the police organization he works for have been looking for a cop that doesn't rest or can be killed while being on the job, they take Murphy's body and turn him into Robocop! A machine that acts like a cop and performs the duties of one, but he starts to go haywire when he has flashbacks of Murphy's memories and there may be a traitor in the police force! While Robocop is one of the most unrealistic movies you will ever see in your life, it was all in good fun. I have to say that I have never heard a more useless way of the F Word like I did in Robocop, but that was so funny! Not to mention I loved the death out the window! It's not a true 80's action flick without a death out the window. If you are looking for a movie to take seriously, don't watch it, but for good fun, just please get the popcorn and have a good time!7/10
Now, Dude, Where's My Car became kind of a pop culture known fact, I have seen parodies on this movie and of course, no one will ever forget this title. But seeing how Ashton Kutcher and Sean William Scott had the lead roles, this was never a promising film. But still I think I wanted to check it out for myself. You know how you hear nothing but bad reviews on a film, but yet you just have to see for yourself how bad it really is? Well, that's what happened when I rented Dude, Where's My Car? But of course you know the saying: curiosity killed the cat? Well, curiosity killed my brain cells for a few moments. This is just such a ridiculous movie on so many levels where the acting is horrible and the story is just too silly.Jesse and Chester wake up from an apparently wild night from a party that their twin girlfriends threw, one problem, they don't remember a thing. When the girls promise them a surprise for their anniversary, but take it away due to Jesse and Chester's clear view on life as partiers, Jesse and Chester think as long as they give them gifts, they'll get laid. But the gifts are in the car, but one problem, where's the car? It's gone, they go on a quest to look for it, and end up finding out the strange situations they were in that whole night.Dude, Where's My Car is one of those brainless comedies that really had no point in being made, it was just a silly story and a waste of money. Just I know another good movie could have been made with this money. But in some sick way I think this is going to be a cult film down the line in a few more years. It's just a typical stoner flick, nothing special, not to mention it's actors are just not that promising. But we actually had some good cameos, and that's the reason for my kind rating.2/10
I can't tell you how excited I was to see Kick Ass, from the minute I saw the trailer I just couldn't stop laughing. I didn't even know it was a real comic series, I just thought it was a good idea for a satire. How many comic book nerds exist and why haven't they thought about being an actual superhero? That's the basis for Kick Ass. I've been reading a lot of different reviews on this movie and it seems that the main focus that every critic was freaked out about is the extreme violence and foul language, especially coming from an 11 year old girl. I'm warning you in advance, this is a pretty graphic film, but I loved the character Hit Girl. It was a breathe of fresh air that little kids are not always portrayed as little sweeties in film, but I saw this as a fantasy and enjoyed seeing a little girl so charismatic on screen and giving the audience such energy and excitement for the story. I loved all the characters surrounding the story, they seemed to wash out Kick Ass Now there are certainly flaws that come with this film which I will explain in a minute.Dave Lizewski is an average teenager who wonders why nobody in real life has ever decided to become a superhero like the ones in the comic books, so he decides to become a real-life superhero himself, despite having no superpowers or training of any kind. After his first attempt to fight crime Dave is beaten, stabbed, and hit by a car. Undeterred by his earlier setback, and discovering that he has a new found high-tolerance for pain due to his accident, Dave uses two modified night sticks to defend a man from three attackers. A bystander records the event, as well as Dave calling himself "Kick-Ass". The video becomes a YouTube phenomenon, and Dave sets up a MySpace account so people can contact Kick-Ass. During a later mission where he is about to fail again, he is rescued by child costumed vigilante Hit-Girl, who kills his attackers and then leaves with her father, Big Daddy. Together they try to join forces and defeat an evil mobster that Big Daddy has some personal issues with.So there are flaws with the film, one thing I didn't like was how the film kind of steered another direction, it started out as "What if someone decided to be a superhero?" to becoming a clichéd comic book story again. Nerd gets the girl once again, good always triumphing over evil, unbelievable moves coming from the average human being, not to mention how they would be dead or massively injured yet can still move somehow. I would have loved if this had continued into seeing Kick Ass just trying to be a superhero. But speaking of which, I hated the actor that they picked, Aaron Johnson. He was just so dull and I couldn't wait to see someone beat the crap out of him. Nothing about him stood out and he couldn't lift an eyelash to Christopher Mintz-Plasse or Chloë Moretz, they completely stole the movie with their great energy. Even Nicolas Cage, the one actor in the world who ALWAYS puts me to sleep, he was actually good in this movie! I couldn't believe it, it was like he took a caffeine pill and read the script. Christopher Mintz-Plasse has come so far since Superbad, I love this kid and can't wait to see him in future projects, he has great potential. I nearly died laughing at the scene with him and Kick Ass in the car blasting the song Crazy and they started doing their own little dance. Kick Ass is a very fun movie if you are looking for a fun adventure fantasy gore fest, I highly recommend it. I do agree with the critics on one thing, if you're very sensitive to a child behaving in a how do I put this delicately? A raging psychopath then definitely skip it, but personally I had a blast even with a dull lead. All the other characters made it worth the watch. 7/10
Recently I saw a pretty uninteresting movie, All the King's Men, starring Sean Penn, Jude Law, Anthony Hopkins, and Kate Winslet. I wasn't that impressed and I was embarrassed to see that it was actually a remake, I didn't realize there was another classic out there that had won best picture. But when I saw the remake, I was kinda scared to see this version due to the fact that maybe I was just not into the story, but it turned out to not only be a good film, but a great one that had no need to be a remake almost 60 years later.Willie Stark is a crooked lawyer who decides to run for senator, swearing up and down the people that he is just like them and making crazy promises, he gets elected and finds that it's harder than he realized to keep those promises. Things start to fall apart more and more when his son gets into some serious trouble causing bad press, the people are not satisfied with his duties, and his marriage begins to fall apart as well eventually leading up to a horrific ending to his term when he is threatened with impeachment.All the King's Men, the original, is a great movie that I would recommend for the classic lovers. The remake, trust me, it isn't worth watching, but in some sick way I am grateful for it, because I would have never had the opportunity to see this film. We have terrific performances and a great story that anyone could get into, not to mention the Oscar praise it got was well deserved. Sit back and enjoy the movie, the classics are always worth it.8/10
I didn't really know what to expect out of Groundhog Day, to be honest I'm not really a Bill Murray fan. Him carrying a film is not too promising to me, but I'm starting to doubt that since I've been enjoying his films more and more lately. Groundhog Day is brought up in my film books and my mom said that it was a very cute movie that I might wanna check out. When I saw the excellent rating on IMDb, I got even more excited. So I figured I would rent it and give it a shot, though I got a little scared when I read what the plot was about, it seemed a little silly, but when I watched this film this morning, it surprisingly worked! Phil is a weatherman who is sent to Pennsylvania to cover the story for groundhog day with a beautiful woman, Rita who he's had a crush on for a long time. But he's always been too cocky and self centered in her opinion. When the groundhog's shadow shows, there are going to be six more weeks of winter and Phil then experiences something strange. He is reliving February 2 over and over again, but he can remember what happened the day before, so he uses it to his advantage at first. But he starts to realize maybe he could do some good in the world before worrying about getting Rita.Groundhog Day is one of those films that is very charming and the story is really cute. I loved Phil's character, how he changed and transformed himself throughout the film. He went from being a conceited jerk to a lovable guy that wins the audience. It's cheesy, I know, but it's always a plot that wins my heart. The ending was perfect, this movie was just a lot of fun to watch and I would highly recommend it.8/10
Resident Evil: Extinction is now the third installation in the series and so far it's the best! I saw this in the theater last night and I can't tell you when the last time was that I was genuinely excited to see scene after scene. I think Resident Evil: Extinction is my favorite in the series so far, it had great action, horrifying scares, and an actual story that could send chills down your spine. Milla is still kicking butt and she is so awesome in this film, not to mention that her telekinetic powers are growing stronger, so she's becoming a much more advanced fighter against the living dead. Resident Evil: Extinction is everything you could hope for: action, horror, a little romance, science fiction, and drama. The story was terrific because who knows how far we are from screwing up and possibly destroying the world? Scary to think about it.Basically the entire world is now a desert, most of the world's population is dead from the virus that is making them into the living dead. Most of the survivors are using the roads for survival and trying to kill as many of these zombies as they can while looking for food, water, and a safe place to live. Alice comes across a group and stays with them to help them out and she's back with Carlos once again. While it seems they are in the clear and safe, it turns out that Alice is being watched by Umbrella and they want her blood to create super zombies with incredible strength. They've been cloning her to see if they can get some close enough to her capability, but when Alice finds out about this, they may wanna rethink their plan.The only thing I regret about getting into the Resident Evil films is now I have to wait for the next sequel! LOL, it's just like a TV series, you can't wait until the next episode because the previous one had such a great ending. Oh, well, I knew what I was getting into. Resident Evil: Extinction is one heck of an awesome film and I highly recommend that you go see it, especially if you've seen the previous two films. The cast looked like they had the ultimate blast making this film and it's a cool looking film that will keep you entertained from beginning to end.8/10
Good ol' Shrek. Just when you think the series was done, we got another sequel as I like to call it "The Search For More Money". But it's actually a fun series, even though the third Shrek wasn't exactly that good, it's still a fun story to get into. The characters, the love, the romance, the comedy, the animation is all in good fun. So I saw Shrek Forever After last night with decent hope that this would be better than the third, it actually was, it was a good step up. But it seems like this could be more of a TV series now, you know how every Christmas most sit-com's have a "what if It's a Wonderful Life" type of episode? This is just like Shrek Forever After, Shrek has hit his mid life crisis, true, even fairy tale characters hit a mid life crisis. Which is funny because I discussed with my friends about what does happen after the "Happily Ever After"? Did Sleeping Beauty and her prince ever have trouble paying off the castle? Did Snow White and her prince ever disagree on disciplining the kids? Shrek answers those questions finally.Shrek has grown tired of his life being a local celebrity and his overwhelming family and friends, as well as the fact he feels he isn't a "real ogre" anymore. When they arrive at Far, Far Away for the ogre babies' first birthday, an angry mob become fans and asks Shrek to autograph pitch forks and torches, a boy asks him to do his roar, and the three pigs eats the birthday cake. All this makes Shrek roar in frustration and everyone applauds; he smashes a new cake and angrily leaves the castle. Outside, Fiona talks to Shrek about his anger and his wish to be a real ogre again. Fiona tells Shrek he has everything, but doesn't see it, and she heads back inside the castle. Shrek sees Rumpelstiltskin, who has been vowing vengeance against Shrek who he feels took the kingdom away from him. Rumpelstiltskin offers him a day to feel like a real ogre again, in exchange for a day from Shrek's childhood. Shrek agrees and signs the contract. He sees how Far Far Away has been turned into a slum and Fiona, now taking lessons from Xena the Warrior Princess, along with other ogres are to be captured by Rumpelstiltskin, the only way to break this awful curse is the kiss of true love before sunset.Is Shrek worth the ticket price? I would say this is more of a matinée, it's very cute and has some good jokes, but nothing to get excited over. With the 3D price, no, I saw the 2D version and was perfectly happy with it, so you don't have to pay the extra price, there was nothing "eye popping" about the movie. The only thing that makes this movie a step down from the first 2 Shreks is the side characters. In the second Shrek we were introduced to some wonderful side characters like the Fairy God Mother, self centered Prince and my favorite, Puss in Boots. Now it seems like the side characters were just thrown in randomly for sake of them being there. I wished they had a little more to add to the story than they had, like I said it felt more like a TV show vs. a movie. But I have to admit the fat Puss in Boots nearly killed me, I couldn't stop laughing how we see him in a pink bow instead of his typical outfit. Shrek is definitely worth the watch, this was a good movie, maybe made more so for money, but a big step up from the third Shrek.7/10
Well, despite no promising reviews, I did kind of want to see All the King's Men, it had a great cast and over all a good looking story. I figured though to wait for the rent, none of my friends really wanted to see this and I didn't want to see it alone, so I just watched it with my mom this afternoon and I kept dozing off, and it's not because I didn't get a good night's sleep, I tell you! Because my mom even agreed with me that she had a hard time keeping up with the story and wasn't really too interested.Well, it's about this guy, didn't catch his name nore do I think I wanted to, but he is displeased with the way things are being run in his southern state despite some really bad accents. Well, he does get elected and makes incredible promises to the "hick" people, I didn't appreciate getting "hick" screamed at me five million times. But he makes those promises and finds them hard to keep after he is elected and becomes greedy, what a bad bad man.Well, at least that's what I gathered, I swear I made it through 98% of the movie, because a couple times I slightly dozed off. I really don't blame the actors that much, but it was the screen play, the direction, and the story just couldn't keep my interest and I can see why it doesn't have a decent rating on IMDb, the viewers were right, and honestly, I cannot see anyone really loving this film 100%, just trust me on it.2/10
Forgetting Sarah Marshall, definitely the biggest movie that everyone was looking forward to seeing this year. Apatow has had nothing but big success with his comedies: 40-year-old Virgin, Knocked Up, Superbad, Walk Hard, and now Forgetting Sarah Marshall, their next big hit. Also Jason Segal's first major script brought to life, I have to say he's got talent, the reason I say that? These characters... they're likable! Not only are the likable, they are real and people you could relate too! For example, Sarah Marshall's new boyfriend that she broke up with Peter for, yeah, he's a little bit of a moron, but you know what? You could understand why people liked him, he was pretty cool, even the girlfriend, Sarah, yeah, she was a jerk, but so real and also you don't get too mad at her with her reason on why she fell out of love with Peter. Forgetting Sarah Marshall has great laughs and a fun story.Sarah Marshall: hot actress, beautiful, and a fun person, just broke up with her musician boyfriend, Peter. He's just heartbroken and needs to get away for a while, so he goes to Hawaii, but guess what? Sarah is there with her new rock star boyfriend, Aldous Snow, and things are not seeming to go his way. But when he meets Rachel Jenson, the nice and really pretty hotel clerk, they go out and he ends up realizing that maybe this break up wasn't such a big deal after all.Forgetting Sarah Marshall is a funny movie, I guarantee you are going to laugh. I do have one complaint, the male nudity, now it's not that I'm a prude at all, just this was more uncomfortable than funny with Jason exposing all his assets. I don't know, just that type of humor isn't funny with me, male or female, just depending on the joke, but this was more awkward. But I do think this is a fun movie, it has a great story and really makes you laugh and just have a good time with these characters, it's a good recommendation from me.7/10
Perfection is a state of completeness and flawlessness. How many of you have known a perfectionist or you yourself feel the need to be perfect at all times? To the point where it almost drives you or the person insane? But to be honest, I think we've all had those moments of wanting to be perfect. Praised as one of the best films of the year, Darren Aronofsky takes us into the psyche of another character, I would say that this is my favorite film by him. At a young age he has come so far in creating some of cinema's most fascinating characters and stories, he's given us such amazing films. His vision brings out one of the year's best films and one of my new favorites, he and Natalie Portman were meant to work together. I absolutely adore Natalie Portman, but I have been waiting for her to have a role as challenging as Black Swan, her intelligence, grace, beauty and talent shine and I hope she is not only nominated but wins the Oscar for this film. The supporting cast is incredible as well, Mila Kunis, I am just falling in love with her. Proving more and more that she's not just a pretty face but can take on a role that can be dangerous and makes it her own and makes it relatable to the audience. Vincent Cassel is becoming one of my favorite actors, he's so strong and passionate and clearly gave so much into this role as the seductive dance teacher who in a sense is his dancer's prince from Swan Lake.A New York City ballet company is preparing for the production of Swan Lake, which tells the story of an innocent, fragile White Swan who falls in love with a Prince. The ballet company has chosen to cast a newcomer to the dual role of both the White and Black Swan, casting out their top ballerina Beth MacIntyre. Dancer Nina Sayers, extremely dedicated to achieving technical perfection, competes for the part alongside several other young dancers, including Lily. Nina lives with her overbearing and controlling mother, Erica, who was herself a former dancer and is determined to keep Nina's career from getting derailed, as hers did when she got pregnant with Nina. The director, Thomas, is casts Nina. But he claims that she is the perfect White Swan, fragile and innocent, but he simply doesn't believe she has the ability to transform herself into the darkly sensual Black Swan. Nina begins suffering bizarre, and often grisly, hallucinations often involving injuries to herself. However, as soon as the injury appears it will disappear, leaving Nina disoriented and frightened. Nina also begins to feel Lily, a fellow dancer who was cast in a minor role in the production, is determined to take the role from her. Lily is wild, sensual and unruly - ideal casting for the Black Swan. Leroy is becoming increasingly frustrated with Nina, desiring passion and guile from her, and receiving only control and innocence. Tensions are also heating with Nina's mother, who believes the role is too much for Nina. What Nina doesn't realize is that the only thing that is holding her back form being perfect is herself and her lack of making one mistake.Though I found the film predictable at times, I loved the study of Nina's character. Is she crazy and how she became that way is just so tragic. The way her mother behaves around her, almost an incestuous relationship is just horrific, not giving her daughter a chance to grow up and become a woman. Nina is trying so hard to be perfect that she forgets that it's OK to let loose and make a mistake. Her dance is so beyond beautiful, Natalie is one heck of a dancer and you can only imagine some of the pain she endured for this movie. Her dancing tells a story as well, her body language, you can tell she thinks too hard about things. Lily is exactly what Nina always wanted to be but couldn't because of her mother. Lily and Nina's love scene is so beyond intense, you just find yourself loosing your mind with Nina.Black Swan is not only one of the best movies of the year, but one of my favorite films. I can't stop thinking about it and cannot wait until I get the DVD so I can watch it more and study it. It's a darker version of the play Swan Lake and is just so hauntingly beautiful. I'm sure there are flaws, I can think of a couple, however, the film did satisfy me greatly and I can't wait to see it again. Darren has once again given the world another film that is just incredible and will be discussed for years.10/10
I remember seeing this movie when I was a kid and how scary it was to me, especially the scene where Nora sees the old lady ghost for the first time. I haven't seen this movie since I was 6 years old and I remember watching with my mom recently the "100 scariest movies" on BRAVO and this movie was mentioned, I figured since I had the opportunity to see it again, why not? Like I said, it's somewhat lost it's edge, but still 'till this day, House on Haunted Hill will always remain a great movie to watch any stormy night.Five strangers have been invited to a house on Haunted Hill, they are being offered by Vincent price $10,000 each, the catch? They have to spend the night at that house that has been cursed, thinking it's just a good old fashioned haunted party that Vincent's wife is throwing, they go along with it, especially since they could easily have $10,000. But things start to go a little crazy when horrible things happen to the guests, including the sights of ghosts. But questions are brought up when the wife seems pretty up on loosing her millionaire husband.The story was great and the ending was one of the first great twist endings of our time. Again, I could always easily laugh at some scenes now a days, but I think it is because of the fact that I've seen so many horror movies. Because I still remember those horrible nightmares this movie gave me as a kid and that's what makes this movie special to me, it will remain as the greatest sleepover flick! 7/10
Another masterpiece from Disney and Pixar, this year they bring us another family classic for generations to come, Ratatouille. My friend and I saw Ratatouille tonite and we just had a blast watching it, this film was such a pleasure and was so funny and cute. I would say that actually this is Pixar's best work, they have come such a long way from Toy Story, it's incredible. But Ratatouille had amazing animation that was so real, makes you wonder if we'll ever need actors in the future, lol. The story is just so charming and a perfect fit for any family to watch, even just to watch this film on your own, I guarantee you will have fun watching it.Remy is a rat with a special gift, a gift of smell, he uses this gift to cook. He's not just any ordinary cook, but an amazing one at that, but when he gets separated from his family, he is haunted by the most famous chef in the world, he ends up in Paris. Where he finds a restaurant that was once grand and has slipped up when it comes to good food. An ordinary garbage boy messes with a stew in the kitchen, when Remy sees this, he helps him out. Linguini, the garbage boy, accepts Remy and together they create masterpieces and bring the restaurant back up. They must keep it a secret how they create these fantastic foods; but that gets so much harder when people try to find out how he's so talented.Ratatouille is such a charming Disney/Pixar film, the animation is great, and the story is just terrific. The actors voices were so great and fit the characters well. If you are looking for a film to see this summer, Ratatouille is definitely a recommendation, it's good to know that Pixar is going to keep giving us these great animation films that I know will be considered classics for a very long time. Ratatouille is delicious, I loved this film.10/10
Naturally most fans of The Nightmare Before Christmas who saw this trailer were interested in seeing Igor, it was the dark humor we craved around Halloween, not the typical safe humor used in most children's movies. I couldn't wait to see Igor, we have an awesome cast and what seems like a great story that was made for entertainment. So I saw this opening day with great hopes, but I left the theater a little disappointed, while it's a cute movie and is fun to watch at times, this was technically a failure when it comes to what I was expecting. I thought this was going to be funny and just a delight to watch, but it turned out to be predictable, the animation was mediocre and the humor at times was a little off key with the story. I'm not saying this movie was a total disaster, it's cute, it's worth the look, but like I said, the story doesn't add a special touch to make Igor stand out against other animated films.Igor is... well, and Igor, he's been trained specially for this job to serve a master who doesn't have the screws tightened quite right in his head. Igor doesn't want to be an assistant, he wants to be an inventor, and after one of his master's inventions kills him, Igor sees an opportunity to create the most evil invention of all and finally be respected as an inventor, with the help of his two friends/practice inventions, he creates Eva, a female Frankenstein type of monster who's not exactly monstrous. After trying to brain wash her, she gets the wrong message and wants to become an actress, Igor figures a way for her act evil and win the competition, but realizes that maybe having a heart of gold isn't so bad. But he still has one more problem, another inventor who is trying to take over will do anything to get ahold of Eva and rule the city.This movie is worth the look, I'd just say if you're going to go to the theater for it, I'd recommend a matinée, it's fun for your kids and I will say that there are some fun laughs and despite the story's predictability, it's still enjoyable. You really enjoy the comic relief from the two friends that Igor has, a cat who is immortal and a brain who isn't the smartest tool in the box, but they had great chemistry and gave the scenes some relief on the humor. I did like the movie, but it just didn't stand out to me, seeing it once was enough, I was really pulling for this movie, we need a new fun Halloween movie, but unfortunately Igor doesn't cut the cake.6/10
Due to the very un-needed remake, Clash of the Titans, it brought back so many memories. I used to watch Clash of the Titans all of the time when I was a kid, I just adored this film, it was one of my favorites. But for some reason, I hadn't seen the movie for years, I think I kind of just forgot about it. Once again though during "remake mania" it brought back those good times and I just had to watch Clash of the Titans once again. I don't know how to say this other than just how amazing it is to be so easily amused when you're a kid. I'm not putting this movie down because it is a fun adventure movie and has this charm about it, but I remember when I was a kid and these were just the huge break through effects. I can't help but laugh at them now and how dated they are. Also the acting was a bit over the top cheesy, but once again it's one of those fantasy films from the days where the lines were delivered with "soap operatic" tones. I just honestly cannot hate this film, even if it is dated and silly, the story is still so much fun how could you not get into it? It kept the tension high and also creates a lot of excitement.Calibos, is a handsome young man destined to marry Princess Andromeda, the daughter of Queen Cassiopeia and heir to the rich city of Joppa. The God, Zeus transforms Calibos into a satyr-like creature who is subsequently shunned and forced to live as an outcast in the swamps and marshes. Thetis, furious at her son's fate, vows that if Calibos cannot marry Andromeda, no other man will, either. Equally infuriated by Zeus's total devotion for his own son, Thetis transports Perseus from Seriphos to Joppa. Perseus, befriended by Ammon, learns of Andromeda and wishes to marry her. Armed with gifts from the gods, he cuts off the hand of Calibos and releases the curse that was placed upon Andromeda. At the temple to Thetis, Calibos prays to his mother Thetis to take vengeance on Perseus. At the wedding, the statue of Thetis collapses and its head comes to life, demanding Andromeda as a virgin sacrifice to the Kraken in thirty days, or else Joppa will be destroyed. Perseus seeks a way to defeat the Kraken, and must go on a long and dangerous journey to figure a way to save his love and city.Since I shouldn't even mention the remake in this review, all I have to say is that this is better than the new one still. It still managed to keep all the excitement and adventure in less than 2 hours and kept it easy on the eyes. The only sad thing about this movie is that it does need to be updated, the effects are a bit silly. I love how Perseus gets his flying horse and miraculously knows how to ride it in less than a minute. Now granted, he is the son of Zeus, so I'll give him the benefit of the doubt, but man, I guess half-Gods defy wind as well because when he is riding the horse as it flies in the air, his hair only blows a little bit in the background as he keeps perfect balance. Also I loved seeing Zeus as a little tiny crumb in his sea, bad green screen effect. But one thing that I will always give this film credit for, it still gives me the chills. With the three blind witches that Perseus must see to find out how to destroy the Kraken, they were very creepy. Also, no one will ever top that Medusa, quick, sly, strong and tough, this is the girl that will take your breath away, sadly I'm not kidding. But as long as you can get past silly effects and soap opera acting, I think you'll still enjoy this film. It's a great fantasy that I have to admit I will forever have a place in my heart for.7/10
OK, as you know if you are a fan of my reviews at all, you know my hatred for romantic comedies. The chick flick comedies mainly since they are the most insulting trash towards women and film in general. But every once in a while we do get a good romantic comedy, but as I had a feeling Did you hear about the Morgans was going to be no exception. But my boyfriend, ironic I know, wanted to see this, he likes a stupid romantic comedy every once in a while, so I thought it'd be all good to rent it and just give it a shot. But even he agreed that once again this was another miss when it comes to a romantic comedy. The characters are the problem, oh, my gosh, were these not the most unlikable characters in the world? Sarah Jessica Parker and Hugh Grant are both likable actors, but their characters have absolutely no chemistry and are so dull and obnoxious as well. If I had to hear Sarah Jessica Parker's character say one more time about how great New York is, I was ready to hang myself. Hugh Grant's character is a total chump and doesn't act like a normal male at all. This is a pathetic attempt to make some cash and was a quick paycheck for these actors.A successful Manhattan couple, real estate agent Meryl Morgan and lawyer Paul Morgan are separated because of Paul's infidelity. But they are thrust together when they witness a murder and become targets of a contract killer. Federal marshalls whisk away the Morgans from their beloved New York to tiny Ray, Wyoming, where they are temporarily put in the custody of the Wheelers, a married couple who are U.S. Marshals. They use the assumed names of Meryl and Paul Foster, who are visiting their cousins, the Wheelers. The killer, meanwhile, tries to track them down. While adjusting to Ray, Paul tries rekindling their marriage. Meanwhile, in New York, the killer is still after them and has found out where they are through Meryl's assistant.Sadly these characters were just awful and you actually root for the killer that is after them vs. the leads. There's a scene that got a giggle in the trailer with Hugh Grant and a grizzly bear and how he has to get away from the bear, but when it comes in the movie, it's so weird and silent. The bear is just sitting there doing nothing and Hugh Grant keeps making the scene more and more uncomfortable. Also one thing I hated was how it was so "country vs. city", I'm a city gal, as you can see I live in Chicago, I've been to the country before a billion times. I had a grandfather in Tennessee, I have an ex who's family I met in Idaho, so I know how different the city and country are, but never in a million years did I or the people I visit at these locations really bring up a lot how different it is. Sarah Jessica Parker kept saying a gazillion times how great New York is and how much she missed it, it was obnoxious, no one said that the witness protection was permanent she can't handle a month or so in the country? Of course the movie is predictable as the soon to be divorced couple all of a sudden love each other again; just please don't let me go on about this movie, it's just bad. Please for the love of God Hollywood, stop with the friggin' awful romantic comedies, they're just so bad and pathetic. They're going from bad to worse, this was painful.1/10
I'm a very proud American, I love this country, we have a lot of freedom, great food, kind people, and we stick together in a time of need, except for one thing, when it comes to health and debt, our country isn't the brightest bulb in the tanning bed. Health care in our country is horrible, Michael Moore didn't need to point that out, except for those select few that health insurance came pretty easily to them. While I do agree with Michael Moore's documentary, he does do a biased opinion. America does have the medicine and every machine possible to help run tests, the only problem is that doctors have now become more about money than helping people, insurance denials take away life saving tests and operations, among with other major flaws like what the insurance company can handle and pay for. Michael Moore takes this documentary to point out how hard it is in America and how scary it is to get sick if you have no health insurance.America is one of the lowest countries in the world when it comes to health, other countries that we have labeled as "third world" are extremely kind and have free or cheaper health care where the doctors seem to really care about their patients. In this documentary we meet several people who either have or don't have health insurance and what has effected their lives with their failing health. Including a very sad story about 9/11 volunteers who America seemed to forget about and their health is now deteriorating because they were not on the pay roll like the fire fighters or policemen, so they've been refused treatment.Sicko does hit home even more, a couple years ago I was without insurance, it was scary, I told my mom if I got into a car accident, my car would be OK, but what about me? Even now my insurance has so many catches and doesn't cover everything, but there is only so much you can do in life. While I think that Moore does forget about certain pro's of American Health Care, he does make his point across with how other countries seem to really care about each other. I did have a customer at my work who was visiting from Canada, I commented how great it must be to have free health care and she said that they do pay it in taxes, but I feel like at least they're still covered, it's a different kind of insurance and I really hope that America will change it's health care system. Unfortunately, I don't think it will happen any time soon, but this documentary will open eyes.10/10
A few weeks ago, I picked up the Mad Max 2 and Mad Max 3 combo for ten bucks, I figured since I was a fan of Mel Gibson, why not see the movies that put him on the map? So when I saw the first Mad Max, I was really impressed, what they had to work with, they created a good low budget action film. Mad Max 2 had nothing but awesome action sequences and a cool rebel that was charismatic, strong, handsome, and just so awesome that could always be known to us as Mad Max. Now we have Mad Max Beyond Thunderdome, I have to say while the action sequences are pretty good, I know why not too many enjoy this sequel, it definitely took a strange turn from the series. But it was still kind of an interesting story, with Tina Turner, that was a strange role for her to take on.Mad Max has changed a little bit since his day as the hero, he comes to a land where all his possessions have been taken away from him. He is forced to join a group where they beat each other to the death in the Thunderdome. But when Mad Max doesn't like the rules and refuses to follow them, he's in big trouble. He makes a run for it, but the gang is now after him and will make sure that he pays for this love for humanity. He is pushed into the desert where he encounters these children, he promises to take them to a land that they were heading for called Tomorrow Morrow Land, clever title, huh? But together they head to the world that seems better without being caught by Aunt Entity.Mad Max Thunderdome is over all entertaining, I wouldn't say that this is a bad film. I think just compared to the other two Mad Max films, this seemed a bit flawed. It was a little bit of a different story to take on, but the one thing that is for sure, is any action lover will be satisfied. Tina Turner was actually pretty decent as Aunt Entity, it was very strange to see her take on the role, especially with those earrings she had to wear, lol. But Mel Gibson and she both were cool to watch, I would recommend this if you are a fan of the original Mad Max films, just to complete the series.5/10
Fast Times at Ridgemont High is one of those films, even if it was made before you were born, you have heard of it in some way. It is so referenced to society and some of it's scenes are legendary. I was watching I love the 80's and they showed some pretty funny clips, so it was always on my mind to give this movie a look. I finally remembered to rent it at Hollywood Video and watched it last night. Although I'm not sure I laughed as much as others would have, I still liked this film for some reason. Just because I think in one way or another you could relate to it and remember how hard it was being a teenager.We have Stacey and Linda, two hot young high school students who are very sex deprived and look to make this year their best ever. Mike who is chasing after Stacy and looking to have a meaningful relationship with her. Brad, a senior who is looking to make his last year the best but plans turn out to be different when everything turns on him. Then of course we have Jeff Spacolli, the stoner surfer dude who manages to finally let a teacher, Mr. Hand, have his own.Fast Times at Ridgemont High is a classic teen comedy that I would highly recommend. It is all in good fun and was just so much fun to watch. The cast looked like they had so much fun and the movie just looked like a blast to make. It's understandable on why this film's legacy lives on, this was the movie to watch before American Pie and it's always a joy to stick to the original, trust me. Even though this film had it's stupid moments, I gotta admit I couldn't help but laugh at Spacolli's line "What's that noise?"..."It's my skull!", we're proud of you, Sean.7/10
8 1/2 is one of the most hailed movies of all time, especially in foreign films, I read in a magazine that this was the number one ranked Italian film. So I decided to rent it and see what it was about, I had no idea what the story was about, but if it's ranked so high on the top 250, why not check it out? So I watched it yesterday and this was one of the strangest movies I have ever seen, I almost felt like I was trippin' with this movie. I know that sounds bad, but I just felt like I was on such a trip with 8 1/2, the camera shots, the characters, the costumes, the story, it was just crazy. I felt like I was getting pulled in so many directions and I wasn't sure where I was going. The story is a little hard to follow, but I watched it again, and from what I understand, I'll try to explain.Guido is a writer/director who is constantly looking for new ideas for his new film. He goes into these strange fantasies of new characters, flying, new situations, and different colors or looks. But the actors that he works with are always looking for the bigger idea, they want something better. But after thinking back to his past, he may just come up with the best idea for a film.At least that's what I interpreted from 8 1/2, this was seriously one strange movie. But the thing that stands out to me is this was a film that stood out very much for it's time, it was one of the first films that made people stop and seriously think about what they saw. It was one of the first major artistic films that had incredible camera shots and interesting characters, before the fancy effects of CGI, we had 8 1/2. 8 1/2 is a good movie, it's something you'd really have to be in a mood for though and you may have to watch it a couple times, but it's definitely worth it if you want a classic.8/10
I recently saw the trailer for We Own The Night a couple weeks ago, it was a terrific one at that, we also had this incredible cast, so it seemed like a movie not to miss. I saw it this afternoon and We Own the Night lived up to my expectations. This is one of the best films of 2007, I will not be surprised if it's mentioned at the Oscars. I know a lot of people are comparing this to The Departed, which I thought was kind of ridiculous, because despite it's similar situations in some aspects, but it's also a different plot. I mean, if we compared every movie simply because it has similar situations, we would never enjoy any movies. It's brilliantly written and very well acted. The story was very interesting and definitely keeps your attention.Bobby is a drug addict/seller who is very popular at his club, he has many connections and a very beautiful girlfriend, Amanda. His family is quite opposite of his life, his brother, Joesph, and his father, Burt are fine policemen and rade in on his club to collect the Russian mafia who are in a major agreement of intense drugs. Bobby is angry at his family for interfering with his life; but when Joesph is shot by a member of the Russian mafia, things change. Bobby goes under cover to get them and now must go into witness protection after they are arrested. But things get more and more intense when one of the members escape and are after his head.We Own the Night is an incredible film that I highly recommend that you see. Like I said, I wouldn't be surprised if this is a nomination for the Oscars. Mark and Joaquin were terrific together and they also produced this film together! Our boys have come a long way, but I'm sure that this is not the end for them. We Own the Night is high action, drama, and a great mob movie. I definitely recommend it, this film keeps you on the edge of your seat and the ending is a tear jerker. Eva brought in a a surprising good performance along with Robert, but it is Mark and Joaquin that steal the show.10/10
Kate Winslet, I absolutely adore her, she's my favorite actress of all time. I still can't believe that she hadn't won an Oscar, her first nomination was in 1995 with Sense and Sensibility. Finally after 14 long years, she finally won the coveted award with the movie The Reader. I finally was able to see this movie the other day and it blew me away, I'm still debating if this really was my favorite Kate Winslet performance, but once again with a strong cast telling a powerful story, The Reader was definitely one of the best films out of 2008. So many holocaust films have been made, it's hard to make another that stands out, but we really haven't had a story where the Nazi guards were on trial. A lot of people debate if this movie is trying too hard to push sympathy on Kate Winslet's character, but my love for this film is to just show that they were human as well, hard to believe, but that our mothers, sisters, friends, whoever could have done something so shameful.Michael Berg in 1995 Berlin watches an S-Bahn pass by, flashing back to a tram in 1958 Neustadt. A teenage Michael gets off because he is feeling sick and wanders around the streets afterwards, finally pausing in the entryway of a nearby apartment building where he vomits. Hanna Schmitz, the tram conductor, comes in and assists him in returning home. The 36 year old Hanna seduces and begins an affair with the 15 year old boy. During their liaisons, at her apartment, he reads to her literary works he is studying. After a bicycling trip, Hanna learns she is being promoted to a clerical job at the tram company. She abruptly moves without leaving a trace. The adult Michael, a lawyer, at Heidelberg University law school in 1966. As part of a special seminar taught by Professor Rohl, a camp survivor, he observes a trial of several women who were accused of letting 300 Jewish women die in a burning church when they were SS guards on the death march following the 1944 evacuation of Auschwitz. Hanna is one of the defendants. Stunned, Michael visits a former camp himself. The trial divides the seminar, with one student angrily saying there is nothing to be learned from it other than that evil acts occurred and that the older generation of Germans should kill themselves for their failure to act then. But Michael is conflicted on what to do, if to speak out on Hannah's behalf on some of her innocence in the murders or keep quiet. This is one of the most powerful movies I have ever seen, it was so incredible and just heart breaking. One of the things I respected about the film was the way they handled the awkward "love story" between Michael and Hannah, she's older, he's younger, but it's not even a perverted thing, so strange to say that. I don't know how to put it exactly, but their connection was real and in some sense they both needed each other. If you have the chance to see this movie, I seriously suggest that you take it, the powerful performances really make this film captivating. The story is so heart wrenching and painful, but was told so well. Kate now finally has the award she's deserved for so long and pulls in a terrific performance with The Reader.10/10
Jim Carrey, a man who has delivered some of the most memorable comedies of the 90's: Ace Ventura, Liar Liar, Dumb and Dumber, and the Mask. He used to be one of the funniest men alive, now it's just kind of odd, he's gone into the drama genre in films, which is good, he's actually proved to be a good actor. But with the comedy, it's like he was once the person who you would be first to invite to the party because he was so funny, now he's the guy who invites himself to the party and laughs at his own jokes. I think because he's older it's just awkward watching him trying so hard to make people laugh. Not that Yes Man is a bad film, it's just a different version of Liar Liar, yet he's not even hypnotized into saying yes to everything, he just does so because he thinks it'll make his life better. So instead of feeling bad for him you just go "ummm, are you an idiot?". I don't wanna know if a man hit on him if he had to say yes to that too.Los Angeles bank employee Carl Allen has become withdrawn and depressed since his divorce from ex-wife Stephanie. Routinely ignoring his friends, he has grown used to spending his spare time watching DVDs alone in his apartment. His outlook on life has become inherently negative. But when a friend persuades him to attend the "Yes!" self-improvement seminar, motivational guru Terrence Bundley publicly browbeats him into making a covenant with himself. Carl reluctantly promises to stop being a "No Man" and vows to answer "Yes!" to every opportunity, request or invitation that presents itself thereafter. After the seminar he meets Allison, an eccentric young woman who is refueling her scooter. After this experience, Carl adopts a positive mentality and seizes every opportunity that comes his way. He takes flying lessons, attends Korean language classes, learns to play the guitar, and even joins a Persian dating website. Saying "yes" constantly works to Carl's advantage. As their relationship blossoms, Carl and Allison meet at the airport for a spontaneous weekend excursion. But while checking in for the flight, Carl is detained by FBI agents, who have profiled him as potential terrorist because he has taken flying lessons, studied Korean, approved a loan to a fertilizer company, met an Iranian mail-order bride, and bought plane tickets at the last minute. Then Allison begins to doubt whether his commitment to her was ever sincere.Yes Man is over all a good comedy, it has a few good laughs here and there. I think the plot just needed a bit of work, because like I said before it's just odd that he isn't hypnotized into saying yes constantly, he just does so because someone told him to do it. Yeah, it brought him to some great moments in his life, but he ordered a bride? He's just a little bit crazy. But over all I'd have to say that this movie is more of a rental vs. a theater experience. Jim Carrey can still make you laugh, but not the same as he used to, it's just time to grow up, how long can you make those stupid faces for without looking ridicules being a grown man? Well, the money helps I guess.6/10
That's it! I give up! I surrender! White flag! My friends want to see the new Harry Potter that is about to be released this summer, The Order of Phoenix, but they looked at my like I just lost my head when I told them I never saw the Harry Potter films. They just said I've seen every movie yet I never saw Harry Potter? Well, I never saw the point since I don't read the books or wasn't interested in the films, it looked like typical kid's stuff to me. But my friends said they would not take me to see the movie until I've seen the films, it's now that I realize I got myself into trouble since these movies are all 2+ hours each. I just finished the first one a couple days ago.Harry Potter lives with an extremely cruel family, but there is something different about him, he can talk to snakes and make things appear and disappear. Well, he receives a letter, he's a wizard! Not just any wizard, he is the only wizard ever to survive the wrath of Voldemort, the most wicked wizard. Harry goes to a magical school, Hogwarts, where he learns the truth of his heroic parents and meets two other wizards, Ron and Hermione who soon become his best friends and they discover the power of the sorcerer's stone and what might happen if it's put into the wrong hands.Harry Potter I have to admit is off to a good start with me, it had wonderful and magical effects that anyone could enjoy. The actors were just so perfectly cast, Maggie Smith, Alan Rickman, John Cleese, we have some of England's most brilliant actors. It's a well made film, now I still haven't read the books, so I can't base this film on a comparison. Even if I did, this is the movie and the movie itself is a magical and enchanting experience. Well, I'm onto The Chamber of Secrets, wish me luck.7/10
I tried my best to stay as far away from The Lake House as possible, it looked incredibly corny and like another stupid love story that would just make me gag...*the notebook*. Not to mention Keanu Reeves doesn't NORMALLY work well in a romance movie, he usually seems off cue or doesn't seem that interested. But I have to say for two actors who didn't see much of each other in front of the camera(only 3 scenes), these two actors had more chemistry than I have seen in a long time.Alex is an architect who moves in a lake house, he gets a letter from the "previous owner", Kate. She tells him to forward any of her left over mail to her place, but there is a problem, her place in his time hasn't been built yet, they soon figure out that they are two years away from each other. But they continue to write letters to each other and end up falling in love with one another.I'm so glad that I took a chance on renting this movie, it was a free rental for the club I joined at Hollywood Video, and I figured to just give this movie a shot and it turned into one of the better surprises in a long time for me. I would highly recommend The Lake House, it doesn't go overboard with the corny cliché's, Keanu and Sandra had great chemistry and over all, I'd just say that this is a very good movie.8/10
My friend and I were so excited to see this movie when we saw the trailer to License to Wed, it looked like a fun comedy. But when we heard all the bad reviews, we were a bit hesitant, but we figured that we still wanted to see it and why not? I don't get all the horrible reviews on IMDb, yeah, there were a few things wrong with the movie, but it seemed like nobody really wanted to enjoy this film. I'm not saying this to offend anyone, I just don't get how you could not laugh at least once in this film when it was just a cute romantic comedy that's better than most.Sadie and Ben are one happy couple, after only six months they feel that they are ready to tie the knot and get married. But Sadie's wishes are to be married in the church her parents got married in and their family minister, Frank. Frank isn't going to give this couple an easy time though, he'll test them from Heaven to Hell to see if they are really ready for marriage and slowly the realize what might be wrong and different in their relationship.Now, I admit that some of the situations were predictable and unbelievable, but I think if you let go and just have fun, you'll find yourself laughing. This movie was all in good fun; I loved the scene where they have to find out what having kids was like. Those little mechanical babies were so ugly and scary, but so funny! I expected a fun and cute movie and that's what I got with License to Wed, so don't trust the IMDb reviews, just go and have fun! 6/10
From the moment I saw the trailer for Quarantine, I knew I had to see this movie, I just love a good scare, especially around Halloween time. Well, I watched the first show this morning of Quarantine, I have to say, this a fun horror flick, but you know what? It's a little disappointing, it reminded me a little bit of The Blair Witch Project, the whole movie is alright, then the ending is getting so great, but then it goes to credits, you get all hyped up and can't breathe, then credits. Now it's much better than Blair Witch, but a step below Cloverfield, I did like the feel of the film, very much like a documentary and it did keep me interested. But it did get predictable; I have to say though that I felt like I was almost forced not to like this film with all the trash talk simply because it's a remake. Basically this film didn't stand a chance with most viewers, so as usual, I will give you the most honest comment I can write.Angela Vidal is a reporter who is doing a special on night shift jobs, the firemen, things seem pretty boring and that she won't get much of a story. But then the alarm rings, her and several firemen go down to a building where there are reports of a old woman screaming and is causing violence. The firemen, police, and Angela with her camera man go in to see what seems like a harmless but shook up woman, but as they turn the light on, we see her eyes are black and there is blood all over her dress and she attacks! Slowly all the residents and workers are attacked as the building has been quarantined and no one is going to be let out... alive.Now, Quarantine is worth the theater experience, don't get me wrong, I did enjoy a lot of the movie. I just felt like I have seen this before so the story could have been a little more scary, but it is intense and freaky. You'll get your scares, especially the end, I kind of wish now that they did most of the film in night vision because it made it feel more intense and real, not to mention it was just almost too scary to watch. I would recommend it for a couple good scares, seeing a scary movie in the theater is much more than seeing it at home, you get a more scared feeling in a place that's unfamiliar, so that's why I say go for the theater experience. This film was decent, it's just a little disappointing that the most intense and scary scene was the ending one, but oh, well, that's show business.6/10
When I was reading what was considered to be the best films of 2007, Lars and the Real Girl came up quite a few times, I wasn't sure since I had never heard of it before. But I decided to rent it and see what it was about, I watched the film last night and this was not only the most charming film I've seen, but for me it was one of the saddest. I think it just touched me how much this town stuck together to help one friend and get him back from a "delusion", just unfortunately, it was semi-unrealistic at times, and I think that's what made me very sad, not to mention how lonely a person can get, I think we forget that sometimes. But the script was just so wonderful and Lars was just this character who actually didn't really seem crazy, like this dummy fantasy was something that made him come out of his shell, this story was just so beautiful.Lars is a shy and quiet man who just keeps to himself all the time, everyone always begs him to join the crowd, but he always backs down. But when his co-worker shows him a website with a "create your own sex doll", Lars gets one, but not exactly for the purpose of sex, more like it's his girlfriend. Not like he's ashamed, he thinks she's real, her name is Bianca, and he even asks his brother and sister in law to keep Bianca in their house. Instead of hospitalizing Lars, the town pulls together and helps Lars by treating Bianca like a real person. Lars starts to come out of his shell and then even notices a girl, Margo, but he realizes that maybe Bianca isn't everything he's wanted in life.Lars and the Real Girl is seriously one of the sweetest films ever. Everything about this film was just wonderful and it was such a pleasure to watch. To be honest I am surprised that Ryan Gosling didn't get an Oscar nomination for Lars, he is one of the most touching characters in film that I've seen in a while. His scene with Bianca, the last one where he kisses her, there are no words, but it was such a touching scene, I turned into such a girl(I am a girl, but I don't get all sappy normally), I cried so hard, it was just a beautiful scene. I would highly recommend Lars and the Real Girl, it's a great movie, has terrific performances, and just an original and lovely script.10/10
I just saw Stranger Than Fiction tonite with my friends, let's face it, as a proud Chicago gal, I had to see it. Not to mention that this movie is the reason my best friend got to meet Dustin Hoffman and Will Ferrell since she attends The University of Illinois in Chicago. She was so excited to see Will, but didn't really know who Dustin was, sigh! I know! But, anyways, it looked like an interesting concept and a unique story.It's about this man, Harold, normal life and a lonely IRS agent who is auditing a young woman who he also has a major crush on. But things are becoming strange when he finds himself listening to a British woman's voice narrating his life. The problem is that he just heard that he is going to die and wants to learn how he could prevent it from happening. Harold meets this author who is a nervous smoking and depressing wreck, when she learns that her character is real, she doesn't know how to end her book.While, it's well acted well and the story was really interesting, this movie just didn't grab me. It had some funny moments and some sad one's, then I remember being annoyed with the talking and making out teens in the back who for some reason wouldn't shut up. Sorry, had to get that out. But back to the movie, it's something I didn't mind seeing, but probably won't see again, I'm not quite sure if I agree with the rating, but that's cool.6/10
After the overwhelming nominations at the Oscars that Pans Laberyth got, I have to say that I was definitely fascinated with this film and wanted to see what it was about. When it went to rental, I couldn't help but notice the R-Rating, which seemed a little odd. But I now know why, this was definitely one of the darkest fantasy films I have ever seen. That's why I said Ying and Yang, it seemed like it had a very dark side, but also a slightly brighter one where this girl travels into her own fantasy world where she is a princess. This film had fascinating characters, a very interesting story, and was beautifully shot, so I can see where it stands on the top 250 and got the Oscar nods it got.Ofelia, a little girl, is going with her pregnant mother to a city in Spain, where there is a huge war going on. They are traveling to see the very sadistic and cruel captain of the army, the mother has married him and he is now Ofelia's new father. But Ofelia comes into a world of her own when a fairy brings her to a Labyerth in the garden where she meets a faun and he tells her that he is her servant, and he can help her bring back her thrown to the kingdom by doing a few simple tasks, well, not that simple. But it makes it all the more difficult with the world outside, where her father is murdering others and doesn't care about her mother, only the son she carries inside her.This was truly an interesting film, in some ways it was a breath of fresh air due to the fact that we don't really have any films like this any more. The cast, the set, the story, the language was so beautiful, I was very impressed. I would recommend this film, not so much to just anyone, it takes a certain type of person I think to fully understand what this film and story is, not judging, just saying I can already name a few people I know who wouldn't enjoy this movie because they wouldn't understand it. But if you are a fan of film, the art of it, I think you'll enjoy this masterpiece.9/10
I was very much looking forward to seeing Perfect Stranger, in fact I wanted to see it in the theater, but one my friends saw it and said it's more of a rental then the typical 10 dollar movie ticket price. So I waited and rented it yesterday, I watched it tonite and I am severely disappointed. I mean it's so bad that I just almost hanged myself in my room, it just had the most unoriginal story that I could imagine. Not to mention it was such a waste of good actors. Now I like Halle Barry, and of course, I'm a huge fan of Bruce Willis, so the combo seemed good enough for me and the story seemed sexy and exciting. But it turns out to be an unoriginal dud that does not excite people or keeps them guessing because the story just bangs your head around.Ro is a writer who's ex best friend is murdered, before the murder her best friend tells her about an affair she had with Harrison Hill, a big boss executive at an ad agency and how he wanted to end the affair, but she wanted to continue the relationship or she'd go to his wife. Ro decides to go undercover and discover Hill's dark secrets along with the help of her perverted friend, Miles. Then there are other little stories throughout the film that don't seem that relevant, so I won't bother mentioning.I should have known that when I read the back of the cover's reviews "Halle Berry is sexy and steams up the screen", what did that have to do with the movie? It's like that was the only nice thing the critic had to say about Perfect Stranger. I highly recommend that you stay away from this film, I've lost total hope now for Berry, she hasn't made smart choices since Monster's Ball or X-Men. But at least Bruce still has his chance to pull himself back up, just trust me when I say that this is a very bad film.1/10
I first saw the trailer for Enchanted in the spring, from the moment it ended, I knew this was a movie that I wanted to see. I finally saw it today and it's everything that I hoped for and more. It was nice to finally see a Disney movie that wasn't computer animated, the beginning was almost a forgotten memory of the old fashion animation that I miss so much. But Enchanted is without a doubt one of the most fun films of the year and so perfect for the whole family. I though the plot was so extremely clever, what if the cartoons with the fairytale stories met into today's world? Especially in New York City? The cast just looked like they had the ultimate blast making this movie and really brought it to life. They each held their own and were a perfect choice for the comedic role they had to play. Enchanted is a clever twist on the classic fairy tale.Giselle has just met the prince of her dreams, he's saved her from a troll and asked for her hand in marriage, everything seems to be going good for them. But Prince Edward's step mother has other plans in mind when she doesn't want to give up her crown and let Giselle take it. So she sends Giselle to another world, one where there is no "happily ever after", cut to New York City 2007. She's in human form and needs to get back to her land, she meets a man Robert and his daughter, Morgan, she stays with them and ends up falling for Robert. Just in time since Prince Edward throws himself to the other dimension to save her, but it's definitely a life changing experience for both of them, especially when the queen arrives to take care of Giselle herself.Enchanted is one of the year's best movies and one of Disney's best, I guarantee it'll be a true classic down the line. The whole story was charming as well as funny and just a great time to watch, I don't know if I could pick a favorite part, there were so many to choose from, but I think the part where the prince first arrives to New York, how determined he is, he even takes on the city bus because he thinks it's a beast. For me, I think James Mardson stole the film as Prince Edward, he just played it off so perfectly and was such a pleasure to watch on the screen. Enchanted is one of the year's best films, I would highly recommend it for you or the family, it's a definite treasure of 2007.10/10
Yes, it's true, I have never seen Speed until today. I was only 9 when it was released and my parents never bought or rented it, so I was just thinking of the movie when I saw it on I love the 90's on VH1 and rented it along with the sequel. I have to say that normally a Keanu Reeves movie is only sometimes enjoyable to watch, but this was a very exciting action movie, in fact one of the best I've seen. I know that it was very over the top and a little silly, but it was just so much fun to watch.Keanu plays Jack, a police officer who has just foiled another crime by EVIL mastermind Dennis Hopper. When Dennis gets very upset, he plants a bomb on a bus, the only way to prevent it from going off is to keep the bus going 50 miles an hour or above. Jack jumps onto the bus and tries to explain, but a criminal thinks he is after him so he pulls out his gun and accidentally shoots the bus driver leaving the driving to a passenger, Annie. They must go on a driving spree to make sure that everyone can stay alive with trying to figure out a way off the bus.Speed is a very great action movie that everyone needs to see, it's just one of those movies that really gets you excited and never lets you go. Keanu and Sandra did a terrific job and had great chemistry, despite their cheesy over the top kiss, it was definitely needed to complete the cliché action genre. I think you'll love this movie if you just like films in general. So grab the popcorn and enjoy the ride, it's a good one! 8/10
I remember several years ago in my film appreciation class, we were learning about the 50's, our professor had mentioned how many sci-fi films were made with Russian villain undertones as well as the cold war. We watched some of The Day the Earth Stood Still and this film just jumped at me, it was so different than any other film I had seen. I thought it was going to be so cheesy and lame since it was a 50's film, but after watching a little bit of it, I didn't realize the strong message it held. I remember in Terminator 2 there was a line that I still hold true to this day "It's in your nature to destroy yourselves", that maybe it's not all technology that will destroy us, but we are our own worst enemies. The Day the Earth Stood was before The Terminator, just like Metropolis was before this film, but these are the best stories and it's like watching a history lesson on film about the time and feel of the 50's.An alien spaceship has landed in Washington, D.C., but it's not what you think with the "take us to your leader" type of thing, rather a human like alien comes out offering input on what is going on in the universe, but he is immediately attacked by the humans and taken hostage. His name is Klaatu, he tries to explain several times that he's not here to hurt anyone, but the humans don't trust him. He escapes and goes to a family, since no one knows what he looks like, they think that he's a regular man who just needs a place to stay. He stays with a family and they show him around, they think he's a little strange but very polite and nice, but when they learn of his true identity, he tells them of what his intentions are to mearly warn Planet Earth of it's impending doom.The Day the Earth Stood Still is a true classic, I know there are a lot of young people who complain about the ending, how it's so anti-climatic, but I feel that it's a perfect film and I am so ticked off that it's being re-made. But I guess we will have to see what the film will be like, who knows? It might be good... yeah, right, sorry, was just trying to be nice. But I highly recommend you watch this movie, it's a true classic that has a strong message, has great actors, and fun effects. It's fun to watch these films, I wonder if they realized while making this film back in 1951 that they were acting out their own culture and history.10/10
So last year it seemed like one of the most talked about movies was Moneyball, everyone has been screaming about Brad Pitt's performance, so I was more than enthused to rent this film. I'm also a baseball fan, it's my favorite sport, so I thought I would naturally connect to this film as well as my fiancé who just a sports fanatic in general. Baseball is a tricky sport though, some consider it very boring and some consider it thrilling. So I was thinking that people would hated baseball would not get into this film, but over all the reviews have been more than positive. I actually think this was a good film, however for the first time in my baseball life, I found it kind of dull. Don't get me wrong, this is a really good movie, but I don't find the story that fascinating. I know that it's a story that was about the way we changed how we look at athletes when recruiting for teams, however the film can drag out a bit and doesn't get really good until the ending.Oakland A's general manager Billy Beane is upset by his team's loss to the New York Yankees in the 2001 post season. Beane attempts to devise a strategy for assembling a competitive team for 2002 but struggles to overcome Oakland's limited player payroll. During a visit to the Cleveland Indians, Beane meets Peter, a young Yale economics graduate with radical ideas about how to assess players' value. Beane tests Brand's theory by asking whether he would have drafted him, Beane having been a Major League player before becoming general manager. Sensing opportunity, Beane hires Brand as the Athletics' assistant general manager changing the way that baseball looks at athletes forever.I liked the exploration with Billy Beane, showing him not just as a man who is trying to pull his team back up but also a struggling father. He's human, he makes mistakes and has fears like any other man. I loved Brad's chemistry with Jonah, who I must say has come a long way in acting, I thought this guy to be nothing more but a man child who annoyed me in every role he ever took. I really liked Jonah Hill in this movie, he plays off the big boy actors very well just like his character in the film sort of speak. I loved seeing the rise of the Oakland A's, almost rooting for them as they are actually winning the games and becoming a real team(even though I'm a devote Cubs fan lol). Like I said before, despite all the good, I think the film is a bit too long and talky at times. I'm not sure if this was a good way to convert those who are not into baseball onto the sport. I know that's not the film's intention, but I like to see people get excited about baseball as it is an exciting sport. Brad does a great job, I'm not sure if this is my favorite role with him, but if he gets an Oscar nomination for it, good for him! I would just recommend this movie as a rental though if you really do want to see it, but it's one of those movies I saw once and more than happy with that.6/10
A few months back I saw the trailer for Precious and as scary as the trailer was, I was so curious about this movie. Then of course at the end of the trailer they mention how Tyler Perry and Oprah Winfrey are promoting this film and I just knew "Oh, boy, here we go with the 'Oprah loves it, it's gotta be good'". But still the story caught my interest and I was very interested in seeing this movie. So I just gotta say this: Mo'Nique blew me away! I saw her in Phat Girlz and I've seen her stand up, I love this woman. But when I saw Roscoe Jenkins with Matthew Lawrence, I wasn't so sure that anyone would take her seriously. She's absolutely amazing in this film, not like "oh, she got a break and did good" amazing, like phenomenally she should get an Oscar nomination amazing. She and new comer Gabourey Sidibe did a great job and made this film really work. This story is heart wrenching and one of the better films of 2009.In 1987, obese, illiterate, black 16-year-old Claireece "Precious" Jones lives in the New York City neighborhood of Harlem with her dysfunctional family; she has been raped and impregnated twice by her father, Carl, and suffers constant physical, mental and sexual abuse from her unemployed mother, Mary. The family resides in a tenement and subsists on welfare. Her first child, has Down Syndrome and is being cared for by Precious's grandmother. After Precious becomes pregnant for the second time, she is suspended from school. Her junior high school principal, Mrs. Lichtenstein arranges to have her attend an alternative school, which she hopes can help Precious change her life's direction. In Precious' mind there is another world, one in which, unlike her real one, she is loved and appreciated. Inspired by her new teacher Miss Rain, Precious begins learning to read. Precious meets sporadically with a social worker named Miss Weiss, who learns about incest in the household. She gives birth to her second child and names him Abdul. After Precious's mother deliberately drops three-day-old Abdul and hits Precious, Precious fights back long enough to get her son and flees her home permanently and eventually learns that she and her children are loved.Precious has captured America's heart and won't let go. While I feel like the ending falls a little flat, it's still a great story. I'm going to hate myself for this as I am a hater of Mariah Carey, but the girl can act? I didn't think it was possible after the disaster film that was Glitter but she and Lenny Kravitz really held their own in this film and did a good job. I'm not sure around Oscar time what kind of nominations this movie will receive but I'm hoping for Mo'Nique to get an Oscar nod for her incredible performance. Her speech at the end that I will not give away, but trust me it was beyond incredible and really moved me as well as the entire audience. But to see Precious, an overweight pregnant teenager, who does not feel like she belongs in this world go through life trying her best to just be invisible, going home to a monster mother to people reminding her she's loved and a great person was so beautiful. I do recommend Precious as it's an uplifting story, but like Slumdog Millionaire, you have to go through the good, the bad and the ugly to get the happy part of the story.8/10
The strange thing is that I had never heard of Mr. Brooks until I saw it on DVD at Hollywood Video; lately Kevin Costner has not had that many impressive movies on his hand, so I wasn't interested in seeing it. But I didn't see anything else that looked worth a look, so I figured I would try to give this movie a look and see if it had anything. I just watched it this morning and I have to say that this was a great thriller. I was so incredibly impressed with Costner's performance as Mr. Brooks, he played it so perfectly, one of the best serial killer performances since Kevin Spacey in Se7en. I'm not a fan of Dane Cook, but he actually pulled Mr. Smith off very well. Demi Moore, she did an alright job where she was believable. But William Hurt and Kevin Costner truly stole the show and were absolutely brilliant together.Mr. Earl Brooks is a successful man, he owns a successful box business, he has a gorgeous wife, a beautiful home, and a lovely daughter. But things aren't what they seem when we see the double life that Earl leads. He has an alternate personality named Marshell, that encourages him to continue his addiction of killing people. He's known as the "thumbprint" killer and Detective Atwood is on his case. But one killing he gets caught, by a photographer for in exchange for his silence, Mr. Smith, the photographer, wants to go on to Mr. Brook's next killing. But things get more twisted as we go more into the story.Mr. Brooks is an incredibly brilliant thriller that I was very impressed with. The cast and crew did an amazing job on bringing this horrific story to life. I'm now really interested in reading the book, so I would highly recommend the movie to any thriller lover. Kevin Costner did a perfect job of acting, I can't believe he did so well. Especially his scene where he suspects his daughter of murder, he and William Hurt were incredible. Mr. Brooks is a well told story and it was a great movie, definitely worth a watch.9/10
I have to say that I was really surprised with Joy Ride, I didn't know what to expect since I didn't know what the movie was about. But one of my friends was just screaming about this movie and how awesome it was, but then again she's just so in love with Paul Walker, so you can see where the doubts might have been. But I decided to rent it anyways and just give it a look and I have to say that I was actually impressed with this film, it had an awesome story, a brother you love to hate for getting them into the mess, and the two other likable characters. Well, you'll see what I mean when you see the film, but the story is a cool tense one.Lewis is coming home from college, and when he learns that his crush would like to drive home from her college, he turns in his airline ticket and buys a car and is headed to pick her up. But he calls his mom and once again his brother, Fuller, is in jail and Lewis volunteers for the job of picking him up. He does so and then installs a CB radio to know the way home, but Fuller wants to have fun and plays a prank on another truck driver, he makes Lewis pretend to be a girl called Candy Cane and to meet them at the hotel in a different room where another guest is staying. The next morning, the guest is brutally injured and in a coma, then the truck driver is stalking both brothers. They apologize and he backs off, but when they pick up Venna, Lewis's crush, the driver wants one more joke... for fun.Joy Ride is a constant tense thriller that reminded me somewhat of the Hitcher, it was awesome, it reminded me of some John Carpenter films. But the cast was really great, I mean, Steve, Paul, and Leelee worked very well together and just clicked. The story was so scary; I just kept wanting to get into and slap Fuller, it's like all this wouldn't have happened if it were not for him, but then again, we wouldn't have had a movie, right? I would highly recommend this film for any thriller lovers, this was a great joy ride.7/10
Growing up, I was in the generation of a lot of great kid's films like The Goonies, The Sandlot, Monster Squad and Stand by Me. But sadly my generation seemed to be the last one where we had great kid films that not only insulted it's demographic, but also had the great adventure that we needed. Watching those movies were just a great time and they've remained classics ever since I think because we haven't had a movie for a couple of decades. Steven Spielberg was the man who brought a lot of these classics alive, who better to collaborate with J.J. Abrams who knows great action and obviously has a love of the movies I just mentioned. They bring us Super 8, the trailers remained so mysterious and made you want to see the movie, because all it was, was a car crashing into a train and you had to guess what just jumped out of it. Sadly I had to wait until the rental, however what a great movie that I feel people are being just a little bit rough on.Joe, a 13-year-old boy living in a small town in Ohio, has lost his mother in a factory accident. His friend Charles Kaznyk convinces schoolmate Alice to be the protagonist's wife in his low-budget zombie movie on Super 8 film. Alice steals her father's car and takes Joe, Charles, Preston, Martin, and Cary to an old train depot where the group plans to film a scene. During the shoot, Charles sees a train coming towards the depot and sets up the cameras, hoping that the passing train will add authenticity to the scene. As they are filming Joe watches a pick-up truck drive onto the tracks and place itself in the path of an oncoming train, causing a massive explosion. Something breaks open one of the train car's doors and escapes. They discover that their teacher caused the "accident" and that there is something invading their town. Together they try to find out what it is and help each other when the times get more rough.The weird thing is I really did enjoy this movie, not just because of the nostalgic feeling but I honestly felt this was a good movie. I loved the chemistry between the kids, they all clicked so well and their friendships seemed very real. I loved the special effects, they didn't seem over the top with the CGI. The only complaint I would have with the film is the ending, where the kid is talking to the alien and saying how he could relate to him that bad things happen, which I though was very cheesy, but that's the Spielberg effect. I don't know why there are any negative reviews on the film, I know that you can't win them all but I loved that this traveled back in time for the adults and a great new way to introduce an excellent genre to the younger generation. Who knows if we will have any more classics down the line, but this was a fun trip down nostalgic lane. Super 8 has laughs, action, suspense and reminds you why you loved being a kid before technology hit so hard.9/10
When I first saw the trailer to Walk Hard: The Dewey Cox Story, I didn't think much of it other than "Oh, great, another Knocked Up wanna be", it just seems like they won't stop with these over the top comedies. But my friend and I decided to see it the other night and I have to admit, I really did laugh. I'm almost scared to say that the creators of the Superbad, Knocked Up, 40 Year Old Virgin are doing a great job in the comedy genre. Walk Hard: The Dewey Cox Story is stupid humor, but it's definitely a need in our lives when it comes to films where we don't have to think but just enjoy. Walk Hard: The Dewey Cox Story takes a joke at the big Oscar winning biographies like Walk the Line and Ray. Some of the humor is a little out there, but works like in the days of Airplane! The story is a lot of fun to watch though.Dewey Cox is an inspiring musician with a soulful voice and the history of the blues. He is trying to do double good in his life since he accidentally macheted his brother in half. He goes on to make huge hits in life, but is constantly accused of making the "devil's music". But through his success, he finds a beautiful duet singer, Darlene and makes her his wife. But he goes through the life struggle of drugs, sex, and rock and roll. He learns the true meaning of life and must deal with the fact that he can't smell anything, but in the end learns more about his 22 kids.Walk Hard: The Dewey Cox Story is silly, but it's all in good fun. I have to admit that I am glad that I saw it, as stupid as it was at times, like I said, we all need those brainless comedies. I'm sure once people give Walk Hard a better chance when it comes out on rent, somewhere down the line this will be a classic. I mean, come on! It had Jack Black as one of the Beatles in the film! OK, I know that it sounds stupid, but believe me, it's funny. Walk Hard: The Dewey Cox Story is a fun comedy that I would recommend to see, you'll get a few good laughs out of it.7/10
So this is it, the big one, supposedly one of the worst movies of all time. A few years ago, I saw a terrific movie called "Ed Wood", if you haven't seen this movie, please do, it's a great one. Ed Wood is dubbed as the worst director of all time, but if you see Ed Wood and read his biography, you can't help but actually like this guy. Despite the fact that he knew he was making trash, he never saw it that way, he had such passion for film and admiration for it. I don't think he looked at "Plan 9 from Outer Space" as a disaster, but something that could be a treasure one day. Believe me, this was a bad movie, but there is this certain charm about it that makes it into the category of "so bad, it's good". You can tell the cast and crew of the film actually did their best to bring this story to life. Even though the flaws are obvious, I can't help but love this film. I know this goes against everything that I believe in where a bad film is a bad film, but I honestly had such a good time laughing that I don't want to give the movie a poor rating.In San Fernando, California, two gravediggers are filling the grave of a deceased woman, the young wife of an old man . Suddenly they hear a strange noise and decide to leave the cemetery. As they turn to leave, the resurrected corpse of the old man's wife attacks and kills them. Absorbed in his grief over his wife's death, the old man walks out of his house and into the path of an oncoming automobile. At his funeral, two mourners discover the bodies of the gravediggers. Inspector Daniel Clay, along with several police officers, come to the cemetery to investigate. While searching the graveyard, Clay encounters the female zombie, who is now joined by the corpse of the old man. Clay is attacked and killed by the zombies. Trent is watching the cemetery with his wife, Paula, and tells her about his flying saucer encounter, stating that the Army has sworn him to secrecy about what he saw. He suspects that whatever is happening in the cemetery is related to his UFO encounter.This movie is just a miracle, one of those movies you have to see to believe. One of my favorite moments being that the detective has his gun in his hand, the finger on the trigger and he is scratching his face with the gun and just waving it around at people as if it's a pointer. I also nearly died laughing as one of the film's most genuine moments of horror where Clay gets out of the coffin, but you can tell he gets stuck and can't get himself out. Of course how could you forget since it was Bela Legosi's last film and there was only stock footage of him shown, they needed him for more shots so they hire someone who looks nothing like Bela and is beyond significantly taller who just covers his face with the cape. The villain is very possibly Dr. Smith's distant relative, because I cannot believe how flamboyant he was. The "aliens" look exactly like humans and claim to speak a different language even though one of the aliens is named "Janet". The big solution to all of life's problems? Blowing up the sun! I loved the line "If we blow up the sun, we become a stronger nation", oh, boy, did that line kill me in tears. Also the line "We have to admit they were years ahead of us", cut to the next shot where the UFO is on fire and explodes. Yes, this movie is bad, but it's just too much fun to say "Skip It". Like I said, you have to see it to believe it. Ed Wood was a clumsy director, but given the time and money he had, give the man some credit, he knew what the audience wanted and that was entertainment.7/10
In 1994, my big sister had this huge thing for Brad Pitt, well, every woman did, I think it was Brad's hair, the hair every woman wanted to have, lol. But my sister's big obsession was with Interview with the Vampire and Legends of the Fall, and to me, Legends of the Fall just looked boring, and I never wanted to see it. But on New Year's day, my friend and I were flipping through the channels and came across Legends of the Fall and decided to go ahead and see what it was about. So we watched it and I have to say that actually it was a good movie. It was beautifully shot, thanks to Edward Zwick's talent as a director, and created this into a wonderful story. Also the performances were absolutely terrific, the cast really made the story a pleasure to watch.The Ludlow brothers are close and have a wonderful brotherhood, but as adults, their lives take on separate directions. Tristan and Samuel go to war and Samuel is tragically killed. Tristan comes back home to his other brother, Alfred, and his father, William, and Alfred has taken an interest into politics as well as trying to woo his crush, Susannah, but she loves Tristand and has an affair with him. But Tristan soon leaves to discover himself and when he returns, he finds out that Susannah has married Alfred. Tristan then marries a beautiful woman, Isabel, and has two beautiful children with her, but when tragedy strikes again, Tristan wants revenge and Alfred must learn the meaning of loyalty and brotherhood.Legends of the Fall is really a good movie I would say. I think besides the way it's shot, it's the performances that really make the film a good one. Because we know that this film could have been really boring, but thanks to Zwick, he made it into one of the semi-over looked films of 1994. Aidan and Anthony pull in the great performances though, especially Aidan, he was so heart breaking, he makes you hate his character and then love him again. I would recommend Legends of the Fall, for those who appreciate film, this is a good one to watch.7/10
I was expecting a complete and total disaster of a film when I saw the trailer for "Little Man", not to mention that it's on the bottom 100 on IMDb, and those ratings are usually pretty accurate. But I liked "White Chicks", I proudly admit, and I like the Waynes brothers, wither you want to admit it or not, they give you a few good laughs in most of their films. So, I figured to just try to give Little Man a chance, what harm could it do? Honestly, it wasn't that bad, I actually had a decent time watching this.Calvin is a two foot criminal on the run with a hundred thousand dollar diamond and while running from the cops, puts it in a lady's purse. Cal and his partner follow the couple and since Calvin is so little and the couple, Darryl and Venessa, wants a baby, Cal dresses up as one and the couple takes him in. Thinking it will be for a short while, Cal does this hoping to get the diamond and run, but it won't be easy since Darryl is dedicated to being a good dad.Like I said, I was expecting something really bad, but I had a couple laughs during the film. I honestly don't understand what people have against the Waynes brothers, while Little Man is in no way Oscar material, it was a silly comedy with a few light hearted laughs.5/10
The long awaited sequel for Die Hard finally came this summer! Live Free or Die Hard could have been a disaster considering that it's been 12 years since Die Hard with a Vengeance or there were worries that it would be damaging to the original Die Hard. But as it turns out, Live Free or Die Hard turned out to be probably the best action movie of the year! Bruce Willis is now 52 years old, but not only does he not look it, he can still play John McClane like he did 20 years ago. He's still rocking these Die Hard films. It was also a different take since we are now in a different era, so it was cool to see all the updated features of living and being in 2007.John is still divorced and his kids won't talk to him, it's a wonder why he's still in his job since it's all he has left in his life. But when he gets an assignment mearly to pick up a computer hacker, Matt Farrel, he and Matt get attacked in Matt's apartment. It turns out there are some terrorists that are after Matt since he's such a well known computer hacker, these terrorists are after money and to make the country their's. But I guess they didn't see the other Die Hard movies, because they should know better than to ever mess with John McClane or his daughter! Live Free or Die Hard may have extremely unbelievable situations, but that's what makes it such a great action film! These are some of the best action sequences I have seen in a long time, my favorite was the SUV with the female terrorist, that was so cool! John has in no way lost his edge and I wouldn't hesitate to say that this is the best Die Hard sequel so far! Justin Long was a great addition, he's coming quite a long way in his career. Timothy Olyphant is a great villain, but still I wouldn't compare him to Alan Rickman, he's the ultimate villain. But still, I would highly recommend this film to any one, it's a great action movie and just altogether an excellent summer blockbuster.8/10
I was so extremely depressed last night because I saw Clerks for the very first time. I also rented Clerks and Clerks II at the same time thinking I would probably love the first one and want to see the second one immediately, so you can understand why I was nervous to see the second Clerks after being sorely disappointed with the fist. But I figured, I rented it, just watch it and get your money's worth, so I watched it this morning and big shock! I laughed hysterically throughout the whole film.Donte is back with Randell and the quick shop has burned down, so they start working at a fast food joint. They work with their boss, Becky and a highly religious nerd, Elias. Donte is also engaged and is moving to Florida the next day with his fiancée, but he has had an affair with Becky and finds out that she is pregnant. Jay and Silent Bob are also back and if you ask me, they have better jokes this time around.Clerks II also rocked on the argument of Lord of the Rings vs. Star Wars, about time that somebody settled that argument! I almost died laughing with Randell and Elias, they made quite a pair and Jay and Silent Bob were a lot more enjoyable in this Clerks. Rosario Dawson was a great addition to the cast, she was absolutely lovable. I would highly recommend Clerks II over Clerks, this was a comedy that could work for anyone.9/10
If there is something I discovered opening day of Ted: do not underestimate Family Guy and American Dad fans. Seth MacFarlane has a bigger fan base than I thought, not to say I didn't know that he wasn't famous, just didn't realize how big he was. When I saw the trailer for Ted, I knew my fiancé would love this movie, he always tells me about what I missed on the new episode of Family Guy or American Dad or The Cleveland Show. I'm the average watcher of Family Guy, I'll watch a couple episodes that re-run on TBS at night, and of the three, I'll find one bad, one OK and one absolutely hilarious. In Ted, the jokes just keep coming at you, for every one that misses, the next one is a hit. This was made directly for the fans of MacFarlane's humor. After all, the poster does say "from the creator of Family Guy" and the cast is mostly a typical work day for MacFarlane. But over all, Ted does work as a comedy that I'm sure you could get a kick out of.In 1985, in Boston, John Bennett is a lonely child who dearly wished for his new Christmas gift, a large teddy bear named Ted, to come to life to be his friend. That wish coincided with a falling star and Ted is brought to life. After John's parents got over the shock, word of the miracle spread and Ted was briefly a celebrity. Twenty-seven years later, John and Ted are still lazy but loving companions enjoying life even while John is pursuing a years-long relationship with a level-headed office worker, Lori. As their fourth anniversary of their relationship approaches, Lori hopes to marry John, but she feels he can't move ahead with his life with Ted around, who has become a vulgar, obnoxious wastrel. John is resistant to making his lifelong companion leave, but he is finally persuaded that night to act when the couple discover Ted at home with four prostitutes. Ted is fine at first on his own, but still wants John to still party with him causing problems in his relationship once again.Like the shows, there are some jokes that seem to go too far. I don't mind 9/11 jokes every once in a while, but MacFarlane just throws a few out there and some are a little too much. His relationship with Mark Wahlberg in the film is similar to the relationship between Peter and Brian on Family Guy. And sort of in the spirit of Kevin Smith, who is an obvious fan of Star Wars, MacFarlane is a fan of the 80's and is trying to bring a B-Movie back, Flash Gordon. However, I can't deny that I seriously did laugh quite a few times with this movie. We have a good comedic cast that works and one of the things I really appreciate on MacFarlane's part as a writer is that he didn't make Mila Kunis' character a one-note jerk girlfriend who everyone hates. You understand her character and even Mark Wahlberg's. Heck, he even makes Ted, a bear, very believable as a friend who is still stuck in the party mode in life and takes his best friend down with him. There are two villains in here, one is a large child and his dad who will DO ANYTHING to make him happy, almost like Silence of the Lambs style, this dad is just plain creepy. The effects for Ted were great and the story, despite being predictable, was still very decent. I got a few good laughs from it and would say that it is very much worth the watch. If you're the average viewer of the shows of MacFarlane, I think you'll like it too. If you're a die hard fan, there's no question that you're going to love Ted.7/10
Romantic comedies, if you read my other reviews on the genre, you know I'm not a fan. At least not for the typical cliché after another type of romantic comedy, where the males are one dimensional and only an accessory to women. Where the women are somehow the most intolerable person on Earth but learns who she truly is at the end and had to find a man to figure it out. Where the best friend asks uncomfortable questions to a strange man if he's gay, where the parents are at all not normal and do strange things like dance naked in the woods, where the gay guy knows all about relationships, where the leads have the big kiss in front on family and friends some how, where the OK, you don't need me to go on. But based on the Sex and the City created book, He's Just Not That Into You was a relationship guide for the women and men who need to get a clue when you go on a date and the person isn't calling. "He's out of town", "She said she just got out of a bad relationship", "He may have lost my number", "She said she had a busy job", the list goes on with the excuses when all you want to do is honestly tell your friend "nope, sounds like they're just not into you". Why is it so hard to say? Why not be blunt? It would save us a whole lot of time and sanity and this is what the movie explores.Gigi is an actively dating single woman who repeatedly misreads mundane actions and comments from her dates as indications they are romantically interested in her. Stood up at the bar one evening she befriends the promiscuous bar manager Alex who reveals the strategies guys use to avoid a girl. This friendship continues and his eagerness to always assist, interpreted by Gigi as a sign that he is interested in her. We move onto Janine who is starting to have difficulties in her marriage to Ben. With Janine focused on their home renovations Ben becomes attracted to Anna, a yoga instructor and aspiring singer, and the feeling is mutual. During a tense shopping trip to select wood finishes Ben reveals to Janine that he slept with someone. Janine is devastated but rationalizes Ben's behavior, blames herself for being too cold in the relationship, and declares she wants to salvage the marriage. We then meet Beth, who is living with her boyfriend Neil, who is also friends. After seven years together Beth wants to get married, but Neil does not believe in marriage. Beth confronts Neil about the problem. When he still doesn't want to get married she breaks up with him. But is it possible with all the heartache, does "happily ever after" still exist? You'll have to find out.While the movie does have some cliché moments and ties together too well at the end over all, I'd say that He's Just Not That Into You was worth the watch for me. There was a lot of honesty in the film that is so based on the modern relationship we face today. While the plots are a lot to keep up with, we each have one story to relate too or maybe even all of them. Pretty much I had something to relate to each story, we learn lessons as we grow up, some don't though as I have friends that each fit into the categories of: the clueless, the desperate, the promiscuous, the heart broken, etc. Watching this movie with my friends was actually an interesting experience as for some reason it brought up a good conversation afterwards. While the movie is a romantic comedy and not the best that I've seen, it's one of the better ones' than our too predictable yucky slop of what these directors call a film. I would recommend this movie for most people, everyone that I watched this with enjoyed the film. I think it's just a good look at today's relationships, but if you're looking for substance, I don't think you're watching the right film.6/10
You know in 2009 it seemed like we really didn't have a decent string of movies, the first movie that was supposed to kick off the summer blockbusters was "X-Men Origins: Wolverine" and it didn't get many good reviews. I love the X-Men series personally, so I suppose I was a bit scared to see this in the theater when it was released because my friend said she was disappointed by it. Figured that it would be a better rental vs. theater. So I watched it the other day on TV and I have to say that actually it wasn't as bad as I was expecting. But I do see where the disappointment was as it seems like Origins relies more on the visuals vs. Logan's story and also the ending is so rushed that you don't seem to care about it's characters. Logan aka "Wolverine" is one of the most fascinating characters in X-Men, his past is something that everyone is interested in. But instead while we get a strong performance by Jackman, it seems like it's more about "revenge, revenge, revenge" once again, such a cliché. What could have been a very smart story was a little too rushed in some areas and restricted in others.In 1845, James Howlett sees his father killed by Thomas Logan. The trauma activates the boy's mutation: bone claws protrude from James' hands, and he kills his father's murderer, not realizing that Logan was his father all along. James flees with Victor, the abused son of their father who is now James' brother. They spend the next century as soldiers, fighting in the American Civil War, both World Wars and the Vietnam War. Major William Stryker approaches them, and offers them membership in Team X. They join the team, but the group's questionable actions and disregard for human life cause James to leave. Six years later, James, lives in Canada with his girlfriend, Kayla. Colonel Stryker locates Logan and warns him that someone is killing members of the team. Shortly afterward, Victor murders Kayla and attacks Logan. Stryker offers Logan a way to beat Victor; Logan undergoes an operation to reinforce his skeleton with a virtually indestructible metal. Once the procedure is complete, Stryker orders Logan's memory erased, but Logan overhears and fights his way out. Now filled with revenge, Logan is out to kill both Victor and Stryker for all they've done to him.Now I thought the action scenes were great, a little over done at times, but it did keep the suspense up. Also like I mentioned before, one of the things that saved this movie for me was the strong performance by Hugh Jackman. He is a commander in an action lead role, it's interesting how versatile he is, he goes from Broadway to Wolverine. Also Liev Schrieber does a good job as Victor, Wolverine's brother, even if he was more growl than dramatic. One of the scenes that ticked me off though is how he "attacks" Logan's love, Kayla. She's showed later on that she wasn't killed and only used to trap Logan, but it's so easy to tell that she's part of the plan as we see Victor coming close to her, he's clearly a threat and she looks like "OK, did you have to ruin my car for the plan?". She was a lousy performance and in no way strong enough for the role. Danny Huston does a good bad guy, but once again one of my favorite scenes that doesn't make any sense, granted we wouldn't have a movie but, he tells his soldiers how they are going to shoot him to erase his memory. Why not shoot him right as he's screaming hysterically out of the tank? Not a strong story, but good action and a good lead kept me interested, it's a 50/50 for X-Men fans, but most likely are going to have the same opinion as me.5/10
What happens when you get a team of super hero's together who shouldn't be in a room together let alone trying to save a city? You have the Avengers, one of the most anticipated movies for years. I remember working at a movie theater back in 2007 and one of the guys that worked there was telling me about how there was talks to make the film and I thought it was never going to happen, well, clearly this is why I'm not in the stock market. But when I heard that Joss Whedon was behind it, I couldn't wait, he's the creator of Buffy the Vampire Slayer and is one of Hollywood's best writers. He has a genuine love for comics, action and giving characters real depth. After viewing The Avengers, you couldn't ask for better action on the big screen and so much great excitement. I think the fans got everything they were asking for and deserved with this great popcorn flick.Nick Fury arrives at a remote research facility during an evacuation. The commander explains that an energy source of unknown potential has activated and opened a mysterious portal. Through it steps the exiled Loki, who takes the Tesseract and uses his abilities to control the minds of several S.H.I.E.L.D. personnel including agent Clint Barton and a few others in order to aid in his getaway. In response to the attack, Fury reactivates the Avengers Initiative: Agent Natasha Romanoff, Dr. Bruce Banner, Agent Phil Coulson, Tony Stark, and Steve Rogers with an assignment to retrieve the Tesseract from Loki. However, Thor, Loki's adoptive brother, arrives and attempts to free Loki to reason with him. When that doesn't work, the hero's start fighting over who's in charge until they realize that Loki's ego is growing stronger and will destroy the world if they do not stick together and stop him as The Avengers.First off, the actors: Robert Downey, Jr., Chris Evans, Chris Hemsworth, Mark Ruffalo and Scarlett Johansson all clicked so amazingly well together. I'm still a little bummed that they couldn't get Edward Norton for the Hulk, he was a perfect cast and just excellent in The Incredible Hulk, but Mark gives his own take to the character and comes through in the end. The effects are so amazing and grand to watch on the big screen that this was the only way you should see the movie as they are just tearing New York apart with all these aliens and flying creatures in the middle of down town Manhatten. Now one of the things I do have to laugh a little at is that all the characters get these cool costumes, sleek, sexy and toughthen you have Captain America who looks like he got his costume at Target. You can't blame the officer he tells to get the police to get the civilians to safety and the officer asks "and who are you that I should be taking these orders from?". There are some great comedic moments, especially with Robert Downey, Jr. and The Hulk just going crazy on Loki.There are a couple of flaws in the film like Loki. I don't know if it was the actor, Tom Hiddleston, but I just couldn't really take him seriously as a villain. I found the aliens who were invading more threatening as Loki just keeps saying "Kneel before me! I am a God!" and giving you a used car salesman's smile. There are moments where it seems to drag a little with the talking, as we're getting our hero's together. I'm all for development, but I wanted a WWE smack down because we're not given as much depth with these characters as you would say Spider-man or Batman. But I think I'm just nitpicking at this point because I don't want to put anyone off on the film.The Avengers is everything you could ask for in a superhero film. It's got great action, excellent chemistry, good style and is just a ton of fun to watch. I got to see this in a crowded theater where you can tell the audience was just pumped up to see something good and you got to give the film credit for bringing some excitement to the theater. We don't get many exciting films that have actual good writing to it like this. Joss did an excellent job handling these big guys on the screen and I'm looking forward to the sequel. Though I hope there is more egging on of the Hulk, I would have a ton of fun if I were next to him saying what Captain America was talking about his mama.8/10
You know what's so strange? Even though I had wanted to see this movie, I was expecting it to be bad, from the trailer, you just knew it was going to be stupid. I still was curious to what it was going to be like and I possibly had one of the best times in a theater watching this movie. I think because we've had so many of these slasher films that everything is so clichéd and you know what to expect, this was a way of doing all that but keeping it fast paced. It poked fun at itself and gave exactly what it should have to it's audience. Not to mention this has possibly one of my new most favorite characters of all time, Jessica. This girl is the ultimate nasty mean b-tch that you know should be killed, but I didn't want her too, she was awesome and hilarious. She led the group and had great charisma. The only character they could've done without or just put in a different actress was Ellie, the nerdy girl of the group played by Rumer Willis, this girl gets on my nerves because I think she's mainly trying to get famous off of her parent's name. But the story while predictable was still a lot of fun.Run by Mrs. Crenshaw the college sorority Theta Pi is home to seniors and best friends Jessica, Cassidy, Ellie, Claire, Chugs and Megan who, despite Mrs. Crenshaw's best efforts, constantly throw wild parties. During one of these parties Megan discovers her boyfriend Garrett is cheating on her and, with her friends' help, decides to pull a prank on him as payback, faking her own death while making out with Garrett. With help from the sisters Garrett brings Megan to a steel mill, the girls start joking by saying they need to dismember the body, Garrett then stabs Megan with a lug wrench, actually killing her. Panicking, the group dumps Megan's body in an old mineshaft, vowing never to speak of the events that transpired ever again. Eight months later, during the party held after graduation, the girls all receive a picture sent to their phones: a hooded figure holding the bloody wrench Garret used to kill Megan. Jessica takes lead and insists it is merely a prank and they continue with the party. But a hooded killer appears killing off each of the girls involved one by one.Sorority Row doesn't have likable characters at all and that's why I liked it I think, because it didn't take itself so seriously, we know these girls deserve everything they get after throwing their friend into a ditch without giving her family the proper grief and closure of knowing that their daughter died. Plus that tire iron is possibly the coolest weapon we've seen in a while, it has a blade on one end and I think a bottle opener on the other, lol, OK, just joking. But the kills were cool, the dialog was hilarious, and the characters were awesomely mean and nasty. This was a fast paced action slasher movie that I'm sure in some way will be a cult classic down the line, like those 80's films, I'm sure Sorority Row will have the same reaction. Anyone who didn't have a little fun watching this movie, I feel sorry for you.7/10
I'm not really into Zorro or the story, but my mom has been trying to convince me for a couple years to give The Mask of Zorro a shot, and I do love Antonio Bandares and Catherine Zeta Jones, so I figured to be fair and give The Mask of Zorro a fair shot. And over all, I'd say that The Mask of Zorro is no doubt fast paced and packed with action and romance, Catherine and Antonio had a great connection and passion that sizzled on screen. Although, my question is mainly Anthony Hopkins, ENGLAND's popular actor as a Spaniard? Alrighty then! Zorro is Anthony Hopkins at first, but when he is seized and his wife is killed and his daughter is taken away from his sworn enemy as if she were his daughter, Anthony after 20 years in prison finally escapes and finds a thief, Antonio Bandares and trains him as the new Zorro that the people need. Once he sees Anthony's daughter, Catherine Zeta Jones, it is love at first sight, but she does not know still that Anthony is her real father and the man who raised her is destroying the state of California.I would recommend this movie for a night with friends, it over all was a good movie to watch. I loved the fight between Catherine and Anotonio, it was so awesome and so passionate, these two really did an awesome job. Once you get past and accept Anthony as a Spanard, I think you'll do fine with the movie.7/10
Ah, Tim Burton, one of my favorite directors of all time. Now when it comes to his original ideas, his movies are just incredible and something from a different world. But when it comes to his remakes, for some odd reason he can never get something right with making the film into his own or even something that was respectable to the original story. Now granted one thing I love about him is that he tries to stay true to the original book, as we see in Charlie and the Chocolate Factory, we see that now with Through the Looking Glass. Alice in Wonderland is one of the most disturbing stories you could think about, but it's an extremely memorable Disney classic. No matter what age you are, if you've seen the movie, it's a great one but always manages to give you the shivers with some of the imagery and ideas. Again, hate to make the comparison, but like The Chocolate Factory, Tim and Johnny Depp team up again to make him even more disturbing looking than ever. I love Johnny Depp, but what the heck is he doing with these characters? He's making them so painfully uncomfortable to watch on screen that it took away from the story, at least for me. He didn't steal the movie, I'd give the credit to Helena Bonham Carter as the Red Queen, she was a pleasure to watch and makes a memorable villain.Troubled by a strange recurring dream, nineteen-year-old Alice Kingsleigh attends a party that she is told is an engagement party to wed her to Hamish Ascot, whose family now owns her deceased father's trading firm. Unsure of how to reply, she runs away to chase after a rabbit, and accidentally falls into a rabbit hole. The only exit in the world is too small, causing Alice to use a series of potions to shrink and escape. Upon exiting, she is welcomed by the White Rabbit, the Dormouse, and Tweedledum and Tweedledee, who question her identity as "the right Alice." They take her to the Caterpillar, who decides that she is "not hardly Alice." Meanwhile, Iracebeth the Red Queen, who has conquered Underland by stealing the crown from her sister Mirana the White Queen, is informed by the Knave of Hearts that Alice has returned to Underland, causing her to send Bayard the bloodhound to find her. The wandering Alice encounters the Cheshire Cat, who takes her to a tea party, where she meets the Mad Hatter, March Hare, and the Dormouse. The Hatter decides that she is "absolutely Alice," settling any doubt. Now they have decided that she is the one who is going to save their world and the White Queen's crown.The film certainly has it's flaws, it goes a little too Chronicles of Narnia for me towards the end. Also, I know this is a movie, I know I'm going to ruin the story, but I couldn't help but think throughout this whole movie, Alice has a potion that can make her into a giant, she has to destroy the evil Red Queen, why not just make herself bigger and squash all of her soldiers? Again, forgive me, I know it's Hollywood, the movie would be only 5 minutes long if I made it, but it just seemed to convenient for no one to bring up. Also what the heck was with the break dance at the end? It felt too out of place and once again so uncomfortable to watch on screen, that it took away from the story. But, while Alice in Wonderland has problems that it does need to work on, visually, it's really amazing. This was a great 3D experience, the Red Queen looked amazing and very real. I loved Anne Hathaway as the White Queen and her world of bright and pure color that made it just lovely to watch. As for the actors, Helen took the crown for performance, Anne did a decent job as well. But as for Johnny Depp, I don't know what drug he's taking, but he really needs to step back. He's good at playing eccentric characters as we see with Edward Scissorhands and Jack Sparrow, but as for Willy Wonka and that Mad Hatter, it's too much and extremely painful to watch. Mia as Alice did an OK job, nothing really memorable, but she couldn't do much as the script needs some major improvements. OK, before I run out of room, I'm sorry to babble, but I'd say this is worth the look in the theater as a matinée, but nothing more as it's more visual than story driven.6/10
These past few years we've had a few comedies come out where it does make fun of what Hollywood is today, but they're usually average and get a couple laughs. We now have Tropic Thunder, this movie is a parody of today's Hollywood with random actors in a big movie and succeeds so well with non stop laughs and fun actors. Tropic Thunder is so well put together and was a perfect spoof of the method actor, the comedian, the rapper, and the action star together in a movie, not to mention Tom Cruise, who knew this guy could be so funny? I mean in a movie; but it seems like he had an absolute blast making this movie, everyone looked liked they were having fun and Ben Stiller really did a great job, this was one of the funniest movies I have seen this summer. Coming here on IMDb there were a lot of haters who were just trashing Rober Downey, Jr. and calling this film so racist, after they see this movie, I'm sure their mouths will be shut, because he was the greatest part of Tropic Thunder.Tugg Speedman, the action star, Jeff Portnoy, the comedian, Alpa Chino, the rapper, Kevin Sandusky, the "and introducing" actor, and Kirk Lazarus, the method five time award winning actor. These stuck up egotistic actors/wanna-be's are starring in the new big budget Veitnam War movie, but it's not going so well with these guys who can't seem to get motivated. So the director and author of the book "Tropic Thunder" take them out to the real jungle of Vietnam, the guys still think they are doing the movie, but what they don't know is that they are being attacked by real terrorists, way to get motivated.Tropic Thunder is seriously one of the funniest movies I have seen in a while, I miss these comedies where the humor is the kind that is just a spoof of real life people. Hollywood today is incredibly ridicules when you think about it and Tropic Thunder just makes you laugh about it. Without a doubt Robert Downey, Jr. stole the show with his controversial character, "the dude playing the dude disguised as another dude", going from a white Aussie to a hard core black man, he actually had me convinced, maybe he should be nominated for an Oscar, lol, just kidding, but he was great. Ben Stiller has redeemed himself very much, he hasn't made me laugh so hard since Zoolander. Jack Black was also incredibly funny, I loved his hard core addiction to heroin and how it drove him crazy. I highly recommend this movie, it was so much fun to watch and is guaranteed to have you laughing like crazy.9/10
I have to say that this was one of the most insulting films I have seen. I remember seeing "Not Another Teen Movie" in the theaters when it was released, and not getting a lot of the jokes because I had not seen She's All That, that's pretty much the main movie that is made fun of. So, She's All That has been on TV, but obviously, most movies on TV are so badly edited and you have to deal with commercials, so I finally broke down and rented this silly movie.She's All That is about a girl, Laney, who is supposed to be "the ugliest dorkiest" girl at school, even though she's not really ugly, Zach, the good looking popular jock, has just been dumped by his popular girlfriend and has made a bet with his friend that he can make any girl into a prom queen, so they pick Laney. And something totally unpredictable happens, he ends up learning more about himself and hates that he's using Laney since he's falling for her. But can she forgive him once she finds out the truth? If you can't figure this out, you need brain surgery.This film is totally corny and very unbelievably predictable and has horrible acting with a lame plot. The only thing I found somewhat amusing was Matthew Lillard's character, he was the only character that made me laugh. Laney, she wasn't that sympathetic nor was Zach, so what the heck? God help these actors, because they better not post that they did this movie on their resume's.3/10
Megan Fox, this girl is getting a ton of attention, mainly because Transformers got the hot girl who knew everything about cars and now she's the fantasy of every guy. I think a lot of guys are going to this movie expecting to see a naked Megan Fox, but sorry to disappoint, it doesn't happen, but I'm sure there's a kissing scene that will get your rocks off. As for the movie Jennifer's Body, I know there are going to be quite a bit of haters for this movie, but honestly I enjoyed it. Written by Diablo Cody who wrote Juno there's a lot of question on wither dialog is realistic and honestly I think it is. My school had a lot of cliques who talked like she writes. Jennifer's Body is no exception, this is a strange movie but is great in the fact that we finally get a good female horror movie. Who knew Megan Fox could pull in a scary performance? Her and Amanda Seyfried had some great chemistry and made the film work. While the script needs a little improvement, it's still a lot of fun to watch.Nerdy, reserved bookworm Anita "Needy" Lesnicki and arrogant, conceited flag girl Jennifer Check have been best friends "since the sandbox", although they share little in common. One night, Jennifer drags Needy to a local dive bar to attend a concert by indie rock band Low Shoulder, with eyes on its blithely evil lead singer, Nikolai Wolf. A disastrous fire destroys the bar, and Jennifer ends up leaving the bar with the band, who take her into the woods, where she learns that the band is worshiping Satan, and that Wolf intends to use her as a virgin sacrifice in order to gain fame. However, as Jennifer was not a virgin, the demon spirit takes over her body. Later that evening, Jennifer appears at Needy's house, covered in blood, looking vacant, and vomits black fluid. The following morning, Jennifer appears fine, and Needy slowly deduces that Jennifer is eating the bodies of boys to survive. As Needy's male classmates are steadily killed off in gruesome attacks, the young girl must uncover the truth behind her friend's transformation and find a way to stop the bloodthirsty rampage before it reaches her own boyfriend Chip.One of the things I do wish Diablo explored was Jennifer's character a little more, just to give the audience a little insight, knowing that this gorgeous girl has insecurities. A lot of girls in high school are like Jennifer, except for the eating boys part, they think they're a gift to the school they attend because they're so gorgeous, but they try to control things around them because they will feel insecure otherwise. The film is a little shaky on some comedic elements, but the scene where Adam Brody is sacrificing Megan to Satan and just the way he's reacting to the whole ceremony, reading directions he got off the internet was killing me in laughter. The ending was terrific, I won't give it away. But for me one of the most memorable scenes was when Needy sees Jennifer covered in blood and Megan slowly smiles with blood dripping out of her mouth, scared me half to death. The movie could have been a little more, but I had a good time watching it. I think over all it was fun, it'll be forgotten, it's not a classic, but it's good for a scare and a laugh.6/10
I don't know what it is about film trying to steer city people from the country, but they sure do try hard in film with Deliverance to Straw Dogs. I have to admit, I've never seen the original Straw Dogs, and I am ashamed as I've heard it's a good movie. Just never had the opportunity to see it, but hopefully that'll change soon since it looks really interesting. So I can't compare the original with the remake just yet. But I think that's pretty fair to judge on since I heard that this is a bit different from the original with the setting. This time it takes place in the country. I visited Idaho a few years ago to meet my ex's family, I'm a born and raised Chi-Town girl, very city, but when I went to Idaho, I thought it wouldn't be a big deal. Apparently I was very wrong, I felt like I was in a different country, people are different and it's a bit scary the way they look at you as I'm sure my ex felt with the city being a little more isolated being in a busy place where people don't notice each other. Whole point to this story is that it's amazing how scary it can be being from a city or from the south and not knowing your surroundings is scary enough as it is, Straw Dogs explores that terror to the enth degree.David Sumner and his wife and TV actress Amy, move to Mississippi, where Amy grew up, to rebuild Amy's recently deceased father's house, and so that David can finish a script. David meets Amy's ex-boyfriend Charlie and his friends, whom he hires to fix the house's roof, which was recently destroyed by a tornado. Charlie and his friends begin taunting David, who is initially condescending to their customs. The taunting escalates into harassment as they make crude remarks towards Amy and play loud music to annoy David and prevent him from working on his screenplay. The taunting gets more and more threatening leading to physical violence. The boys taunt that David is not a man, but they may want to be careful on pushing him too far.Today with horror films, we have torture porn such as Saw and Hostel. I may have not seen the original Straw Dogs, but I'm sure that the deaths were not as dramatic as they were in this film. I felt that the extreme violence really took away from the film. First off I'm guessing that I'm supposed to take this movie realistically, so why would this smart guy murder the southerners so viciously? Granted he has a witness that could back him up and say it was self defense, but I'm pretty sure the police are going to look at a bear trap over the head as a bit extreme. I know that the audience wants the entertainment, but I think this was a bit too over the top with the gore factor.But the film does have some perks, the whole setting is horrific. Being isolated from the city is scary where you're used to having everything at your fingertips, but not knowing where to go for help is horrible. Alexander Skarsgård takes a break from True Blood, somewhat with the over southerness, and makes a great creeper. James Marsden does an alright job as David, though he plays him very blandly so honestly I really didn't care much for his character. Kate Bosworth did alright, but again her character is kinda on the mean girl level, so I don't really care for her as well. James Woods, what can I say? He's James Woods, he's always a pleasure to watch on the screen and does give his best to the character. Is the film scary? In some ways yes with it's atmosphere and fear of the unknown, not knowing what these crazy boys would do next could be a bit creepy. But also since most of the characters were a bit dull, it took away any sympathy you could have for them. The film is certainly flawed but I don't think it was terrible, they gave a good effort for the most part. I would just say that this is a rental and now I'm going to get my butt in gear and get the original Straw Dogs.5/10
Just a few days ago, my mom and I watched a documentary on the famous Zodiac killer and his victims. It was incredibly interesting so it got me thinking about the film Zodiac that was released this year and lucky enough it was released on DVD today so I rented it. My friend and I just watched it a couple of hours ago and really liked it, especially on how it ended and was over all shot. I thought it was kinda cool how it started off like a documentary type of movie, but then was turning into a thriller that kept you going and guessing, even if you knew the whole story.In the small towns of California, there are several brutal murders, eventually going onto San Fransisco. These murders are extremely violent and very random, and every time it happens there is a message or sign that is left by the killer that calls himself the "Zodiac". He sends letters to the press on how and where he killed his victims and teases the police that they will never catch him. But Robert, one of the newspaper cartoonist starts to obsess about the killer, who he is and how they can capture him.With an all star cast, we had absolutely no problem with acting because it was terrific. Jake and Mark held their own very well. The whole story is very chilling and kept you going. The Zodiac Killer is a case that forever will remain a mystery and it was a great idea for a film, Fincher added a Se7en type of feel to this film. It's so funny how I knew the story and how it ended already, but I was actually just waiting to see what would happen in the next scene. I would highly recommend this film to any thriller fan, I'm sure you'll enjoy it, it's a great one for 2007.8/10
Oh how sad is this, I finally finished the Police Academy series, with the first 4 sequels, I was actually looking forward to the last of the bunch, but as it turns out, everyone was right, Mission to Moscow fails and falls flat on it's face. There was no laughing at all on my case and I was actually looking forward to this movie. I loved the first few Police Academy movies, so I didn't see why I couldn't love the last couple sequels, but at this point, I think they were just trying to milk the Police Academy series for all that it was worth. There is only 2 of the original classmates back together and we have Harris, Harris is the only funny character these past couple of sequels. Mission to Moscow really doesn't try and is without a doubt the worst of the sequels and was a waste of my time, the story was weak and the characters were lame.The team is sent to Moscow, Russia to help them out with the Russian Mofia and their crimes. The Russian Mofia is distributing video games and is brain washing the entire world with the record breaking sales they are making. But the team plans to go under cover and take down the idiot criminals who are beyond hard to believe that they could even spell let alone take over the world or security systems with their minds. Lasard must try to make sure the team can do this while trying not to embarrass the American cops and their reputations.Police Academy: Mission to Moscow, I wanted to trust this movie, I watched it with an open mind and am very disappointed. We only have Harris and Winslow to pick up the team with the laughs, but even they couldn't hold it together enough to make this movie funny. It's just trying too hard and was nothing without the old gang, it would have been so much cooler if they had the original cast back for the last movie, but I don't know if there were plans to make another Police Academy, but I'm glad they didn't. Police Academy: Mission to Moscow wasn't good, I wouldn't recommend it at all, it was lame and a sad ending to a funny series.1/10
The moment I saw the preview for Hancock, this just looked like the most ridicules movie that could be made, I was sure that it was going to flop or get horrendous reviews. But after talking to people who saw it, it was half/half of either they loved it or hated it, so I guess this was just a movie I had to see for myself. So I watched it yesterday, I am dumbfounded, I'm the half/half, I loved it and I hated it. I felt like the beginning was just silly and rushed, not to mention that the villain was just under developed and didn't have any depth to why he was so bad. But however, I did like the little twist they had, which I refuse to give away, even though I did predict it sadly, it's one of those things you'll have to see. But I also did enjoy the originality, it's not just a typical super hero movie with all the stereotypes, it was John Hancock(which by the way should've taken place in Chicago after it's famous building).John Hancock is a homeless bum who just has a bad attitude along with a horrible drinking problem, he also is different, he is a super hero. The only problem? He causes a lot of damage when he "saves the day" and doesn't care what people think. But when a failing advertiser, Ray Embroy, is saved by John, Ray offers John a chance to look good and be the ultimate super hero. But Ray's wife, Mary, isn't so excited and has a little secret about her and John. But Ray is determined and will make sure that Hancock is a great super hero for the whole city.Hancock is over all an alright film, it's not bad by any means, but I feel like it could have been so much more with a better script. Not to mention some of the camera angles were a little extreme, there were times where I thought the cameraman was on a tilt-a-whirl and I felt sick. But for the story I'll admit that it was original and fun at times, Will Smith is a good actor, I will always admit that, but it seems like his movies(which are always released around the fourth of July, you notice) have become like a love letter to him and how great he is. Hancock is worth the look, but I'd recommend the rental, it's just a notch under a great blockbuster.6/10
I had a feeling this was a movie that I would never be interested in seeing, but after such fantastic reviews from practically everyone I've met that saw this movie, I decided to just go ahead and see the movie and give it a fair chance. We have some very promising actors, but even the actors who are all Oscar winners didn't get into this movie, I know that I'm going to get a lot of hate for this, but this is a movie that they took in order to just get good reviews, that's it. It's one of those movies where you have to watch it a few times to fully understand unless you are a fan of shows like The West Wing, where the dialog is so out there, unless you know the history of Charlie Wilson, which I will admit I do not, you're not going to understand. It's like being at a party and you join a group of people who know each other and are talking about a past joke of their's and you have no idea what they are talking about.Even though there are some things that I don't understand, I'll do my best to give you the story. Charlie Wilson is a congressman who is pretty popular with others as well as the women. Everything in his life is just great, but when Joanne Herring tells him to take action on the war in Afghanistan, all the pain and suffering that is going on there, she asks Charlie to help fix. So Charlie does his best to fight the war, but he learns that support can also have it's down fall's as well.Charlie Wilson's War, I'm not going to totally bash it, because the acting and script is done very well, Tom, Phillip, and Julia, not to mention Amy Adams as well are terrific actors and click very well. This is just one of those movies that you'll have to trust your instincts on, because I was watching it with an open mind and still did not enjoy it, I was just bored. I feel bad saying that, I feel like a 12 year old saying it, but I'm just being honest. It's a film that only certain people will understand and appreciate, but for me it just sounded like Greek and I felt like I was 2 inches tall while watching it, because I consider myself intelligent, but I was so lost watching this movie.4/10
I remember seeing clips a few years back on From Dusk Till Dawn, just of Selma Hayek turning into a monster, so obviously I knew I missed out on a bunch of information so I skipped out on the movie. But I know it's mentioned quite a bit because of the Quentin Tarantino fans out there, so when I came across the film in Hollywood Video, I didn't hesitate. Also not to mention that we have a few stars in the film besides Quentin, we have George Clooney, Harvey Keitel, and Juliette Lewis. So I just watched the film and while I think the story had a complete turn around, we went from a hostage/robbers story to a vampire horror story. It happened so quickly that I was a bit out of it after the film, but at the same time I really enjoyed the action. It was unbelievable, I'm not just talking about the vampires alone, I'm just saying how the family knew automatically to use weapons. Well, there are a few things, but I'll explain in a minute.Seth and Richie are two brothers who are robbers and killers, they are on the run to Mexico. They kidnap a family with their motor home van and cross the border. There Seth wants to meet a friend that can get him started with the money that him and his brother robbed from a bank, they decide to meet at the local strip club that is open from dusk till dawn. There Seth, Richie, the family end up getting something a bit out of their league and what they expected, vampires, and they're hungry for some blood.The acting is alright, enough to get by as believable, I mean, don't get me wrong, the cast was awesome, but it was a bit of a question to me on the roles they took on. While the story is very cool and creative, like I said, it turns so quickly into something else and they also leave with questions. This wasn't Quentin's best work, but I liked this movie better than Jackie Brown. I would recommend this movie for horror fans, because I know every Quentin Tarantino fan has already seen this film. But it's a cool movie, just I know that it could have either ended better or answered a few more questions.7/10
I saw Superbad yesterday with my boyfriend, I have to say that I was absolutely not interested in seeing Superbad, it seemed like just a typical Revenge of the Nerds type of film that would probably have some lame jokes. But I wanted to see it with an open mind, so I thought just to let go and have fun. This also seemed like it would be a cult classic down the line somewhere. Superbad starts off as it would seem to be another American Pie type of film where it's nothing but sex jokes that could at times be a little obnoxious, I was giving up hope, but then Superbad quickly picked up and turned out to be overall a great movie that is sure to be another teen sex comedy classic.Seth and Evan are two high school boys who are about to go their separate ways after graduation. They are pretty much the losers of the school and are dying to get an awesome reputation as well as a couple of hot girls. Seth gets invited to his crush's party, but when he mentions his friend, Fogell, is getting a fake ID and now he is the one who has to get the liquor. Well, Fogell gets the ID, his name is now McLovin' and is supposedly 27 years old(even though he looks like he couldn't be more than 12 years old), he manages to get away with buying the liquor, but right at the worst moment, the place gets robbed and now he has two cops who just wanna party with him. In the mean time Seth and Evan are on their own and end up at a gangsta's party where they get in big trouble trying to get alcohol, but it's a question if they can make it to the party and still be the awesome guys that made the party a memorable one.Superbad is a great movie and one of the best comedies of the year, no doubt. McLovin' and the cops truly made this movie memorable and had such great chemistry. I really loved their scene where the cops want to "make it up to McLovin'" and drag him out of the party like he was a wild animal. You'll see what I mean when you see the film. The film starts off kind of stupid, but really warms up and ended up being a great film to watch. I can't wait for the DVD, I would recommend you seeing this film if you are looking for a great comedy.7/10
I wasn't looking for anything deep, I wasn't looking for anything serious, no Oscar winning actors, no award winning script, I just wanted an action movie, this summer we got Death Race, a movie where the script and characters are just never explored, but the action is non stop and so exciting. I don't know why, but we just need action movies like that and one of the things that I did enjoy about this was that it reminded me of those old grind house films that have quick editing and fast paced stories that are just awesome stories to watch because of the stunts. This is a different form of The Fast and The Furious, only just not with all the fancy gadgets which I like. Also, Jason Statham, this guy is just awesome in action movies, he makes such a great lead in any action role and is such an awesome tough guy that you don't want to mess with.Based off the 70's film "Death Race 2000", it's 2012, the economy is in bad shape, employment is down, but entertainment is up, especially in prison where racing has become the new gladiator fights. Jenson's wife is murdered and he is framed for it, landing him him in prison, where he is approached by the leader of the Death Race program, Hennessey, and she offers him to race for his freedom if he can make it out alive. But there's something a little deeper when it seems like he was put in prison on purpose so he could race.Death Race is just pure entertainment, it's nothing original, we don't really know the characters that well or what their motives are, but the reason why this movie is enjoyable is just the awesome action that is endless. I loved the editing, it made the race scenes that much more exciting. I would recommend this movie if you are looking for fun, like I said before we just need a pure action movie sometimes and Death Race is a perfect film on that level. I had a great time watching this movie and am looking forward to seeing it again for a good time.7/10
I wanna cry, I wanna gouge my eyes out, no! Better yet, I will gouge the eyes out of all the people who were involved in this trashy mess of a movie. I was babysitting and we were looking for something to watch on TV and Home Alone 4 was on, my cousin loved the first Home Alone and so do I, so we both thought that this might be fun to watch, that it would be a completely different story, instead, we have a really really really bad sequel. Not is it just a sequel, the kid is younger than Kevin McCallister in the first film, not only that, his family is reduced to two siblings, not only that, Marv is back and he's not only still an idiot, he's an idiot trying to be a genius. This is a sequel that is useless, has no point, in fact, should have never existed. The story is mediocre and a total waste, it was probably written by five year olds, no, wait, that's an insult towards five year olds.Kevin had another fight with his mom and goes over to his dad's house for the holiday's. His dad and new fiancée wanna give him a nice Christmas, but that's going to be hard since Marv is up to his new tricks with a new partner, his partner, Verna. Kevin of course must stop them, but no one will believe him and he has to do all the work on his own then out of no where his step mom becomes evil. But overcoming her and the "villains" is going to be really easy considering how much of bumbling mumbling morons they are.This isn't a movie, it's not a family movie, this is just a sad excuse of a story. This was just a waste of a sequel and anyone who was involved in it should seriously stop taking drugs because they had to be doing drugs or were very much starving since this story is just so bad. Believe the reviews here on IMDb, this is a Kraft Macaroni and Cheese commercial and should be banned and only shown during Halloween. The acting is horrendous, the story is horrifying, and the movie is just down right terrifying, so sad, I want my 90 minutes back! I just want to at least stop crying, is that too much to ask? I think not.1/10
OK, now my problem with Halloween(2007) is this is a film that DID NOT need to be remade. Halloween('70's) was absolutely perfect in every aspect, in my opinion, it's the scariest movie of all time. But when I heard that Rob Zombie was on to direct this movie, I actually thought for a minute there was a possibility this may be a good remake. I saw it this morning at the theater, I am in absolute disgust. Just it's not like he just re-made the movie into his own idea, no, he took some of John Carpenter's excellent ideas and just made them into crap. Now I'm separating this from the original, Halloween(2007) was actually by itself a bad film. Which really disappointed me since The Devil's Rejects was done so well, this was just a typical stupid unoriginal slasher movie. Now, Rob had a good idea where he developed Michael's character in the beginning, where we had a better idea on why he became Michael Myers. But after that, everything went downhill, because Rob just rushed all the other IMPORTANT characters, so they got no development what-so-ever.Mike Myers is a tormented kid, his mom is a stripper, his step dad is an alcoholic jerk, his big sister treats him bad, and he is picked on at school. But he kills small animals as well, leading him to go onto bigger things, like humans. He massacres his family, excluding his mom and his baby sister, he is taken to a mental institution and escapes 15 years later and is going after Laurie, his baby sister who is now grown up and is preparing her and her friends for a night of hell.The acting on the teenage girl's parts was just horrendous, like extremely bad, I was actually hoping for them to get killed, how sad was that? Laurie was just a whiny little priss, not at all likable like Jamie's performance, same with the other two girls, they couldn't live up to the other performances. These girls were just annoying, not likable at all, while the other actresses at least had that going for them and made them likable vicitims. But it just seemed like they wanted their 15 minutes or some kind of big break, because it didn't even take them 10 minutes to take their tops off. On a movie on it's own, it's just too unoriginal and I'm disappointed in Rob because I thought he was really improving. Comparison to the original Halloween, perhaps Rob should have read the tag line THE ONE, THE ONLY, HALLOWEEN, because this was a huge slap to John Carpenter's face on his brilliant classic.2/10
I had a small feeling about Nick and Norah's Infinite Playlist that it was going to be a decent hit, with the popularity of Juno, not to compare, but this movie had similarities. This movie has my main pet peeve with the younger generation of today, the people who are the "I heard this band before you did so I have better taste than you do" type of mentality. The independent rock music movies are just not my thing, so I wasn't too excited to see this movie, but when some friends invited me to go see it with them, I had low expectations and actually ended up having a great time watching Nick and Norah's Infinite Playlist. It's honestly one of the better comedies that is out in theaters right now, although I have to admit I feel so dirty watching all these horny teenage girls, I'm a girl, and it just made me feel uncomfortable, this is how teenagers act? Scary; anyways, the story is really fun and gives you a great time laughing.Nick is having a hard time after his rough break up with super slutty Tris, he continues to mix CD's for her that her fellow student, Norah listens too and enjoys it. By chance Norah meets Nick not knowing that it's Tris's ex and says that he's her boyfriend to show Tris that she's no prude. But when Norah learns that Nick is the ex, Nick also won't shut up about Tris, but they find out throughout the night that maybe they're musical soul mates and can really dig each other's vibe. But in the mean time with their crazy friends, they try to find their favorite band that is hidden in New York.Nick and Norah's Infinite Playlist is definitely worth the look, I would say that it's worth full price. The only thing I have a problem with is our leading man, Michael Cera, this guy is a nice actor, but he hasn't really expanded himself into different roles, he's been playing the same character since Superbad to be honest. But I'm seeing Kat Dennings more and more, I'm enjoying her presence on screen, she's very lovely and has potential. But the person who definitely stole the show was Norah's drunk friend, Caroline played by Ari Graynor, she was just beyond hilarious and stole all the laughs. Nick and Norah's Infinite Playlist is a great new teen comedy, though I really hope teenagers don't act like this... if they do... oh, I'm praying that our future is going to be alright.7/10
Jack Black and Michael Cera playing themselves, yeah, where was that even considered funny? Now I absolutely adore these actors, Michael was a great choice in Superbad and Juno and Jack Black has proved he can do great comedy like Tropic Thunder and a good dramatic role like King Kong, even a more calm character like he played in The Holiday. But the main problem? They have no chemistry! You have this wild outgoing maniac who is eating poop(eeeew!) and the calm awkward overly shy nerd who pees on himself(eeew!) and what do you have? Every elementary school joke that could be put into a movie, Year One could have been written by a five year old and proves that top list actors will do anything for those millions that they make.Jack Black and Michael Cera headline Harold Ramis' Biblical comedy about a pair of misfit hunter-gatherers who embark on a wild journey through the ancient world after being banished from their primitive village. Zed and Oh may lack in the skills that their chieftain is looking for, but they have plans to make it big. Zed has a gut feeling that God has "chosen" him, and so he leads his buddy on a trip through the unknown countryside in search of bigger and better things, bumping into several weird characters along the way -- like a feuding pair of brothers named Cain and Abel. Unfortunately, their quest for greatness hits a few snags, like being sold into slavery, and later becoming the object of interest to a very amorous, very hairy high priest in the opulent city of Sodom.You have to understand, I wanted to love this movie, from the minute that I saw the trailer, I thought this was going to be such a great movie, but once again they showed all the funny parts in the trailer. During the movie I fell asleep and my boyfriend tried to wake me up and I said "OMG, I was dreaming that I was watching this movie where Jack Black and Michael Cera think that they're funny oh, no, just let me sleep". Seriously, this movie was beyond painfully bad, I don't understand how anybody could find this kind of humor funny. Year One has everything that should equal a good comedy and that was the funny cast, but thanks to the bad direction and awful concept, Year One falls completely flat. Stay as far away from this trash as you can, this film should be used only to torture possible terrorists into telling the US where they hide their nuclear weapons.1/10
Yes! I cannot believe I have now seen all the Harry Potter films, at least for now ;). Well after watching the last four Harry Potter films, I was definitely interested in seeing where the story would lead us next. The Order of Phoenix was absolutely astonishing and without a doubt the best Harry Potter yet. See, my friends who read the books didn't get much of a kick out it like I did, but I think they were just comparing too much book to movie. Who knows? After reading the books, I'm sure I'd be like that too, but movie wise I thought this was a great movie to watch and a terrific film for the summer.Harry is having extreme nightmares ever since the death of his fellow classmate, he knows Veldemort is on the loose and will do anything to stop him. But at Hogwarts no one believes him, especially the newest addition the professors, Delorus Umbridge, and this woman is here to make student's lives an absolute night mare. In the mean time Voldemort has plans for Harry and must get his hands on a prophecy that Harry has. Harry gathers classmates that finally believe him about Voldemort and join into an army that will end in the ultimate battle between good and evil.The Order of Phoenix is a roller coaster ride of action and a great story. The actors were terrific and the movie had great effects with the best story yet. I cannot wait for the next Harry Potter film, I admit it, I'm hooked. I can't wait to start reading the books, I bought them today, I guess I'm on the band wagon of the Harry Potter fans, if you can't be them, join them, lol.9/10
Psycho 3 is one of those "it's not as bad as you think" type of movies, again, from what I was expecting, I thought it was going to be trash. But I bought the triple feature DVD pack of the Psycho sequels, I watched Psycho 3 last night, it wasn't that bad. The only complaint I have is that it felt a little too Friday the 13th to me, a little too slasher. From the first Psycho, we had more left to the imagination and a little more thriller/mystery, Psycho 3 doesn't use that same formula, but it still leaves you in chills. It is almost kind of a tribute in some of the shots and lines from the original, I think that is thanks to Anothony Perkins, it was interesting to see him direct the film, not the worst I've seen for a horror sequel, but the story itself is alright.Norman is back in business, running the Bates Motel, he needs a helping hand, so Duane Duke, musician bum, is his new assistant manager. When a former nun, Maureen, comes to stay in the motel, she reminds Norman of Marian Craine, he falls for her. But it's a question if his mother will let him be with Maureen. Duane is also bringing problems back into Norman's killing spree of bar fly's and a homecoming party.Psycho 3 is worth the look, believe me, when you've seen so many horror sequels that were just beyond horrible, this was a breathe of fresh air. The story does keep your interest, if you are into blood and gore, you will not be disappointed on that note. But I'm looking at this as to what should be a tribute to the first film, the slitting of the throat to me wasn't Norman Bates. But if you want to see the sequel, I wouldn't hold you back, the sequel is worth the watch if you are curious about the sequels, just this was a little too bloody for my tastes.4/10
Before Little Children, before American Beauty, there was Blue Velvet, and American masterpiece of it's time. I came across this movie a couple years ago, but I wasn't too sure about it, but it was recommended in my 1001 movies you must see before you die book. Not to mention that I like Dennis Hopper, so when I noticed that he was in this movie, I got a little more excited to pick it up. In some ways I'm glad I waited to see Blue Velvet, just because I don't think I could have appreciated it like I do since I'm a little older. While I do think it's a bit over rated than what I was led on to believe; this was still a very memorizing film with incredible performances. The story is so dark and disturbing, just proving that the most perfect little town has it's very dark and scary secrets.Jeffrey has come home to his very sweet little home where it is on the bound of leave it to beaver style of families and friends. But unfortunately, his father had a heart attack and is in the hospital, so Jeffrey is left on his own, while he's walking home from the hospital, he comes across a disembodied human ear, brings it to the local detective. He meets the detective's daughter, Sandy, and together they think they can solve this crime. It leads them to a woman, Dorothy, who is a singer, and makes Jeffrey into her lover, but he learns that a messed up druggie, Frank, has her in a deep hold of dark secrets and leads him into a life that he never expected.Blue Velvet was the silent success of 1986, not to mention a first of it's kind for movies. It was kinda like one of those "look closer" films, that was pretty rare for it's time. If you enjoyed American Beauty or Little Children, I would highly recommend this movie without hesitation. The acting and whole look of the story was so memorizing. The only thing was that the story did work, but it still had an empty feeling at the end for me. I just felt like it could have had a better introduction. But over all the film picked up and this is a good one, folks.8/10
I was going through my mom's movies and I came across The American President, I love Michael Douglas and Annette Benning, so I figured I could give this a shot. So I watched it this afternoon and over all, I think it was a good movie, it was definitely a different concept. We got to see our president's more human side, he's our leader, but he's also a person as well. What would it be like to have a president who wants to date someone? I thought that this is a pretty well written film, I'm not really into political films, but this story worked very well and was mature as well. Michael Douglas and Annette Benning were just beautiful together and had great chemistry on screen. Michael held himself well as the president of the United States, he brought a more sensitive side to the character. We have also a great supporting cast like Michael J. Fox, Richard Dreyfuss, and Martin Sheen who made the story very believable.President Andrew Shepherd is very loved by his people, the next election seems like and open and shut competition since everyone loves him. But his wife passed three years prior and he's raising his daughter as well as having to be the president of our country. When he meets with a lobbyist who represents the Global Warming Commity, her name is Sydney, and immediately, they are attracted to each other. But when election time comes up, his opposing canidate is hitting him hard as well as the American people for his personal life.The American President is worth the look, it's a nice movie that gives a different look into the president. But it was a sweet story and the acting was very good, of course the film has little flaws here and there, but they're looked over. Michael is very charismatic on screen, with Rob Reiner as the director, you could never go wrong. I was expecting a little comedy since this was in the genre of romantic comedies, but maybe I don't have that certain sense of humor. But it's good movie, I do recommend if you get the chance to watch it, it's a sweet story.7/10
Inglourious Basterds, Quentin Tarantino's new motion picture, he's established very much as a great director and writer in Hollywood. He has a ton of fans and everyone here on IMDb that I know of complain constantly how Pulp Fiction was robbed of best picture, still a puzzler to me, but I'd say that I'm a fan too over all. I own most of his work and think that he's a very talented man. He hasn't really come out with anything new for a few years excluding Grindhouse, Kill Bill Vol. 2 was his last film that he directed. I was actually kind of disappointed with that film, now I loved Death Proof, but I know that was not his baby. With Inglourious Basterds I think we were all going through the same thing as that Quentin is back to doing what he does best, writing great material as directing it with a unique style and giving the audience so much entertainment. Does he do that with Inglourious Basterds; yes. The film has it's flaws, it's not his great masterpiece or opus since Kill Bill Vol. 1 or even Pulp Fiction, but this film is hella entertaining and Tarantino picks a terrific cast of actors to bring this crazy "effed" up version of what Quentin thinks should have happened during WWII.Set in an alternate history of WWII in which the entire top leadership of Nazi Germany, namely Hitler, Göring, Goebbels and Bormann attend a film premiere in Paris celebrating the exploits of a German sniper who had managed to kill 300 American soldiers in Italy over four days and single handedly hold the town he was occupying. Tracking the separate attempts to kill Hitler by two disparate forces, one being the "Basterds", a motley crew of Jewish American soldiers out for revenge against the Nazis. The Basterds have a modus operandi whereby each man must cut off the scalps of dead Nazi soldiers, with orders to get 100 scalps each. The Basterds allow one German soldier to survive each incident so as to spread the news of the terror of their attacks. However, the Basterds carve a swastika into the forehead of that German so that they cannot hide or forget that they were a Nazi. The other force concerns Shosanna, the only survivor of a Jewish family killed by a Nazi colonel nicknamed "The Jew Hunter". Shosanna then plots her own revenge on the Nazis. The Basterds and Shosanna remain unaware of each other thought they both have set their sights on revenging all Jews and destroying the Nazi party.Inglourious Basterds is one of the better films I've seen in 2009, the writing, direction and acting(in particular a knock out of the ball park performance by Christoph Waltz) made Inglourious Basterds into a very good movie. I only have 2 complaints, pretty minor but I feel like as much as I admire Quentin's style of movie making it seems like he's still trying hard to impress with his Making a Movie 101. He's got great style, he needs to explore a little more and push the edge. Also I love Quentin's dialogue, we know this man can write, he's probably the best writer in Hollywood and the very first scene cements how brilliant his writing is. But the movie is very long, 153 minutes, I just felt like a couple of scenes dragged on a little too much, I know this is his style but for this type of a film I think he could have done different. But he entertains where it counts and this ending was just the most insane ending I've seen in a film for a while. He made an interesting choice in casting Eli Roth, who is the director of Hostel and Cabin Fever, he just looked so hyped to be in this movie, but over all Roth pulls his weight. Pitt who you think would be in 95% of the movie is actually not as big of a role as I expected but he barely holds up a candle to Waltz's performance, but the two played off each other and were great. Diane Krueger also delivers in a great performance with Mélanie Laurent as a strong female who has a very menacing act to follow. I would recommend Inglourious Basterds for a matinée show, like I said, it's not Tarantino's masterpiece, but it's a great way to get back into the big screen with a splash.8/10
The Cenobites are back to bring more hell on Earth! So a few years ago I rented Hellraiser, from the clips that I saw it seemed more than promising and it sure was a great horror movie. Clive Barker has the wildest imagination and goes deep into the nightmares that we have and puts them on screen. I give him a lot of credit for putting displeasing images on the big screen, as unsettling as the images are they made for a great horror movie and created a terrifying icon in Pinhead. I don't know why I waited so long to see the sequels, maybe I didn't have the opportunity but I did find them cheap at the store the other day and without hesitation bought them. So I watched Hellbound Hellraiser 2 and while it's definitely not strong in the plot like the first film was, the visuals are done with such love and imagination we get a horror movie that doesn't hold back on making you squirm.Kirsty wakes in the psychiatric hospital, where she is questioned about the events leading up to the destruction of her home, which involved her stepmother, Julia, and a bloody mattress. Kirsty tells the police that her uncle, Frank, opened a puzzle box to an alternate dimension populated by monsters named Cenobites who torture human quarry for sadomasochistic purposes. The story amazes the detectives, who are incredulous and take the bloody mattress as evidence. Kirsty is turned over to Dr. Channard and his assistant, Kyle, who instantly becomes smitten with Kirsty. That night, Kirsty befriends another patient, Tiffany, a semi-catatonic young girl with an incredible skill for solving puzzles. Later, in her room, Kirsty finds a message written in blood stating "I AM IN HELL. HELP ME." Believing it was sent by her father, Kirsty tells her story to Kyle, who encourages her to tell Channard about the Cenobites. Now with Kyle and Tiffany's help, Kirsty wants to get her father back from the sadistic Cenobites and must confront them once again.My main complaint about the film is that the plot isn't too well constructed. This was definitely meant more to upset the stomach than challenge the mind. That's the thing I admire about the first film, it was very gory but had a very strong plot and something that hadn't been done before. Why Kirsty is so quick to go back to the Cenobites was crazy to me, she thinks her father is in Hell, but believes it so fast. I would have questioned if I was her if it was due to my trauma or if this really was happening? Also SPOILER: when Tiffany thinks that Julia is helping her in the end, but she pulls the skin off and it reveals that it was Kirsty and she had gotten in Julia's skin in order to trick the bad guy, how did she get in that skin so quickly and so well? Movie magic as usual. Also that Kirsty shows Pinhead an old picture of what he used to look like as a human and we have an Oprah moment where he's touched, I don't like Pinhead to be touched, I want him to be bad! But Dr. Channard makes for a great villain, he's so evil that he destroys the other Cenobites within a snap! His make up was terrific as well and very haunting. The visuals were great and the story was still very spooky. I would recommend it over all, it's a film that doesn't hold up for the story but as a continuation from the first film, it's worth the look.7/10
Righteous Kill is one of those films that a lot of people have just been looking forward too because it has two of the greatest actors of our generation, Robert DeNiro and Al Pacino. I must add how I love in a lot of the TV ad's they're saying this is their first film together, true, it's the first time they are real co-stars together, but they've had two films already. Anyways, back onto the film, Robert and Al are both incredible actors, we know that, Robert is actually my favorite actor, so naturally I was looking forward to seeing this movie, I hate to say this, oh, man, I hate to say this, but this film was an utter disappointment. I'm not saying this was a bad movie, but this was a sad and very predictable thriller that could have been done with more average actors, Al and Robert are above this script and don't pull in their best performances due to that. The story is very mediocre compared to some of these terrific actors who looked so bored throughout the move.Turk and Rooster are partners on the police force, having experienced over 30 years of constant bad guys going free, seeing the innocent's blood shed, and all the injustice in the world, they've almost lost it. Suddenly, there are murders involving the criminals they have arrested, along with younger officers, they try to figure out what is going on, but when one of the cops brings up that it might be a vigilante situation, Turk and Rooster are hesitant. Maybe they're hiding some secrets of their own.Righteous Kill, don't get me wrong, it's worth the look, especially to see these cinematic legends on screen together, but like I said, for the script they were given, this was way too average and they are above it. I even hate to say it, this was very predictable if you've seen a lot of these thriller movies of today. Not to mention, I think Al Pacino, this must have been his third movie where he has worn that same leather jacket, I mean is it just me, or does anyone else notice this? Over all, it's not a bad movie, but it could have just been done with average actors, instead of all the hype that has been around it because of the actors. Just don't be fooled, it's a typical thriller, nothing special, I suggest waiting for the rental.6/10
Once upon a time, in a magical world we like to call the 1980's, Eddie Murphy was on top of his game, not only was he on top, he was actually funny! He made comedy after comedy after comedy of non stop laughs and nothing seemed like it could stop him; then the world of the 1990's came, as much as we hoped for Eddie, it seemed like he had more mediocre comedies; then the new millennium, oh, boy, his world has shattered since then. He was very lucky to have an Oscar nomination with Dream Girls, yet continued to release bad movies such as Daddy Day Care and the disaster that was Norbit, now we have Meet Dave, which would've been a good bad movie with unknown actors, but since we have well known actors, you can't help but feel bad for them, but Eddie Murphy just keeps making mistakes after mistakes and I'm just wondering what the heck was he on to think this was the script that will save his career, because I want whatever he's taking since he's in a La-La land right now.I feel silly telling you the "plot", but I'm going to try to make it work. Dave is an alien who has crashed into Planet Earth, he has little people inside him who control his movements and voice. Dave is on a mission to gather all of the Earth's water and bring it back to his home planet. But when he meets a single mother, Gina, she shows him a good time in New York City and all of a sudden the little people wanna stay on Planet Earth. But one little alien named Agent number 2 is planning on succeeding at the mission and take over, yeah, that's the plot.I work at a movie theater so I get to see movies for free, the way I figure it is even if a movie looks bad, just give it a shot, it may not be as bad as it seems. Now granted, this movie is one step above Norbit, that's the relief, but the major problem here is, this movie isn't even good for the kids, it insults everyone's intelligence. Now I love movies, I also have an extremely open mind and will say if a movie was fun and to give it a shot, but Eddie Murphy, we need to save him if he can't save himself, his intervention must be the biggest movie flop in the world, well, I think he's succeeding with Meet Dave. Meet Dave has 2 funny moments, then the rest of the script could have been written by 5 year old. I wouldn't recommend this, the only thing it wasted was my time.2/10
I was kinda looking forward to seeing You've Got Mail, because I know there were so many parodies and it is a film that over all is pretty well mentioned in a conversation of cinema. Tom and Meg would seem like a good combination for a romantic comedy, but to be honest, I wasn't all that impressed by their performances or the story itself. It seemed to dull and predictable, you know? Maybe it was just me, but it couldn't have been, because I was very happy to see this movie when I slipped it into the DVD player this morning! See what I mean? Joe and Kathleen have been e-mailing each other and having an internet romance, only they don't get personal, to where they know each other's real names or business. Kathleen works at a little bookstore where the clerks know their work and really help their customers, Joe becomes the lead manager of a new huge discount book store down the street that might destroy Kathleen's business. They fight face to face not knowing that they truly love each other through these love letters online.You can pretty much guess how the plot goes, because it is a typical romantic comedy. It isn't me either, I had asked my mom and friend who both saw this movie what they thought, and they said that it was over rated, I completely agree. It was a waste of two terrific actor's talents and the story was just nothing, it didn't work. I couldn't even call this a romantic comedy, because there wasn't any funny moments, so I'm not understanding the 6.1 rating on IMDb.2/10
When I first saw the trailer for The Other Boleyn Girl, I have to admit, it looked good, but like it wasn't accurate. I am a huge history buff, especially in the time of England's dark ages, I am fairly familiar with the Boleyn sisters and their affections for King Henry, Anne being the second wife to be executed for committing adultery and not birthing a son heir to the thrown, her life was absolutely horrific if you think about how hard it was to be a woman in this era. I was a little scared that they wouldn't portray her well in this film, but my mom and I saw The Other Boleyn Girl today and even though I'm not fully satisfied with the portrayal of Anne, the movie is still very good. The story has a Hollywood layer to give the story a little more "oomph" sort of speak, like most other pictures, but The Other Boleyn Girl is still a very decent movie.The Boleyn has quite a family, a mother, father, a son, and two daughters. After failing at several attempts for Queen Catherine to have a son heir to King Henry's thrown, he wishes for a mistress. Sir Thomas Boleyn offers his daughter, Anne, but when King Henry sees Thomas's other daughter, Mary, he is smitten with her and wants her as his mistress. She gives birth to a son, but they are not married and she is looked down upon. Anne is given a second chance to come back after a marriage that was not granted and then annulled, but King Henry then falls for her and wishes her to give herself to him, but she puts up a fight and tells him not until she assumes the crown and to be his wife. But she fails to give him a son, her life depends on it as well sadly.The true story of Anne Boleyn is very sad, but extremely interesting, I wouldn't recommend the book, just go for a regular history book when it comes to this story. But for the movie, The Other Boleyn Girl, I liked it, it had good acting, beautiful costumes and sets, and a very good story. If you are looking for a history lesson, this is not the film for you, but if you are looking for a good movie, then watch it. Just like the film "Elizabeth", they make the story a little more juicy, it's for the sake of some audience members who don't understand why England has the system it does, but it still makes for good drama.7/10
My theater that I work at is weird, we always get an independent film way after it's actual release date, but we got Rachel Getting Married, I had absolutely no idea what this was about, but after work I had a little time, so I decided to go ahead and check it out. I thought it was going to be a story about Anne Hathaway getting married and probably about her wacky family that drives her insane, but it's actually complete opposite. This is one of the most depressing movies I have seen this year, but I think the reason why it got to me is because I have a family member who is exactly like Kym, had a strong drug addiction, made a heavy mistake causing our family a lot of grief, and then they got clean and expected everything to go back to normal, so this movie just got to me and went underneath my skin.Kym is a recovering drug addict who has just come out of rehab to go home with her dad, her sister, Rachel, is getting married, so this should be a happy time. Only Kym doesn't realize after all the pain she's caused, some of the family is still shook up. While Kym was high, her parents put her in charge of her baby brother and while she was driving with him, they crashed and he was killed, so now she must deal with the pain of being responsible for that, but a family who is having a hard time taking her back in. She's doing as best as she can with her sister who is trying to forgive her, but doesn't realize what kind of a disease Kym had to deal with in addiction.Rachel Getting Married is more of a character piece for sure, it's a study of a recovering addict and the pains and regrets they must have. Anne Hathaway pulls in a killer performance that I wouldn't be surprised if she got nominated for best actress, she has come such a long way from The Princess Diaries and has proved herself to be more than a pretty face, she had such dedication to this role and makes it shine on screen. All the actors were great because from an outside viewer, you might feel forced to take sides, but you realize in this horrific situation, it's a gray area. Rachel Getting Married isn't for everyone, but for me, it hit home and was a very powerful film and held itself very well.7/10
Back in 2007, I went to Hollywood Video to rent some movies, I came across a DVD case marked Death at a Funeral, never heard of it, but saw that Frank Oz had directed it so not even knowing what it was about, I decided to give it a shot. I don't think I had such a great time laughing at this wacky dark British comedy and was hoping that eventually this would become a kind of cult classic in America. So a few weeks ago while I was at the theater, I saw a poster for Death at a Funeral and thought "that sounds awfully familiar", going into the movie theater, there is the trailer playing for it. Again I said "This looks really Oh My" and my jaw dropped. I couldn't believe that a film that hadn't even aged 3 years was already remade with an American cast. From what I was reading, Chris Rock saw Death at a Funeral and loved it and wanted to do his own version. At first I just refused to see this because in my opinion, the original wasn't given a fair enough chance yet to be seen by a wider range of people, give it a little more time. But my boyfriend really wanted to see the remake, not even knowing about the original until I told him about it, but he asked that I have an open mind if I thought the first one was so funny. After thinking about it, he was right, if I loved the first one, why not give the remake a fair chance? Conclusions: the film was just alright.Aaron has prepared for the funeral of his father in his home that he shares with his mother and wife. Not seeing family often, this is the one opportunity he has to see everyone. Aaron envies his brother Ryan, because Ryan is a successful writer, which Aaron wants to be but has yet to have his novel published. Elaine and her fiancée Oscar are on their way to pick up her brother Jeff before heading to the funeral. To ease Oscar's nerves, she gives him what she believes is Valium. Jeff later reveals to Elaine that it's not actually Valium, but a hallucinogenic drug. Chaos ensues when Oscar hallucinates that the coffin is moving and he knocks it over which pushes the body out the coffin which freaks out the guest. Aaron is approached by an unknown guest who happens to be a midget named Frank, who reveals himself to be the secret gay lover of his deceased father. Frank shows Aaron photos as proof and threatens to reveal them to Aaron's mother unless he is paid $30,000. To protect their father's reputation, they try to figure out something while this insane day continues on while still trying to grieve for their father's death.I don't know if it was just because I saw the original and knew what to expect, because I really didn't laugh out loud. A couple of things bothered me, one being, I don't know how to say this without sounding wrong so I'm so sorry if this sounds offensive to everyone, but one of the reasons being that the first film was such a blast is because most British people are very introverted. To see something shocking like that kind of a day was really funny and to watch their reactions was just great. Now with an outspoken black family, I knew what to expect and how they would react. Also how they were trying to be politically correct, I understand in some way, but when they see a midget walk into the funeral, they constantly refer to him "the man in the leather jacket" or "the guy we don't know", it was kind of odd that they really didn't mention his height. James Mardsen who played Oscar on the hallucinogenic drug, he was funny, but a little too over the top funny. His performance felt more forced while the original, Simon(the original character's name) acted more realistically as he based his performance on past experiences of getting high. Mardsen will get laughs, but he does get a little too silly at times. A few things were good about the film though, I surprisingly didn't mind Martin Lawrence in this movie, he normally gets on my nerves very easily. He was a little more played down and made his performance more tolerable. Danny Glover did steal the movie as he's possibly the most realistic character in the story, we all have that extremely grumpy old person in our family that drives us nuts. Over all though, I'd say stick with the original, it is a really great movie, but this one isn't a toss out, just wait for the rental on it.5/10
When I first saw the trailer for Drillbit Taylor, I thought it actually looked like fun and would be a cool movie, but I decided to save the money and wait for the rental on it, because it was getting some bad reviews. So I did rent it, watched it last night, I'm actually glad I waited for the rental because while I didn't hate the movie, I wasn't a big fan of it. I think because the story was just beyond unrealistic, I know it's a comedy, and I always do lighten up for a movie, but this just seemed ridicules. These boys who are getting picked on, I mean, they're not just getting picked on they're are getting brutally humiliated and somehow no one notices? Not to mention that a homeless guy can just walk into a school wearing a tie and he is assumed to be a substitute and no one asks questions? This script must have been written by someone who was drunk.Three kids at school are getting brutally picked on by two bullies, they're getting hit constantly, being made fun of, getting stuffed into trophy cabinets, and even getting hung from doors; they've had it, they decide to hire a body guard to protect them. They meet Drillbit Taylor, an actual homeless guy who is trying to get to Canada, so he's ripping off these kids in any way he can to get there, but he promises them that he's a great body guard and will teach them how to fight. Of course madness ensues, he ends up liking the kids, the story speaks for itself, I'm sorry.The movie is unoriginal, the comedy is alright, the actors, I wasn't impressed with the casting. I just feel like this movie could have been so much more, it just seems so beyond insane to me to believe a lot of these situations. Not to mention, the bully, he was kinda puny, and I was supposed to believe him as a bully who can kick anyone's butt? I know that everyone is going to tell me to lighten up with this movie, but honestly, I feel like it did waste my time, it was predictable and not comedy gold, I wouldn't really recommend it to anyone to be honest.3/10
So when I first saw the trailer for Obsessed, I have to admit I was curious to see this, even though the "fatal attraction" story has been used five million times before, it's always interesting to see what the new fresh writer is going to do with it. Obsessed could have been so much more and offered a lot to the table but instead turned out to be a Lifetime movie of the week. There are so many problems with this movie, it's not even funny... oh, wait actually it was, which I'll explain in a minute. But trust me when I say that this movie had me laughing so hard. Now, I don't want to sound strange or wrong, I'm a white woman and even I found this movie not only to be sexist, but racist as well. We have a black family who actually are very successful, well bred, beautiful, smart and nice people, but somehow Beyonce turns ghetto in the end. This movie needs so much work, it's honestly ridicules, let me tell you about the story before I tell you all that's wrong with it.Derek Charles is the Executive Vice President of Gage Bendix and has resulted in a recent promotion. He is happily married to his wife, Sharon, with a son, Kyle. However, when a new temp, Lisa begins to flirt with him. Lisa eventually attempts to seduce him, but he repeatedly rejects her advances. Lisa becomes obsessed and begins to manipulate Derek and Sharon's relationship, eventually becoming violent. Lisa fakes a suicide in Derek's hotel room while he is on a business trip. Meanwhile, Detective Reese interrogates Lisa, who lies about her relationship with Derek. While Derek and Sharon are out, Lisa goes to their home and convinces the babysitter to let her in, eventually escaping with Kyle while the babysitter is distracted. Derek goes to the car, intending to pursue Lisa, and finds Kyle in the backseat with lipstick from Lisa on his forehead. They set up a home alarm system, but at this point nothing is going to stop Lisa from getting what she wants.This is one of the worst movies of the year; why? I never really found Ali Larter to be that threatening, everything happened so fast with her obsession, I didn't get her motive or history on why she might possibly be obsessed with this man. Idris Elba who plays the husband, Derek, is completely whipped. Now granted I know they were trying to make him into a nice husband, but did they go far or what? This man sent flowers to his wife every week, isn't allowed to go to a basketball game with a friend, is not allowed to have female assistants, pretty much hide in the corner at the company Christmas party so his wife won't jump on him at home. Beyonce Knowles, who plays his wife, Sharon, I had no sympathy for her character what-so-ever. This woman has major jealousy issues and we never know why, she mentions that he once was a player up till he met her, but it's never indicated that he ever cheated on her, so why in the heck is she so incredibly jealous? Also when she finds out that Lisa attempted suicide in Derek's bed, she won't even hear his side of the story, not only that, the house he paid for, she throws him out for THREE MONTHS! God, I want know what happens to him if he doesn't do the dishes, does he have to sleep in the back yard? I have to talk about the ending, I'm sorry, so if I haven't already spoiled the movie enough don't read on.The ending: we go from the story being about Derek and this crazy woman who has insane fantasies about them having an affair... stepping in the right direction. But then all of a sudden, Lisa breaks into their home and lays herself in their bed and Sharon, the wife, catches her, instead of being rational and calling the police, it goes into "it's all about Beyonce" mode and she's shouting out one liners just to please the audience. The girls take the ultimate beating and somehow are still able to land on their feet, for God's sake they have 105 lb. Ali Larter swinging a two by four at Beyonce! Then after Sharon kills Lisa, she walks out of the house all bloody and the detective and husband come, as he holds her we pause on Beyonce's face while her song is playing... hmm, subtle on the promotion there, she's a secondary character for goodness's sake! Also one other thing I have to spoil is that Lisa puts a roofie in Derek's drink and seduces him in some way... what was the purpose of this scene? It never comes up again or had any purpose, if it's supposed to be threatening, not so much. The detective was also a stupid addition to the story, she is the most incompetent detective ever. Just everything about this movie didn't work, pointless characters, no backrounds, no thrills, chills or suspense, save your money.2/10
When I saw Alien vs. Predator a few years ago, I have to say as stupid as a sequel it was, it was still somewhat enjoyable. Now, there are unfortunately a shortage of good movies out in the theater lately, so my boyfriend and I decided to just go ahead and see what AVPR: Aliens vs Predator - Requiem was about. So we saw it a couple nights ago and I have to say that there was absolutely nothing thrilling about this horror sequel. It took a completely different turn from the first AVP movie, it's not a bad idea that they took Alien and Predator and put them in the up class suburbs, but from the idea of the first one explaining their reasons for existing, this was just an average and predictable horror sequel. Not to mention a story that keeps introducing new characters every scene where I wasn't sure who to keep in mind on who was the main character and why, so I couldn't really keep up with the story.From what I've gathered, of course the Predator and the Alien are up in space having to deal with the stuff of typical sit com neighbors, they're just beating the lights out of each other and they decide to why not? Go ahead and take it out on some Earthlings. So they crash and Alien is taking over the suburbia utopia. But teenagers, including a troubled couple who look like Ken and Barbie, a female marine and her daughter, among others, are going to make sure to kick some space butt, that is if the predator doesn't get there first. Because he is ticked off at the Alien, I guess for starting the party without him, lol, just kidding, actually for killing some of his friends.AVPR: Aliens vs Predator - Requiem isn't the worst movie by any standards, it's still pretty cool with a lot of the visual effects and the fight sequences between Alien and Predator are so cool to watch. Like the first sequel of Alien vs. Predator, the cast is the thing that ruins the film and just seems like they were not well developed, I know it's horror, but the original Alien and Predator films had characters, that you cared about and wanted to win. But it was a semi-decent sequel that I would say is worth a look for some fun, especially for Ken and Barbie's sake.4/10
Billy Madison, this is the film that supposedly gave Adam Sandler his huge break in Hollywood along with Happy Gilmore. Now I loved Happy Gilmore and my sister asked me if I ever saw Billy Madison and I said no, and she just looked at me with shock and said that if I liked Happy Gilmore that I would love Billy Madison. So I rented it yesterday and watched it this morning, I admit this was a fun story and had some funny moments, but for the most part I think that this is a pretty over rated comedy. There were just some jokes that either went too far or were to immature for my taste, but then again, it's Adam Sandler, so I'm not making that big of a deal. The story though was actually a clever one, who hasn't thought of what it would be like to go through school again at a grown up age? Billy Madison is the son of hotel tycoon millionaire, Brian Madison, and Billy is someone who you wouldn't call the smartest tool in the box. He sees imaginary penguins, leaves dog feces out on his neighbor's porch, and still talks gibberish. Now he's supposed to be a grown man, but Brian knows his life isn't going to last very long, and that he needs a grown up like his associate, Eric, to take over the hotels. But Billy convinces his dad that if he can go through all the grades, 1-12, one more time and pass, that he can take over the hotels. Brian agrees, and Billy is back to school and meets the hot 3rd grade teacher that is going to help him out. Just hopefully he can do this in time so he can actually say that he passed with flying colors.My problem with Billy Madison is that I didn't know if he was supposed to be retarded or someone who acted retarded at times? Just this wasn't the most well thought out comedy. I just don't get into the grown man acting like a total idiot, you know? I prefer other Adam Sandler comedies like Happy Gilmore, The Wedding Singer, Big Daddy, Anger Management, and Click where he actually acts like a grown up, those actually work comedically. But I admit that I did have a few laughs here and there and it was a fun story to watch, but this is one of those movies that I'm satisfied with seeing only once.6/10
The main reason why I wanted to check this movie out was because this was the film that Kate Winslet was nominated for once again by the Oscars, and I have to say from the film clip, this movie looked incredibly interesting. I was excited when I saw this movie for rent and grabbed it right away, I just watched it today and I have to say that while in some ways it was a disturbing story, it was also very touching in a lot of ways. I felt like I had been captured into the book, these characters had such depth and character, you felt for all of them in such ways, either you could relate or want to speak too and have some sort of relationship with.Sarah is a housewife and a mother who has lost a little something in her life, passion, while her husband is messing around on the internet, she meets the "prom king" of the block, Brad, and has a deep passionate affair with him. But there is a problem, Brad is also married with a child as well, but their affair and love is too strong to ignore when they realize that they are what were missing in each other's lives, or are they just a fantasy they needed to fulfill? There is another character in this film named Ronnie, who had a horrible reputation after exposing himself to a minor and is snubbed by the committee, but the only love of his life is his mother who is constantly trying to get an ex cop harasser off her son's back.Little Children is an incredibly touching film, the ending was so beautiful and really brought true closure to the story. The acting was just superb, Kate and Patrick worked so incredibly well together and had hot chemistry. Also, Jackie as Ronnie, his character was so heart breaking, it was just so disturbing to watch him go through his journey of trying to be a good boy for his mommy. This was a fantastic film, one of the best American films of our time, I would highly recommend it.9/10
I rented The Whole Nine Yards a few days ago, and just watched it this morning, I'm such a huge Bruce Willis fan, I don't see him that often in comedies, so I was curious how this would work. But after viewing this film, I have to just say that this movie was just so funny! I couldn't believe how much it made me laugh, I know it's such a dark subject, but it was pretty cool how they just turned into a zanny comedy. Bruce Willis and Matthew Perry were just the most perfect choices, they were like ying and yang. Matthew as this guy who just is scared of everything and finally has something at the end to say where he has control and Bruce couldn't have been a more perfect choice as the cocky and yet charismatic hit man who could be threatening but yet the most likable guy in the world. The story was just very clever and worked so well with the cast.Nick is just your average guy, he is a dentist and a very likable guy, but he gets walked on quite a bit, especially by his wife who he feels like he owes her family, so he won't divorce her. But one day, a new neighbor moves in, Nick notices him pretty much off the bat, it's Jimmy "the tulip" Tudeski, the famous hit man who has killed 17 people and also ratted out his boss. He's on the run from his boss in Chicago and has a ransom on his head. Nick actually likes Jimmy, but his wife, Sophie, says to turn him in and get the award. He goes to Chicago and falls in love with Jimmy's wife, Cynthia. When Nick comes back home to Canada, he learns from Jimmy that his wife has gone to hire a hit man to kill Nick. But Nick also learns that Jimmy wants to kill Cynthia, Jimmy's boss wants to kill Nick, Nick's receptionist is also a hit woman, pretty much everyone wants to kill everyone.That's pretty much the best way to sum up The Whole Nine Yards, but trust me when I say that this is such a fun movie. I really had a good time watching this movie, Bruce Willis was just so great. But I have to admit that Amanda Peet's performance floored me when she was just admiring Bruce's work and getting advice from him on what her first hit should be like. She was just so adorable while being deadly. So please, I would recommend this film, it's a dark comedy, yes, but it's all good, just learn to let go and have fun if you're very sensitive on the subject.7/10
I saw the trailer for Brothers and was just dying to see this movie, sadly the movie didn't have much of a wide release, so I couldn't find a close enough theater that was playing it. So I did have to wait for the rental, but still it was worth it. This is a story that is so different from so many other war films, we're getting a lot of the Iraq war films lately that are about men coming home to a different world and trying to figure out their place in society again. But to see a man start out, as we see in the beginning of Brothers, he's very loved and he loves his family, everything is pretty good. He goes to Afghanistan, goes through ultimate torture, doing anything he can to get back to his family. He goes back to find out that everyone has moved on, thinking he's dead, naturally his family has to learn that they have to move on, but he goes back expecting things to be the same. Such a sad movie, but very much one of the greatest of 2009.Sam and Tommy Cahill are brothers. A Marine about to embark on his fourth tour of duty, Sam is a steadfast family man married to his high school sweetheart, Grace, with whom he has two young daughters, Isabelle and Maggie. Tommy is being released from jail for armed robbery, not long before Sam departs for Afghanistan. Soon news comes that Sam's helicopter has crashed over the water, killing all of the Marines aboard. In reality, he and a hometown friend, Private Joe Willis, have been taken prisoner in a mountain village. With Sam "dead", Tommy attempts to redeem himself in the eyes of his family by wrangling old friends to help with kitchen repairs for Grace and the kids. Grace slowly sheds her previous resentment towards her brother-in-law. As months pass, Grace and Tommy bond over their mutual mourning, culminating in a passionate fireside kiss. They regret it afterward, and do not take this attraction any further, though Tommy continues to win the favor of his nieces. Meanwhile, Sam and Joe are abused and tortured by terrorists, forced to make videotaped dismissals of the military and their mission, though only Joe cracks. The captors eventually deem him useless and force Sam, at gunpoint, to beat Joe to death with a lead pipe. Sometime later, Sam is rescued. Sam returns home, clearly traumatized by his experience. He drifts through encounters in a cold, paranoid daze, refuses to explain to his family what happened while he was in Afghanistan.The actors are of course what makes this film so great and I cannot believe how far Tobey Maguire has come, he's always shown potential for great acting, this was his opportunity. I cannot explain, but that final scene with the birthday party where he's loosing it with his daughter who is making a lot of noises and you can tell has favored his brother over him, he just looses it with her and the scene is so beyond intense and heartbreaking. To see him just break down, you know what he's gone through and feel awful for him, then his family who you can't blame at all for trying to grieve and move on thinking he was dead trying to figure a way for things to go back to normal. Jake and Tobey were just incredible, but also I have to give Natalie of course her due, her final scene with Tobey as she begs him to tell her about what happened to him was just gut wrenching as a lot of army wives could probably feel her pain. Brothers is one of the best movies I have seen in the past couple of years, I highly recommend it, it's very intelligent and over looked.10/10
I was never really into the Blade movies or stories from the comic books, but my mom is a huge fan. We have a Pomeranian, and I remember her calling me and screaming about how Blade: Trinity had a vampire Pomeranian in it, I just started laughing and couldn't believe it. But she kept on asking me to watch it with her, because no one else would, so finally I sat down and watched it, and I couldn't believe my eyes, a vampire Pomeranian! Blade has been set up by humans who were pretending to be vampires, so now everyone thinks he is a murderer and has become the most wanted man in America. When the Feds get ahold of him, a group of humans help Blade escape and together they must find Dracula to stop him from creating the ultimate vampire. Of course, you know, that's not going to be easy since Dracula reminds you instead of a smooth talking Romanian as a Predator wanna be!While Blade: Trinity has some great action like always, it just seems like the whole special effects just revolved around video games of today. But I would recommend Blade: Trinity for vampire lovers, action lovers, or well, you get the idea. I just at least wanted to watch it, because, there is a vampire Pomeranian! Crazy, I know! But it was so cool to see and I will never doubt my mom again.6/10
If you are a fan of my reviews, you know one of my ultimate hatred for romantic comedies. The genre is so beyond tired, predictable and unrealistic fantasies that little girls need to tell themselves that they're going to find their prince charming one day and will live happily ever after. When 500 Days of Summer was released, I thought it was going to be the same thing, but this movie kept on getting all these great reviews, so I decided to suck it up and see what it was about. Holy God, I cannot believe there is a romantic comedy that is not only funny but extremely realistic and very well told. This is the kind of story that brings us back down to Earth, because everyone has had this type of a romance in their lives. Wither you're a realist or a hopeless romantic, this movie will work for you. The two lead actors: Joseph Gordon-Levitt and Zooey Deschanel worked so well together and were just a pleasure on screen. Both characters have faults, but still remain very lovable people and are someone to relate too.Tom Hansen meets Summer Finn, the new assistant to his boss. Tom trained as an architect but works as a writer at a greeting card company, living in Los Angeles. Following a karaoke night, Tom's co-worker, McKenzie, lets slip that Tom is attracted to Summer. Over the next few months Summer and Tom grow closer, despite Summer making it clear to Tom that she does not believe in true love, and does not want a boyfriend. Summer and Tom split up after they see The Graduate, a film which Tom thinks shows true love. Tom does not take the break up well, and Tom's friends call his younger sister, Rachel, to calm him down. Summer quits the greeting card company and Tom's boss moves him to consolations, as his depression is not suitable for happier events.I've had my "Summer" and I'm sure I've been a "Summer" to men before, that's why I loved this movie so much. For once this was a movie that I could relate too on a lot of levels. The director took a lot of risks with this movie and I loved the way it paid off. One of my favorite shots that I've just been bragging about to my friends and family was when Tom is invited to Summer's party, he's thinking that it's because she's starting to like him again as a love interest, so the director split's the screen as "Expectations" and "Reality". Tom goes into the party with a split screen of what he is expecting as Summer is so excited to see him and they reconnect, but in his reality vision, she's happy to see him, but he realizes that it's not the kind of happy that she's loving him again. Even the supporting cast, we don't have a cliché of characters, we have real friends and family that we would have in life. 500 Days of Summer is a charming movie and such a breath of fresh air that Hollywood can still pull in original ideas and make a romantic comedy that is not only funny, but heart warming as well. The ending is guaranteed to leave a smile on your face.9/10
First there was Harry Potter, Lord of the Rings, then Twilight and now we have The Hunger Games. Let me start by saying much kudos to the film on being popular by word of the mouth because normally we are bombarded with crazy advertising for a film like this but instead I didn't see that much honestly. I think the film relied more on it's fan base than anything for the box office numbers and it really did pay off. My fiancé and I actually waited until this weekend to see The Hunger Games to see it with a not so crowded theater and still it was pretty packed. I didn't know what to expect and to be honest I thought I would never get into this film but I'm surprised to say that I really did like this movie and actually bought the book because of it. For a long time it felt like the teenager's intelligence was just being insulted with the bad writing with Twilight and I gave up hope for them. The Hunger Games is an intelligent well thought out story that has a clever take on our society and isn't afraid to tell you the truth.The nation of Panem, formed from a post-apocalyptic North America, consists of a wealthy Capitol and twelve poorer surrounding districts. As a punishment for a previous rebellion against the Capitol by the districts, one boy and one girl between the ages of 12 and 18 from each district are selected by an annual lottery to participate in the Hunger Games, an event in which the "tributes" must fight in an arena controlled by the Capitol until there is only one victor. Katniss, a 16-year-old girl from District 12, volunteers for the Hunger Games in place of her younger sister. Peeta, a baker's son is also selected. Katniss and Peeta are taken to the Capitol, where their drunken mentor, former Games victor, instructs them to watch and learn the talents of the other tributes. They get to go on TV and get treated like celebrities until the games begin and now must face survival and death.I thought the film was very clever on what would life be like if we were put into situations like this. I thought the "tributes" were treated more like American Idol contestants and that was very believable. I liked the characters and they were not only believable but they were likable. Jennifer Lawrence does a really good job as Katniss along with Woody Harrelson, Lenny Kravitz and Elizabeth Banks. The costumes were so creepy but believable that they would be considered the high fashions of the time. The action scenes were very exciting and also so sad and intense. These are kids who have to not only kill each other but face the possibility of dying before they can experience so much of what life has to offer. My only complaint of the film was the shaky cam effect. I don't mind when there's not much action going on in the movie, but when the action is happening, we couldn't tell who was getting killed and what was going on. Thank goodness this wasn't 3D because I would've had a big headache. Also I felt like the film cuts short on giving any of the other tributes any kind of character development that you really don't feel for them as much.But I thought this was a great movie and a good start to the summer blockbuster films. I have to admit that I will probably buy this when it's released on blu ray and will read the books, it seems like a really interesting story. I'm looking forward to the sequels and most of all I'm just glad that we will have a franchise again where the story is just plain exciting and we're dying to see what happens to our hero's next. I would recommend for you to see this film before it leaves the theaters. It's one that should be experienced on the big screen because of the scope of the movie, the sets are great and it's a movie that you really could get into. Looking forward to seeing what Katniss will do next now that she's ticked off the rich.8/10
I wasn't really into seeing the third Mission Impossible, because the first two in my opinion were just a mirror for Tom Cruise to look into and admire himself, but my boyfriend really wanted to see it and we rented it, I figured that I should just give it a chance. Actually, I'd have to say honestly that I actually liked Mission Impossible 3 the best out of the series, it had a real story and believable stunts.This time Ethan has a serious girlfriend turned wife, but he must keep his identity a secret from her, which obviously isn't that easy. But he wants to retire and live a normal life, but in his last mission he meets Owan, a politician who wants a "rabbit foot", not that kind of a rabbit foot, looks more like a bomb. When Ethan kidnaps him and almost kills him, Owan manages an escape and wants revenge and will make sure that Ethan's wife's last words will be his name.Despite the fact that it was an interesting turn to see Phillip Seymour Hoffman as a villain, I have to admit that he was a good one. Still, I felt that the story could've been more, but like I said, this felt like a huge improvement from the first two, not to mention that Tom Cruise had a lot to make up for post jumping on couch to, well, you get the idea. But I would recommend the third Mission Impossible for a fun action flick.7/10
I tried to stay away from Mr. & Mrs. Smith, from all the Brad and Angelina hype, I just wanted to get far away from all the news and their faces. Now, it's been almost 3 years since then, but we've still got that silly story going on, sad, I know. But I guess I was a little interested in seeing what Mr. & Mrs. Smith was about. My boyfriend had it on DVD and told me to give it a look, that it was actually pretty good. So I watched it yesterday and I have to say that it was a pretty good film, it had solid action with a great and original story, but the action at times was a little too much and then reminded me of True Lies. Angelina and Brad did have great chemistry, but the fight scenes between them could have just been a little bit more tamed down and more believable. Now I love action films, I love how unrealistic they could be, but Mr. & Mrs. Smith just could have been more of a realistic type of film like James Bond where at times is a little silly, but for the most part is something you can say that looks real.Jane and John Smith met on a romantic trip in Columbia and immediately hit it off, they get married, but quickly everything isn't clicking as well. One of the reasons that might be is because they constantly lie to each other. They are both secret agents and neither one of them are aware of the other's secret double life. But when they are hired for the same mission, they spot each other and fail the mission. Now their agencies are demanding that they kill each other, but they may find a hard time doing that when they just reignited the flame in their relationship.Mr. & Mrs. Smith is a good action movie, the acting was typical, it was average, but it worked for the film. Brad and Angelina had hot chemistry as we've had rubbed in our faces for the last couple years, but onto the film. The fight scenes were cool, but my favorite was when they came home to dinner and both of them know but don't know that they know about each other and they think that they are out to get each other. It was a funny scene and Brad really made the comedy fit in very well. I would recommend Mr. & Mrs. Smith for a watch, it's worth a look, it's just over the top, I warn you.6/10
I will admit it up front, I really dislike Martin Lawerence, I think despite his comedic appeal, his act is normally hateful. But a couple friends told me that they kinda enjoyed Big Mama's House, so I figured that I should give it a chance. I sometimes like these kind of movies, I especially enjoyed White Chicks, and Big Mama's House seemed simular, so in some ways I guess that I was kinda excited, maybe it was stupid humor that only a few would get or not want to admit that they liked, but I was wrong.Malcom is a FBI agent who is investigating a deadly convict on the run, this convict might be paying a visit to an old girlfriend and their son. The girlfriend decides to go visit Big Mama, her grandmother, but when Big Mama leaves town unexpectidly, Malcom disguises himself as Big Mama and convinces the girl and the whole town that he is her. But he is falling for the girl in the mean time and has to keep his act up as her loving grandmother without going too far.Sometimes stupid, stereotypical, and offensive, I can understand why this movie isn't well received by most. It isn't well acted and it is completely predictable, this is better than most Martin Lawerence films I've seen, but that's not saying much. I'm not sure if I'd recommend this movie to anyone, but who knows? Someone might actually enjoy this movie, good luck, pal.2/10
I don't know why, but I seriously can't help but laugh at the Harold and Kumar movies. They're so over the top and silly that you can't help but laugh. The first adventure we went on with them, they just had the munchies and needed some White Castle. The second adventure was to get the loves of their lives back and end up going to Guantanamo Bay. Now, we get to celebrate the joyful holiday of Christmas with them. I admit that when I saw the trailer for this one, it didn't make me laugh too much. I wasn't sure if this was going to have the same kick as the previous films had, but A Very Harold and Kumar Christmas not only delivered in the laughs but was actually a very good movie that in it's own crude way was a touching story about how friends can grow apart but reunite by the weirdest situations.Harold is now a successful businessman who works at a popular company while Kumar is still living the life of a stoner handling a bad break up with Vanessa. At Maria's Christmas party, Harold meets Maria's father. He explains to Harold that he never had a perfect Christmas and he is counting on Harold to make this one the best for his daughter, Harold's wife Maria. Maria's father also brings to Harold's house the perfect Christmas tree. When a package addressed to Harold arrives at Kumar's apartment, he decides to deliver it to Harold. The package turns out to be a large marijuana joint that Kumar cannot resist smoking. Since Harold has gotten married and does not get high anymore, he knocks the lit joint out of Kumar's hands and it lands in the tree and causing a fire. So now Harold and Kumar are on a new adventure to get the tree back before the family returns.I know that the situations were out of control. We have some dark jokes with a child taking every extreme drug known to man, we have Neil Patrick Harris on the verge of raping a woman. I know I should have been disturbed technically, but why not just have a good time and remind yourself that this is just a movie? I thought Neil Patrick Harris was just too funny as usual when the boys ask him where he's been and that he got shot and branded a hooker, he replies with "can you be more specific?", I almost died laughing. I loved the creepy waffle making robot that Kumar had, how it actually loved Kumar and saved his life. But the moment that really got to me was seeing the kid who was on every crazy drug running around on the ceiling, it was so out there that I just had to laugh.Like I said, there are some very extreme jokes that a lot of people will take offense too easily. There is a moment where Neil Patrick Harris is talking about Heaven and I know that if you have strong religious beliefs, you're not going to like that scene. Though I don' know why then you are seeing a Harold and Kumar movie since they're not listed in the tactful department. But what I really liked about this story is that it showed their softer side, Harold is growing up and Kumar wants to stay the same as a stoner who is just cruising through life, we all have friends like that and it's hard to keep in touch when you're on different paths. I loved seeing them remember what's important, that it's OK to let go a little bit or that it's OK to grow up. I would recommend this for the fans, it's a great follow up to our favorite stoners. If you're looking for a good laugh, I think you're in for a treat, Harold and Kumar do not disappoint.8/10
Oh, my God, I swear I nearly killed myself while my friend and I were watching this movie. I'm not a chick flick girl and this movie is the reason why. Now I actually do love a few chick flicks that are fun, clever, and just harmless. This movie is extremely harmful to anyone who watches it, after watching this movie I felt like shoe shopping, listening to Sarah McLaughlin, bonding with my mother, moving my furniture, talking about boys, and baking cookies. This is the ultimate stereotype for women and makes us just look oh so bad. But it looked cute from the cover and I like Diane Keaton and Mandy Moore, so I wanted to give this movie a chance, but instead it just wasted my time and made me throw up a little in my mouth. I know that sounds bad since I'm a girl, but how in the heck was I supposed to like these characters? They were awful.Daphne is a protective, manipulative, and pesky little mother who just loves her daughters more than most mothers should. She's especially obsessed with her baby daughter, Milly, who is having a hard time in the love department. Daphne takes out an ad on the internet as a mom looking for her daughter's life partner. She meets Jason, a promising guy who is stable, and a guy, Johnny, a musician with a psychotic son that she's convinced is a heart breaker. Milly meets them both looking "like chance" and she has to decide between stable, rich Jason or sensitive, loving Johnny. You can figure it out from here.Seriously, these characters were horrible, just first off Daphne just comes off as a possessive and psychotic mom who needs a life so badly, because she's living it through her daughter's. Then Milly, she's dating and sleeping with these two guys at once and then when she gets busted, she's crying and we're supposed to feel bad for her? Why wasn't she just honest with the guys in the first place? The ending was horribly cliché'd as a chick flick film and was incredibly disturbing in some moments. This is an awful movie, I wouldn't recommend it unless you are the ultimate chick flick fan.1/10
Mel Gibson, what can you say about this guy? Despite his personal life, you could never ever deny his talents in the business. He's a great actor and an even better director who always delivers in top notch action. You know, most villains shouldn't even bother messing with him after seeing his movies where his children are kidnapped or killed, we all know how crazed he gets. But after 9 years of staying away from being in front of the camera, most were expecting something big if he was to act again. He chose to do Edge of Darkness, based on a BBC miniseries. I could see the miniseries in this film because while it's great in the action and suspense, it does run a little long, there were scenes that were not really needed. But Edge of Darkness does deliver in the non stop twists and turns watching Mel trying to solve the vicious murder of his daughter and trying to figure out a corrupt system that won't give him any answers and keep leading him to wonder if there is anyone he could trust in the world.In Boston, Thomas Craven picks up his daughter, Emma, who has returned home to visit. She throws up, while getting into Thomas' car. At home, as he prepares a meal, Emma starts a nosebleed and vomits violently and as they hurriedly leave to find a hospital, a masked gunman yells, "Craven," and fires two shotgun blasts at Emma simultaneously. Blasted through the door, she dies in Thomas' arms. The police believe that Thomas, a police detective, was the gunman's target, but he thinks otherwise. When he finds Emma had a pistol in her night stand he checks the ownership. David is frightened of the company Northmoor where Emma worked and Thomas discovers that Emma became aware that Northmoor was manufacturing nuclear weapons, intended to be traced to foreign nations if they are used as dirty bombs. Following the failed break-in of the activists, Emma was poisoned with thallium through a carton of organic milk. As Thomas digs further into what his daughter was trying to fight, he may soon realize that he's gotten into the same danger as she did with the evil company.Now Edge of Darkness does have a couple little flaws, like I said, it's a little too long. At times I was starting to get a little bored, but what I do give it credit for is that when it delivered, it did very well. I felt so bad for anyone that talked to Mel Gibson's character in this movie, because it seemed like every time he did talk to someone to find out more about what happened to his daughter, they got it bad afterwards. A little flaw, in the suspension of disbelief, he talks to one of her friends in a car in a secret location, and when she opens to door after their talk and gets out of the car, BAM, she's gets slammed by a car from the corrupt company. I'm supposed to believe that a car was waiting for her and not only that, but managed to speed like crazy just in time to smack her across the road right as she gets out of the car? But I do give it credit that it was a big jump moment and got everyone in the audience to jump out of their seats. Mel Gibson did a good job, the cast is very exceptional and the direction of the film is also great as it shows great shots of Boston. It keeps you in a tense bond and won't let go, so I'd recommend it for a rental.7/10
I couldn't tell you how excited I was to see The Strangers, from the moment I saw the trailer, I just knew this movie was a must see. Not in a long time has a trailer scared me so much, I just couldn't wait to see this movie. So I saw it tonite, opening night, I have to say that I'm a little disappointed with this movie. While it has some strong points, some very disturbing and creepy moments, the movie hits some classic cliché's that you've seen before as well as the characters you're just screaming at and calling idiots while in the audience. Now we have two good actors, Scott Speedman and Liv Tyler, but their characters lacked any good development and not to mention, if you're alone in your house and someone's making noise outside, do you walk towards the noise?! I'm sorry, just had to get that out, it just frustrated me in the classic cliché', let's split up and not give each other equal weapons.Kristen and James are a couple who have gone back to their father's place to celebrate the engagement that they were supposed to have, but Kristen said no. James feeling hurt goes out to get cigarettes for Kristen, Kristen hears some strange noises throughout the house, then discovers there is a man with a mask who is just making all sorts of bangs, breaking into the house, and destroying her phone. James comes back, they then discover there is three of these psycho's and must try to survive the night of terror that awaits them.The main problem with the movie is the major cliché's that come with it: the splitting up, the moving towards the noises, not to mention if these killers are human how is it that they appear in one scene then we cut back again to them and they're gone? I was just also disappointed with the dialog that did exist, "because you were home"? Are you serious? There were some predictable moments, and the one thing that majorly made me angry, the killers took their very very very sweet time in establishing that they were any harm to these people, I mean other than with the car scene and making noises, I didn't take most of their presence seriously, I was like "are they going to do anything this time?". The Strangers is a disappointment, I would recommend you wait for the rental and watch it in the dark at home, it'd probably be scarier that way.5/10
I don't understand why some of the better animated films have semi-low ratings, I think because people were comparing this movie to the film "Antz", I'm not quite sure if it was a sequel, but I thought on it's own "The Ant Bully" was a very fun movie for all ages. The animation and the story were fun and great to watch, I honestly think that The Ant Bully is one of the best animated films I have seen in a while.Lucas is a boy who is constantly picked on and he ends up taking his anger out on the ants in his front yard by smashing their colony and drowning them with the hose. The ants are fed up and decide to shrink Lucas and give him a taste of what they go through when he drowns and destroys their city. He now has to work as an ant and become one of them, he slowly realizes how important the ants are and how wrong he was. But things get more difficult when he forgets that he hired an exterminator to get rid of the ants.The Ant Bully was a very touching and wonderful story that I felt is important for kids to watch. I loved how it showed the moral of "What goes around comes around", kids need to learn that more now a days, because it's very true. Not to mention that The Ant Bully in general is just a great animated film that the whole family could get a kick out of. A great cast and a fun filled story made this film work, so don't be so harsh.7/10
You know the saying "Curiosity Killed The Cat"? Well, I have heard so much about this film, from a magazine that named this one of the most shocking movies of all time, my 1001 movies you must see before you die, my sister who saw this at a film festival, and the I love the 70's show on VH1. I just had to see this movie since it was named the grossest movie of all time, and well, after viewing this film last night, I have to say that it really did live up to it's title. My God, this movie was so weird! I thought I really did see it all with some of the sickest movies and TV shows I've seen, some things I guess will always still feel like a shock.Well, Babs Johnson, aka Divine, has been named the filthiest person alive and a jealous couple named the Marbles are competing for that title. They want to take Divine out and be named the filthiest couple alive by kidnapping women, raping them, impregnating them, and selling their babies to lesbian couples. But it seems like Divine and her family of well... I don't know, seems to keep the title by having sex with chickens, butt lip syncing, eating dog feces, stuffing meat up their skirts, incest, and it just gets grosser and grosser.Pink Flamingos is horribly acted, horribly made, and well, just plain horrible. The reason for the 10 rating I'm going to give it is due to the fact, well, how could you rate this film? I always rate, so I just figure what the heck? Through the grossness of this film, you have got to give John Waters some credit, who the heck would ever think of this movie over 35 years later? To the cast and crew who worked on this film, you guys are just plain nasty!10/10
Wrong Turn 2: Dead End, what I expected to be total trash turned out to be one of the better horror sequels in a while. Wrong Turn is a decent horror movie that I usually recommend to my friends, it had a fresh new feel for the Texas Chainsaw Massacre genre. So when my boyfriend and I were looking for a film to watch, we came across Wrong Turn 2: Dead End at the video store, I was like oh, no, another crummy sequel to destroy a fine film. But he wanted to see it, so we watched it last night, I have to say that I was completely wrong about what I thought this film was going to be. Actually, this was a fun horror movie, you didn't even need to see the first one to get it, that was a bonus that not too many sequels give the chance for. Wrong Turn 2: Dead End is a fun and gory sequel that offers lots of blood and entertainment.A group is about to film another "survivor" type of reality show in the middle of the woods. It's called "Apocolypse" where they have to pretend that the world is gone and they're the only survivors and whoever's left standing wins a hundred grand. But things take a very deadly turn when the gang is attacked by blood hungry hillbilly cannibals who want to have them for dinner, if you know what I mean. So this turns into a real survivor show when the gang is now fighting for their lives and try to make it out of the woods alive.While there are some stories that had no point to them, Wrong Turn 2: Dead End still has an awesome story over all. The deaths were absolutely cool to see, I know that sounds bad, but I just love a good horror film with the great death scenes. I think the first girl had the best with the ax, but I'm not going to give that scene away, just trust me, it's a very cool one. I was very impressed with how cool this sequel was and I highly recommend this movie for any horror fan, it's a fun one to watch.7/10
I wasn't really too interested in seeing Take the Lead, I mean, don't get me wrong, I love Antonio Banderas, but this movie looked like your typical Save the Last Dance type of flick. My mom asked me to rent it and give it a look with her, so we did, and I was pleasantly surprised to find out how much I enjoyed this film. It had a great story and was truly inspiring to see how the kids you'd expect to find in your typical slum turn themselves into fine and exciting young adults.Take the Lead is about these kids who are named as the one's who will not make it, in fact, it'll be a surprise that they'll live to see their 18th birthdays, since they live in a bad neighborhood. But when Pierre Duwaine, a ballroom dance teacher, offers to take over the detention hall, he also offers these hip hop gangsta teens the chance to learn: respect, discipline, and the salsa! Slowly, these kids realize how much they have in common with each other, pushing themselves to the limit and proving to everyone that they choose to have a future! Take the Lead is like Save the Last Dance meets Dangerous Minds, it had a really great story and good acting. I loved how inspirational it was and as cheesy as it sounds, I loved watching these kids change from hoodlums to respectable young adults. As a teacher in training, that is the most gratifying moment in their career, so it's nice to see that you can inspire, or even make your every minute count.7/10
My friend and I were looking for a movie to see this weekend and Mad Money was the only movie that looked like fun. When we finished the movie, the audience was happy and we were happy, this was a fun and cute movie. So I have to say that I am very very surprised by this harsh rating on IMDb, I mean, a 4.4?! You have got to be kidding me, this is by no means movie of the year, but for what it was, this was just a fun comedy to watch. There wasn't any major problems with this movie that deserves that kind of a rating that makes it look like the first major flop of the year. Diane Keaton, Queen Latifah, and Katie Holmes were absolutely adorable together and had great chemistry. They made the story an Oceans Eleven for the girls, sounds like such a chick flick, but I think this is one that most could actually enjoy.Bridget and her husband, Dan are in major debt, really bad debt, like 282,000 dollars in debt. They are about to loose everything they own, so Bridget gets a job as a janitor for the financial bank. When she notices the ultimate torture of how they shred worn out money, she gets a clever idea with the help of two other girl employees, Nina and Jackie, to find a way to break the system and get that money to get out of their poor situations. Once they get what they need, Bridget is so satisfied with how smooth everything went, she wants more and they go for it, but they should learn not to get so greedy since someone is on their tale.Mad Money is a chick flick, but it's one of the rare one's that I liked. I didn't think there was anything wrong with this film. I think they could have explained the situation with the boss of the bank a little better, I don't know if he was in on it or what, but it's something that could slide I think. Queen Latifah was just so funny and Diane Keaton was a perfect choice for Bridget, Katie Holmes was pretty decent for the comic relief. Please don't take the rating on IMDb seriously, I think that Mad Money was just a fun little comedy that deserves a better chance.6/10
I think this has been the ultimate roller coaster ride, after my boyfriend begged for me to rent Death Proof, which I thought I would hate and he thought he would love, it was the complete opposite, I loved that movie and he hated it. So I was really excited to see Planet Terror, which he didn't wanna see, because he figured if he didn't like Death Proof, why would he like this one? But I was curious because I heard Planet Terror was better, well he loved it, I just thought it was alright. But we both agreed on one thing, boy did this movie take one gigantic turn. It went from this awesome old-school type of zombie flick to a government action movie and not to mention had the most unbelievable situations. Now don't get me wrong, there are some things that I will always let slide, but Rose McGowan's character was complete B.S., with her leg, just she learns how to walk with a table leg in the same night that she lost her real leg? I don't wanna nit pick because at times it was cool, but the story just completely fell apart in the second act.It starts off as a normal night for some, that is until people on the road are being led to a Military Base camp where there is a deadly virus that is turning the people into brain eating zombies. The virus quickly takes over and people are killing each other all over town. But a group of people are going to do their best to survive the night and beat these killer zombies, if it's the last thing that they do.While I absolutely loved the beginning, I mean, it had great gore, a fun script, and some hilarious dark comedy, I just loved the Sargent character played by Michael Biehn(who I was so happy to see after so many years) when he tells the group of people "Shoot as many as you can... but don't shoot me!" and then "missing reel" "I can't believe my own deputy shot me!", I couldn't stop laughing. Like I said, I thought the first hour was just great, but the ending just took a complete turn from what I thought this film was going to be. But I would still say to give it a look, you will get a few scares and a few good laughs at least. But I'll just stick to Death Proof.6/10
Last night I was just looking for a good new movie to watch and I was looking in my mom's film collection and came across The Princess Diaries, so I figured I would give it a shot. I love Julie Andrews and Anne Hathaway, so it seemed like just a fun little movie that I could watch before I fell asleep. I have to say that The Princess Diaries is a modern day fairy tale and that it is absolutely charming. It had cute laughs and is perfect for a teen audience, I could see some adults enjoying it as well. The actors were wonderful and the plot was reasonably good.Mia is an average girl in San Fransico, her goal in life though is to remain invisible by keeping her frizzy hair, bushy eyebrows, and clumsiness to push everyone away. She has a couple of friends, Lily and Michael, who genuinely care about her and her mom. But one day her long lost grandmother, Clarisse Renaldi, who is the queen of Genovia comes to tell her that she is the princess and must learn how to behave like one to rule the country. Mia takes the lessons and decides that she will find out if she wants it or not. But there comes a price when the school finds out and starts to love HER publicity a little too much.The Princess Diaries was very cute, my only problem was that it was extremely stereotypical and at times a bit too predictable. But seeing where this movie was aimed at, I'd say it did a job well done. Julie and Anne had great chemistry, they are such wonderful actresses that they really made this film enjoyable. This was a cute film, I would recommend it to others for an afternoon watch. It's just a harmless film that I'm sure anyone could be touched by, even if the ending was extremely cheesy.6/10
So I just rented and saw Roman Holiday, weird thing is mainly because of my books "1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die" and "501 Movies You Must See", both books recommended Roman Holiday. Not only that, but would you believe I have seen 1300 movies, and I have never seen an Audrey Hepburn movie? Crazy, I know. But I figured if I'm going to start, why not with her Oscar winning role? Roman Holiday is a simple, yet nevertheless, entertaining romantic comedy that I'm sure you'll get a smile out of. It's just beautifully done and makes you feel very good.Anya is a princess, so used to her busy and hectic scheduled life, she's actually now getting very sick of it. She wants to have one day where she could just be a normal person, while touring Italy, she breaks down one night about her hectic life, her doctor gives her some sleep medication, but she sneaks out before it kicks in to go for a night on the town. But Mr. Bradley, a journalist, finds her asleep on a bench, and offers her a night in his little cheap apartment, but when he finds out who she is, he takes this opportunity to get a real story for a lot of money, not revealing his true identity to her and vise versa with her, but he shows her the day of her life time and they fall for each other. Only one problem, Anya knows that she must soon return to her life of scheduled hectic life.Roman Holiday is a beautifully made film that I'm sure anyone could enjoy. It's one of those films that is just impossible to not like, Audrey and Greg had great chemistry and I just miss these old romantic films, they have such a magical charm to them. I would highly recommend Roman Holiday, it's a film that truly captures a day of making wishes come true with someone that you care about.8/10
The first time I saw this preview, the first thought that came into my head was "Oh, my God, how could they rip off Rear Window?", Rear Window is one of my all time favorite movies. But my boyfriend and I had nothing better to do last week and decided to see it, I have to say that actually, it wasn't as bad as I expected, I have to admit that it was a pretty good re-introduction to one of the greatest thrillers of all time. It had a new and fresh feeling with teens and it worked, despite how it seemed a bit more predictable than Rear Window, it still was pretty clever.Kale has had a rough year, while driving his father back from their father/son fishing trip, they get into a horrible fatal car accident, the Father dies, but Kale is alive trying to deal with the guilt of what happened. But a teacher pushes him too far in his high school Spanish class and he hits the teacher, putting him on house arrest, he cannot leave outside his property. But he's in luck when a hot young girl moves next door, they quickly develop a peeping tom type of relationship, they spy on the neighbors, but when they see the neighbor across the street on a date, but the date "never leaves the house" and they want to prove him as a cold hearted murderer, but is he? You'll have to see this movie to find out.So Distubia was a pretty good movie, I would recommend it, although before you see it, I would highly recommend seeing Rear Window, but this was a good updated version that I'm sure you'll enjoy. It keeps you on the edge of your seat and will make you ask questions over and over again, those are always the thrillers that are worth seeing.7/10
A couple years ago, my mom bought me "Creepshow" from the five dollar bin at a store and I guess I didn't realize how big of a deal it was to many horror fans. I loved the original, it was a great start to "Tales from the Crypt". I loved the second installment, it had more scary stories and the great thing was that everyone who got killed in these stories totally deserved to die! OK, that sounded bad, but you'll understand what I mean when you see it.First installment is about an old man and lady who own an Idian store and have been given some valuable jewels, but unfortunately are robbed and brutally murdered, but what the killers don't know is that maybe they should take a closer look at that statue out front. Second installment is about a group of teens who are stranded on a raft in the middle of a pond with a monster oil-looking eating machine that's killing them off one by one. And the third installment is about the consequences, even if they are super natural, involving a hit and run.Despite some cheesy moments and questionable one's, I thought that Creepshow 2 had some great moments and some very scary ones as well. I think other horror fans will enjoy this movie as well. Creepshow is a great series of stories and I really wish there were more, but I guess that's what the show "Tales from the Crypt" was for.6/10
I rented Martian Child a while ago and watched it, I really liked this movie. It was so charming and the big feel good movie of 2007, I've almost forgotten the real feeling of being so happy at the end of a film, most films of today don't touch it because it became cliché' for a while. But Martian Child brings together a brilliant cast with a very lovely story. John Cusack has been doing a lot of smaller films that don't bring much box office for the past few years, but his talent is as strong as ever and brings in a terrific and touching performance as an alien's foster parent on Earth. Bobby Coleman, I have never seen him in a film before, but his presence on screen was incredible. Most child actors can come off as either too cute or very obnoxious, Bobby was the perfect choice for Dennis. Bobby and John's chemistry made the story one of the most touching of 2007.Dennis is a little boy who claims to be from Mars, he lives in a box most of the time because he says the sun ray's hurt him and he also wears a belt of batteries to hold him to the ground. A lot of families have left him and he's just more excited to be going home in a while. David, a widower and a famous author, adopts Dennis and starts writing his next story about him trying to understand while Dennis does his best to convince him that he's from Mars. But while they bond and understand each other's worlds, they become not only friends, but more like father and son.Martian Child is in my opinion one of the better films to come out of 2007, it was just very honest and put itself out there. It reminded me of other films that I have seen before, but with what I think was a better story idea. A child claiming to be from another planet was a little more believable due to the fact, he's a kid, is he doing this to be different or is he really telling the truth? The story works on a lot of levels and the ending is a big tear jerker. I highly recommend Martian Child, it's a beautiful film and is a new favorite of mine.8/10
After all the hype we've been getting for Bee Movie, I was so looking forward to seeing this film. It looked like it was a guaranteed hit; I decided to check this movie out this afternoon and even though I still liked Bee Movie. It seemed just like this was more meant for the adults than the kids, some of the references I'm certain children wouldn't get or even shouldn't get. I'm glad that they are making these movies for also the adults to enjoy, but I think these film makers are forgetting the audience this movie is supposed to be aimed at. Like I did laugh at the Ray Liotta and Sting references, but what kids would get that? The story was good despite some minor flaws, which I'll explain later, but it was clever.Barry is a bee who is living in the typical bee world where you live, you work, and you die. He's getting sick of it too, he wants something different, so he goes out into the human world. He meets a nice lady named Venessa and decides to break the Bee law and talk to her, they develop a friendship. He discovers in the human world that they sell honey and he's working his butt off for it, so he decides to go ahead and sue the human race for all the honey they sell. But he realizes soon that bee's mean more than just making honey.Bee Movie is cute and has a few good laughs I will always admit, but I'm just disappointed with the humor as well as the script, it seemed just too bland at moments and very predictable. But I had a problem with how the humans handled finding out that bee's can talk, they just accepted it very easily. Like I said I think the humor also was just too aimed at adults than the kids, so I'm not sure if this could qualify for family film of the year. Bee Movie is definitely worth a watch, but don't expect too much.7/10
Let me get this out, I adore both Jamie Lee Curtis and Sigourney Weaver, when I saw the trailer to You Again, I wanted to love this movie so badly. Just because it has these two great actresses in it. Well, I caught it on the movie channel and now I can see why it was voted one of the worst movies of the year. I can forgive Jamie and Sigourney as they are older and have made some great career choices, they are allowed a mistake or two. However, what is Kristen Bell and Odette Yustman's excuses? They both had promising careers with Forgetting Sarah Marshall and Cloverfield and are now messing it up with their latest choices like When in Rome and The Unborn. The plot is actually really good, but the way they sugar coated it, it turned into a total disaster of a film and completely wasted my time.Marni, an acne-riddled high school senior with glasses and braces, reveals how she is tormented and bullied by other girls, specifically Joanna, who made Marni's high school life miserable. Years later, in 2010, however, she is a successful public relations executive, recently promoted to a job in New York. When she flies home to her older brother's wedding, she discovers her brother Will is about to marry Joanna. Marni is also upset to see that Joanna fits in very well with the family. The plot thickens when her mother Gail meets up with Joanna's aunt Ramona, Gail's former best friend who pushed her into a pool at their senior prom. Ramona is now a successful, wealthy woman who owns several hotels and a private plane. Now they must all get along for her brother's sake, but it's a matter of letting the past go.One of the major things that annoyed me is Betty White. Since she was "so adorable" in The Proposal, they figured they needed a "hip granny" for this movie too, it was rather pathetic and she looks like she's just about to give up on life. Then with the plot, it's like it had bipolar disorder, it just didn't know what it wanted. First Joanna is evil, then she's good, then she's evil, then she's good, then she's evil again, then she's good again? It didn't work, why not just make her evil all the way? Then our "hero", Marni, is just as evil as Joanna. She can't let go of the past and just makes a total fool of herself during the movie. How is her character likable? She says she loves her brother so much, yet she can't let high school go? People change and she never gave Joanna a chance to see if she had grown up or not. For someone who is so successful now, you'd think she would put that as her revenge.Then to top it all off, they end the movie with throwing a random guy who has 5 minutes of screen time as Marni's love interest. God forbid they have a girl remain single in a film, it's just so sad to leave her alone. The only thing I found redeeming about this movie was Jamie and Sigourney, they had great chemistry and honestly I would have rather had the movie be about them. They were spot on with their comedy and were great to see on screen bouncing off each other with their lines. But this was just a horrible movie, pathetically put together and I would say just stay away from this movie. I can forgive Jamie and Sigourney, but I pity the other fools who took some zangy drugs to say yes to this script.1/10
I was so excited to see Mr. Woodcock today, saw the matinée this morning and I have to say that Mr. Woodcock lived up to my expectations. It was a great comedy to watch and had a lot of fun laughs. I think the reason why I love this film so much is because I could totally relate to it, in junior high I was the fat kid and had the teacher who must have been the partner of Satan, he was evil. I've changed quite a bit since then, but I still think of that teacher every once in a while. So this was just such a good comedy for everyone who has had to deal with a gym teacher like Mr. Woodcock. The actors seemed to really enjoy themselves, it was cool seeing Sean William Scott out of his normal idiotic roles and into something where he just was a normal guy, he did good. Billy Bob Thorton couldn't have been a more perfect choice, he was terrific. Together they really made the story work and was actually believable.John Farley is a very successful author of the book "Letting Go", a book on how to let go of a rough past and rebuild your life. He comes back home to surprise his mom and get a special award for his work, but he finds out his mom is dating someone he knows. Mr. Woodcock, the evil junior high gym teacher that made John's life a living hell; and it looks like Mr. Woodcock has not changed his ways when he starts to treat "Farley" the same way he did when he was a kid. But it looks like they have to get comfortable with each other since Mr. Woodcock is marrying John's mom.The cast looked like they just had a great time. I know this story was extremely predictable, but it was all in good fun. I loved seeing John's character just loose it as the story continued. There were some really great laughs in the film, the scene that got me was definitely the pot hole scene, I'm not going to spoil it, but I guarantee you for sure that you'll get a huge laugh once you see it. Mr. Woodcock is a fun comedy that I recommend, Billy Bob is just an awesome Mr. Woodcock, he really made the movie into a blast.7/10
Like a lot of horror movies that have a lot of sequels, somewhere the series will usually take a down turn for the story. Well, I think with the Hellraiser series, it started with Hellraiser Inferno. It took a completely different turn which I don't mind, because I like when sequels don't try to copy cat off the original formula. You can only take the same story so much and it becomes very tiresome. Pinhead is back and wants to raise hell even more than the last time and is now just playing with your head. Questioning the line between reality and fantasy, Inferno is messes with your head and doesn't let go. In some ways it's clever, but not with the proper finances and lousy actors, this is where the series took a turn for the worst. I'm pretty sure Clive Barker did not have Inferno in his mind when he was writing the story for Hellraiser and wouldn't be surprised if he was angry with these sequels.Joseph Thorne is an intelligent, yet shady Denver police detective. One day, he comes across a series of bizarre, brutal, and ritualistic murders and is driven into obsession with the puzzle box associated with the crimes, known as the Lament Configuration, eventually solving the puzzle. Upon solving the box, he becomes obsessed with unmasking the mysterious figure connected to the crimes, known only as "The Engineer". When discovering that "The Engineer" has kidnapped a child, he begins hunting for the figure, who in turn taunts him, killing off many of his friends, leaving one of the child's fingers at every crime scene. Eventually, he is driven into insanity while working on the case, and is subjected to various psychological torments for much of the film, such as brutal hallucinations, and soon discovers that this is only the beginning of his punishments for the cruel life he led.I actually didn't mind the idea at all with how we didn't know what world Joe was in. Was he crazy or was the situation around him crazy or maybe even a little bit of both. But the way the story was written, it felt like the script was finished and then they added Pinhead in. I found the lead character to be a bit too unlikable, even though there is this side to him where he is trying to save this child and is so determined to make things right, he's so arrogant and not to mention he cheats and leaves his family all the time when he knows there's a chance they might not be safe. The effects are pretty decent, there's this moment where Joe sees his wife and child frozen in Pinhead's world and it's just horrifying to watch them spin around on the pillar frozen. While I think the movie has some major flaws, I do give credit to it for trying something different, the only thing is maybe it's a little too different. I love Pinhead very much, but it seemed like his presence wasn't necessary. The story in itself is actually scary, we could've used another demon or at least have Pinhead leading some cenobites with him to show the bigger picture of Hell. Inferno is over all an OK movie but needs some major work in order to be a great horror picture.4/10
Just kidding, I rented 12 Monkeys the other day because I am a huge Bruce Willis fan and I heard some things about the film. Some good and some bad, but it was one of those films you had to pay attention to every second, so I was a bit worried. Just because I felt like for a minute if this was going to be one of those films that I had to watch several times to get. But I watched it last night and I was really impressed, this movie had everything in it: action, drama, sci-fi, history, dark humor, and even a little romance. The actors all did a terrific job, I give a lot of credit to Bruce, during his scene in the car with his psychiatrist, he really got to me. But Brad Pitt, I'm just amazed with how much of a great job he did. He didn't over do his character, who was crazy, and just made it work and was extremely believable. The story was just scary, but very good and a wake up call.James Cole is a man in the future where a virus broke out in the past and killed 5 billion people and only 1% of the population survived including him. Animals are now ruling the ground above while the humans are down below, but scientists send James to the past of 1990(really meaning to send him to '96), to find out about information of the virus. James gets put into a mental institution meeting his new psychiatrist, Dr. Kathryn Raily and another mental patient, Jeffrey Goines. He tells them the future, of course no one believes him, he goes back to the future. But the scientists send him back to the correct year to where the doctor is kidnapped by James, but he tells her more, and believes him. Now they are set on trying to prevent the virus from ever happening.12 Monkeys was an incredible film. Like I said the story was so scary just because it's not at all hard to believe that we are not far from that happening. But the whole movie was just great, the cast, the sets, just the whole picture was a great one. It had a Terminator type of feel to it where we might loose something precious one day, ourselves if we don't listen to others. What is right and what is wrong? Who knows? But I would highly recommend 12 Monkeys, it's a great movie that if you give it the proper chance, I'm sure you'll enjoy it.9/10
So I had the opportunity to see The Women, even though I'm not a huge fan of chick flicks, this did look a little interesting. I admit, I haven't seen the original, but I am a little curious, because from what I was seeing, this seemed like an ultra updated version that might have chopped up the original, maybe that's why there are so many harsh reviews. But just seeing this movie, it wasn't as bad as I was expecting, it's so rare we have the movies with an ALL WOMEN cast, I mean literally, no men, not even a man's voice is used in this movie, it's always put down by the guys because it's automatically going to be a "bad chick flick". But we do have a strong cast, although, I still have my doubts about Meg Ryan, not sure why she's still in movies, no offense to her, just I don't see her as a strong leading actress any more. But the story works and makes it a nice little watch for a group of friends looking for a movie.Mary seems to have it all, a rich husband, a daughter, and 3 loving friends who would do anything for her. But the bad news is her daughter and her do not get along at all, her daughter even asks for advice from her best friend, Sylvia. Then from a manicurist's mouth, she hears that her husband is cheating on her with the hot little number in perfumes, she tells her mother, her mom says to not tell her husband, make him grateful for her, the plan actually works. Mary goes home happy and relieved that her husband wants her back so badly, but then her friends tell her to get angry, she does and ends up separating with husband only to find out about herself before it's too late.The only thing I really didn't like about this film is that it has a slight message in the middle of it where it's saying how magazines are hypocritical of women today, that on the cover there's a hot young air brushed actress and on the inside it says to love yourself just the way you are, then we have 4 older but extremely attractive actresses who have in no right what so ever to complain about their looks. Meg Ryan doesn't look a day over 30, and I'm supposed to think yeah, I feel bad for her, it's understandable that her husband would see that she's slipping in the looks department, when it's the complete opposite. That's why I'm giving this movie a 5, it's enjoyable, but the message is just hypocritical. For a few chuckles, it's worth the watch, not a horrible movie, but I think I'm going to check out the original.5/10
Michael Moore, you either love or hate him, but one thing I think many people could admit is that he does bring up valid points. From violence in America to 9/11 and the Bush administration to health rights in America as well, he takes us into a darker time in our country where millions of people have lost their jobs and we are in one of the worst economic states of our history. While his documentaries are biased, I feel that this is Moore's strongest work since Bowling for Columbine. Looking into the saddest moments where people are forced out of their homes without any other solution, one of the most graphic videos of family being evicted, I couldn't hold back my tears. Then there was a town so determined to have a family brought back to their home by standing up to the police and state, again seeing how people just did the right thing and stuck their neck out to save another life was so heart warming. Moore shows the down right greed that most of the country's leaders have done to the people of the world while they get richer, we get more poor. There is no denying that Capitalism: A Love Story will send chills down your spine and remind you that there are still decent people out there willing to lend a helping hand.Moore uses an archive video to compare the modern-day America with the Roman Empire. Then shows home videos of families being evicted from their homes, as well as the Condo Vultures, whose business flourished with the increasing number of foreclosures. Moore describes back to the past "golden days" of American capitalism following World War II, and a speech by President Jimmy Carter warning Americans of the dangers of worship self-indulgence and consumption. The film then cuts to the kids for cash scandal, Captain Sullenberger's congressional testimony regarding airline pilots' poor treatment, and the exposé of dead peasant insurance policies that have companies profiting from the deaths of their employees. After referring to Dr. Jonas Salk, who selflessly gave away the patent of the polio vaccine for the public good, Moore wonders about how the brightest of America's young generation are attracted into finance instead of science. Continuing his research on the fall of our economy, our society, the good, the bad, the evil, trying to find the reason why we became so much more concerned with money over helping our neighbors.One of the things that really got to me is that he shows a bread factory in California that offers equal opportunity for all the employees and no one is ranked higher, only by position but they don't look down at their employees. Made me want to move to California and apply for that job as much as I could. While our country is trying to recover, this damage wasn't done over night and it isn't going to be fixed over night. But like Moore said is that Silk offered the cure for polio for free, not for fame or money but because it was the right thing to do. The right thing to do? Seems like a foreign sentence now a days. Moore offers us a little history and what we can do to make our country better again and how just helping someone who is in the scariest situation with their money problems or just having a roof over their head can go a long way.8/10
I have to admit, I was sick of the over advertising, but I decided to give Madagascar a chance. Lately, I've actually been getting more into the computer animation flicks and wanted to see what Madagascar was all about. I don't get why there are a lot of users here on IMDb that absolutely hate this film or didn't really get into it, because I thought it was a very cute and enjoyable film for the kids and adults.Marty, Meldman, Alex, and Gloria are all zoo kept animals who are pampered all day and entertain humans on a constant schedule. Marty wants more though, he wonders where he comes from and what it would be like to be in the wild. Alex, the lion, is truly against this and will have no part of it, but tries to find Marty after he escapes. The rest of the gang follows, but they are caught by the animal catchers and are sent back, but accidentally fall of the boat shipping them home and they end up on an island called Madagascar. They are "welcomed", if that's the right word, by other animals and must learn how to survive, but it's going to be hard when Alex is starving for meat! I loved the American Beauty and Chariot of Fire references, I thought they were just so funny! There are more than a few good laughs in this film and I felt like it was being unfairly rated here on IMDb, yes, it's not as great as The Incredables, but I really feel like anyone could love this film. I'm actually going to be on my way to buy it, I loved it that much, so please give this movie a fair chance. Believe me, it's worth your time.8/10
Well, it's better than the 5th Rocky film, but I wasn't too impressed with Rocky Balboa. I was so excited to see Rocky back in the ring, even if Sylvester Stallone is 1600 years old, I'd see Rocky XX! Well, my boyfriend and I were so excited and it was so great to be in that audience last night, the audience was cheering before the movie even started! I never saw that before! People were screaming out the famous lines of the first Rocky and having fun pretending to be Sylvester Stalone, how could anyone not be pumped up to see this film? Well, I'm going to explain the sadness that was the end in just a moment.Adrien has unfortunately passed away, their son, Robert, has grown up trying to separate himself from his famous father, and Rocky has opened up a restaurant to pass time and make some money since he doesn't box any more. But there is a new boxing heavy weight champion, Dixen, who doesn't have much pazazz like Apollo Creed, Mr. T, or Ivan Drago, instead he's kind of a gangsta of some sort. Well, everyone is thinking old school vs. new school and now Rocky must face Dixon in a not so triumphant fight that gets you pumped up and go to the gym after the movie is over.Now, normally some movies get an applause after it's done, and you'd think with this movie there would have been a standing ovation, but instead two people started clapping and one person screamed "What the hell was that!?" and someone screamed at the two people "Man, stop your clapping! Let's go home!", and my boyfriend and I looked at each other and said "That's it?". The training sequence didn't get us pumped up and excited like the others did and we didn't have the typical happy Rocky ending, what the heck?! 5/10 Rocky, I demand a rematch!
I remember laughing at my mom because she and my sister came home and told me about the trailer of "Snakes on a Plane", I was like "Who the heck would name a movie 'Snakes on a Plane'?". But they did! I was laughing even more to see Samuel L. Jackson in this movie, I thought for a minute that he had lost his mind, being such an amazing actor, was his career that desperate? The trailer just made this movie look sillier and sillier, I just couldn't believe a movie like this was being made, but my mom and I rented it today for fun and we actually had a blast watching it! After witnessing a mafia murder, the man has to travel to LA from Honalulu with an FBI agent. However, the mafia leader decides to destroy the witness on the plane before he and the other passengers land by planting hundreds of poisoness snakes in the flowers on the plane! When the snakes break free, they have a party going on! They are attacking all the passengers in the coolest deaths ever! And now the FBI agent along with the other passengers must try to land this snake pit before all the passengers die of snake poison.Snakes on a Plane is sheer entertainment and nothing more, as unrealistic as the situations are, you have to admit that it was just a blast watching this film! The deaths were just so awesome, I think my favorite was the man going to the bathroom and well... you have just got to see it! I would highly recommend Snakes on a Plane for fun! It was an awesome entertaining movie with cool effects and chilling scares, you won't be disappointed! 8/10
I was interested in seeing Turistas, from the trailer, it looked pretty scary, and I'm not afraid to admit it, I liked Hostel, it was really intense and scary. But this was just a rip off, only this time it took place in Brazil instead of Europe. The whole story could have been something better, even if it was similar to Hostel, it could have had something special to it, that's all. The problem was, not only the acting, the actors having no chemistry, but the story just didn't work, nore was the villain convincing enough. It seemed like the story was just in a rush with things and had so many plot holes.5 friends are traveling through Brazil, but when their bus crashes and they have to wait for another one. Another traveler, Pru, helps them points out that they took the wrong bus, but that there is a bar on a beach that they could check out while waiting for another bus. But things go terribly wrong when the gang wakes up from a night of partying, and they have been robbed. They go to a village to get some help, but unfortunately, they are led to a remote house where things could get from worse to... well, just a very serious and deadly situation.I think this film tried to upstage Hostel in gore and story, but all in all, it didn't work. The killer seems to be just like a little kid who got picked on too much and when he got older, he went on a power trip. Not only that, but the characters were completely unsympathetic, except for Pru, and the story was too silly and not well thought out. I wouldn't really recommend Turistas, it's just a stupid rip off of Hostel.3/10
When it comes to tales of pirates, Captain Blood is one of the best. With it's charming handsome lead actor, his beautiful leading lady and an awesome gang of swashbucklers, Captain Blood is a sure fire classic that anyone could enjoy. Errol Flynn makes such a great good guy, this story just makes you feel so good and wants to take you back to the time where the goodness of people was so prominent. Captain Blood is such a good man and takes care of those who need and deserve it most, it keeps you rooting for his character. I also loved Olivia de Havilland as Arabella, she was so lovely and kind. Once again the chemistry between these two was just amazing and really worked so well for this film. Their "meet cute" is one of the most memorable moments for me, I loved how she saved him and he wasn't exactly so grateful, but once he has the moment to do it for her, she acts with the same gratitude towards him. They were so beautiful together and added a wonderful romance to the film. This is a classic story of the good triumphing over evil and gives us great "pirattitude".Dr. Peter Blood is convicted of treason against the King for aiding a wounded friend who had participated in the rebellion in accordance of his professional duties. He is sentenced to death, but by the whim of king James II Peter Blood and the Rebellion is sold into slavery in the English colony of Port Royal. Peter Blood is purchased by Arabella Bishop the beautiful niece of the local military commander Colonel Bishop. During a Spanish raid on the town, Doctor Blood and his fellow slaves escape, steal the Spanish ship and begin a life of piracy. When the old governor is unable to contain the pirate menace, Colonel Bishop is promoted to his post. Several years later, Arabella and a royal emissary, Lord Willoughby, are captured for ransom by Blood's treacherous partner, Captain Levasseur. Blood purchases them himself, relishing the opportunity to turn the tables on his former owner. Blood decides to take Arabella and Lord Willoughby to the safety of Port Royal. As they approach the port, they sight two French warships attacking the colony leading into a brutal pirate battle to save his true love and get back to the life that was intended for him without comprising his morals.Honestly, I cannot think of any flaws with this film, it just depends on your taste. I personally love classic movies and old Hollywood. Also if you love pirate movies, this is definitely one not to be missed, it's like the King of pirate movies. This is the movie that was Pirates of the Caribbean of 1935, before Johnny Depp there was Errol Flynn. Only problem is, some people might find this movie to be a bit dated. But I did love it, I'm already looking to buy it on DVD. I loved that classic ending, Captain Blood knows he's the new sheriff and plays with Arabella a bit to get her to admit that she loves him, then when the former sheriff comes in and they tease him with that smug grin on their faces, I just couldn't stop laughing. This is a great movie, I think that this is just a fun swashbuckling tale with the old Hollywood twist. Captain Blood is not to be missed by any film lover, Errol Flynn is one of the best actors to play a great good guy.10/10
Lemony Snicket's A Series of Unfortunate Events was a silent hit of 2004, I remember I wasn't too sure if I wanted to see it or not because it just looked too dark for what I thought it was intended to be, a family film. But I was looking for a movie to watch yesterday and decided to go ahead and give the movie a chance. While I still think it was too dark for a family film, I thought that it was still a great film and the crew did a remarkable job of bringing the story to life. Normally while Jim Carrey can over do his roles that have this type of character, he actually portrayed Count Orlof extremely well and did a terrific job. I'm in some ways surprised that he didn't get more notice for this film. He, Meryl Streep, Billy O'Connelly really brought Lemony Snicket's A Series of Unfortunate Events to life. The sets and costumes were marvelous and the story was a frightening but imaginative one that I'm sure any film fan would enjoy to watch.Three children: Klas, Violet, and Sunny have just lost their parents and home to a horrible fire. They are left in the hands of one of their "closest" friends, the scary looking and crazy Count Orlof. The count makes the kids do his chores and makes them cook dinner for him and his friends, but the one thing he does want is the children's inheritance from their parents. After attempting to kill them, they are taken to a safer guardian, but Orlof isn't going to give up so easily, he is going to go through as many guardians as it takes to get back these children.Lemony Snicket's A Series of Unfortunate Events is a terrific film, I was incredibly impressed, I'm glad I decided to give it a chance. It had good comic relief, but also had some thrilling moments, while I don't think it's a good idea to give this film completely to the kids, it's a family thriller type of film that I'm sure could be enjoyed. I know there are a lot of kids that wanna have a more grown up genre they could watch and this might be the film for them. I do recommend it for watch, this film is definitely worth the look. Not to mention, for once it was nice that they didn't over do it with the baby comedy, she was actually cute and funny. You'll see what I mean when you watch it, you'll be happy too, the kids are very likable and so are the rest of the characters.8/10
Bruce Almighty, the comedy that was released with Jim Carrey was more of a pure comedy type of movie. We now have the sequel Evan Almighty starring Steve Carell. With Steve's promising career, mostly in comedy, this seemed like a guaranteed hit. I didn't get to see it over the summer unfortunately, but I figured I would wait for the rental since it wasn't getting the best reviews. So I watched this movie tonite and I have to say that this film was cute and entertaining, worth one watch, but it was more of one of those cheesy comedies that didn't seem to please as much as the original with Jim Carrey. Steve did fine, I think it was just the story and how it turned too much into one of those typical family comedies that overdoes it on the cheese.Evan is a news anchor turned politician who is about to make it in high ranks in Washington, D.C. But his family life isn't going so well, he makes promises to his kids all the time, and doesn't keep them. One day while he prays to God that he needs help and wants to change the world, God does come to him and tells him there will be a flood and he needs a man who will build an ark for animals and humans to survive. Of course, Evan doesn't believe him, but eventually gets it on how important he is, so he and his family come together to build the ark. But his career is going to have to take the back seat if he's going to get this done on time.Evan Almighty, don't get me wrong, it was a cute movie, I would agree while it should have been more of a pure comedy, it was a good family film. Like I said, I just wished it could've been more like the first Almighty where it was just the most wrong guy for the job type of a movie than a man who needs to get close to his family. But, it's all good, the cast looked like they actually enjoyed making this film and I loved the 40 year old virgin reference, cheesy little laugh. So Evan Almighty is worth a watch, but I wouldn't go for another watch again for a while.6/10
My friend just bought Doom and was bragging about how much she loved the movie, so she lent it to me because she was so upset that I never saw it. I've seen over 1,000 movies, yet she was surprised I never saw Doom, and I loved the movie and video game Mortal Kombat, she said that if I loved those, I should enjoy Doom. Doom is such a mix of a B sci-fi flick from the 80's with video game footage starring The Rock.Basically from what I gathered it's about these aliens who have been experimented on and have escaped their hatches attacking the scientists who did the research on them. Now the whole plant is in trouble, but a group of futuristic soldiers will fight and take on these creatures, but it's a matter of finding out what they're up against and what happened to them, because these creatures are now turning them into the hideous monsters as well! I loved the action, it had some great and exciting scenes, the special effects were pretty cool. I just wished they didn't add the corny view from camera like the video game, to me it's like you're just making another video game, but this is a movie. The acting is typically pretty bad, but it's wanted in a great type of action flick like this one, so I think I'm kinda fifty fifty on deciding wither I loved this movie or hated it.5/10
I have been dying to see The Wild, but I basically had to track it down since I couldn't find it at my lovely Hollywood Video store, lucky enough I found it at a little video store called Blockbuster. :P It just looked like a fun film and I unfortunately never got to see the movie in the theater, so I had to wait for the rental. Over all, I'd say that The Wild was a pretty good family film, but seemed like it could've been a better story.Samson and Ryan are the main attraction at the zoo, the lions! Well, Ryan is a cub who is finding it very hard to find his great roar! He wants to see what the wild is like from the stories his dad told him, one night he and his dad get into a big fight and Ryan, in anger, gets on a crate heading for the wild, but realizes he shouldn't have and ends up trapped. Samson and his group of friends head to the wild to find Ryan and end up discovering that they have no idea what they're doing! I did like The Wild, and I know that it was made before Madagascar, but I think I liked Madagascar better, or at least it was funnier. But still, I wouldn't shy away from The Wild, it just could've been presented a little better I think. But it's a great cast, terrific animation, and in general a good family film.6/10
Another film that just makes you more afraid and non trusting of secret societies, makes you wonder if they will ever make a movie that praises these groups. Well, we have The Skulls which I watched today and I have to say that I wasn't so sure to trust this movie. We've seen the whole "don't trust anybody" plot a million times before. Joshua Jackson was so popular with his Dawson's Creek era and I wondered why they would put him in a lead role, pretty much for the money. But I gave the movie a fair chance and wasn't too disappointed. It's very predictable and has some flaws to it, but overall it does provide entertainment. The story has been done to death, but beggars can't be choosers in this Hollywood.Luke McNamara is a college student with aspirations to eventually become a lawyer. He attends Yale along with his girlfriend Chloe and his best friend Will. Luke's friendships hit the rocks when he is invited to join a secret society known as "The Skulls." As a member of the Skulls, Luke is partnered with Caleb, and the two quickly strike up a friendship. Eventually Will, who has been conducting research on the Skulls for some time, discovers their secret ritual room. Will gets caught in the ritual room by Caleb and in the ensuing struggle he falls and is knocked unconscious. Caleb is ordered to leave the room by his father, after which one of Litten's cronies breaks Will's neck. The skulls manage to move the body and make it look like Will committed suicide in his dorm room. But Luke knows there's more to the story than it looks.The acting is alright; for the most part Jackson does a decent job in the leading role. But they could have had someone who was a bit stronger considering that every line that Jackson said in the end was made for the trailer pretty much. Paul Walker, again, more used because he was just the hottie of the time, he was OK. No major stand out performances, Craig T. Nelson is the most cartoon villain I've seen in a while. The only thing that was missing was the lightening in the background as he's laughing manically at the Skulls meetings . But the film works on the story pretty well, it keeps the tension, even though there are unbelievable moments. I seriously love how this secret group is possibly going to be apart of the CIA or FBI one day, part of the government top secret, yet doesn't realize that when they murder someone, they should check the room for security cameras. But the scares are captured with Joshua not being able to go to anyone to find help for his room mate's murder. It's hard to say if I would recommend this film, it's just alright and average. I think there are some good moments and bad one's, it's certainly flawed and made for the teens, but I think the adults could find something good from the story. It just needed a little more work. 5/10
I heard a little bit about Black Christmas a couple years ago when I was watching on TV the scariest movies of all time, Black Christmas wasn't high on the list, but it was in there, and I remember looking at some of the clips they showed and I was completely scared. They also remade the movie and I was curious to see the original first before I saw the remake, the strange thing is when I watched this movie, it sent chills down my spine. Normally most horror movies don't do that, it'll get you scared, but don't get to you like Black Christmas did, this movie just gave me everything I could want from a horror film. Those calls were just so beyond creepy, the voice, you knew what was coming to these girls for the holidays and it wasn't going to be peace on Earth. My only problem with this movie... "Whatever you do... DON'T GO UP THOSE STAIRS!" said by a policeman, what does the girl do? Oh, she goes upstairs, but I guess we wouldn't have a movie if she did the sensible thing.Some sorority girls are spending their Christmas vacation at the house and are just going to enjoy the holidays together. But after some disturbing phone calls with men heavily breathing, making foul sexual suggestions, and even involving blood curdling screams, the girls have a bit of a scare when the mysterious stranger won't stop calling. Something else has happened, one of the sisters has gone missing, when the girls along with some of their friends try to figure out how these calls and the disappearances of other sorority sisters, the might not want to know where the call is coming from.Black Christmas is a classic and should definitely be watched in the dark, this movie just had me scared and wanting more. It makes you wanna just stay in your room and unplug the phone, we all get prank phone calls at least once, but this is our worst nightmare is when those calls are just more than a mear threat. Olivia Hussy was a great selection, I've only seen her in Romeo and Juliet and the TV mini series IT, I didn't know as a teen she could be so great for a horror movie. Like I said there are some cliché's that I was a little angry with, but this movie does deliver some good scares and will not disappoint you, it's a true sleepover classic.8/10
In the 1930's when films were still a pretty new concept, sequels didn't really exist. But then came the Universal Monsters and audiences wanted more. These monsters were so terrifying that people craved for the stories to continue. But how could we continue the Dracula story when it's known that Dracula is killed at the end of the film? We were given Dracula's Daughterwhich who knew? Dracula must've really gotten around in those 500 years, I'm sure there's a Maury episode with his name on it somewhere with several other kids saying "Yes, you're a blood sucking batBut are you my father?". Anyways, there was a sequel created for Dracula following his bloodline in a very creative twist that was different at the time where the Countess wanted to be normal.Count Dracula has just been destroyed by Professor Von Helsing. Von Helsing is taken by police, where he explains that he indeed did destroy Count Dracula, but because he had already been dead for over 500 years, it cannot be considered murder. Instead of hiring a lawyer, he enlists the aid of a psychiatrist, Dr. Jeffrey Garth. Meanwhile, Dracula's daughter, Countess Marya Zaleska, with the aid of her servant, Sandor, steals Dracula's body from Scotland Yard and burns it, hoping to break her curse of vampirism. However, her thirst for blood has not been quenched and that all that is in her eyes is "Death". After a chance meeting with Dr. Garth at a society party, the Countess asks him to help her overcome the influence she feels from beyond the grave. She starts to have feelings for Jeffrey, but the woman he loves might be an obstacle that the countess will have to take care of.I really did like this movie over all. I liked how the story went with the countess, she was beautiful, tragic and cunning. Gloria Holden pulls in a great creepy performance as the countess and was absolutely beautiful and hypnotic(no pun intended). One thing that I have to mention that I found funny in this movie was in the beginning when the police ask Van Helsing what's going on and why he killed Dracula. Van Helsing replies that he can't kill a man who's already dead and that Dracula has been dead for 500 yearsyeah, I'm sure that'll hold up in court really well: cut to the insane asylum with electric shock treatment. I also did find some of the music a little off as most of the time it did seem a little light hearted when there were some genuinely creepy moments. But with the proper lighting, the make up, the story and the terrific performances, Daughter of Dracula was a real treat. It's sad that this film didn't get as much notice as Bride of Frankenstein when it came to the Universal sequels for the monsters. But I'm glad that I checked out this little treasure, it's a good film. I would recommend it for anyone looking for a scary movie for the night. Plus, it makes you think about what it would be like to have Dracula as a daddy: stay up late, don't get in trouble for killing people and get to party in eternal life while staying beautiful forever. You know, maybe I'll go on that Maury episode and hope that he reads "DraculaYou ARE the father!".8/10
Well at least the trailer was scary, from the moment I saw the trailer for The Unborn I knew I wanted to see this movie, it looked so freaky and like the ultimate scare. So before it left theaters, I finally saw it and I should've realized, it's PG-13, how rare is it that we get a PG-13 horror movie that is actually scary? Sadly all the "intense" moments were shown in the trailer and I was extremely disappointed with this lousy movie. I couldn't believe how bad it was, it once again has every cliché in a horror film that you can imagine: the black best friend, the loving boyfriend, the hot skinny girl who is constantly in her underwear, the jumps, the mirrors, the nightmares, the over acting. I do have one question: did Gary Oldman owe someone a favor when he took this film? It's just mind-boggling, he's this terrific actor and he was in this really predictable stupid story? Well, hopefully he'll recover soon from this sad excuse for a horror film.Casey Beldon is plagued by merciless dreams, visions of strange looking dogs, and an evil child with bright blue eyes. Casey is baby-sitting Matty, her neighbor's son. He is upstairs, supposedly taking a nap. Casey is downstairs talking on the phone to her best friend Romey. Suddenly, there is a voice that says "Jumby wants to be born now," on the baby monitor used for Matty's baby sister. After yelling, "Matty, are you awake?" Casey goes upstairs to check on them. Matty was standing over the baby's crib, holding a mirror to the baby's face. After being hit with the mirror, Casey's eyes begin to change color and she learns she had a twin brother who died in the womb. Casey begins to suspect that the spirit haunting her is the soul of her dead twin, being possessed by a dybbuk, wanting to be born so it can transfer to the world of the living. Casey meets a woman named Sofi, who is revealed to be her grandmother. Sofi explains that she had a twin brother who was killed in Nazi experiments in Auschwitz when they were both just children. The boy was brought back to life by a dybbuk who intended to use his body as a portal into the world of the living. Sofi killed her twin to stop the dybbuk, and now it haunts her family for revenge. Sofi refers Casey to Rabbi Sendak, who can perform a Jewish exorcism to remove the dybbuk.This was a huge disappointment, I wouldn't really recommend it. The acting and writing were over done, what could have made this more realistic or scary is just a touch up on the writing. The lead actress Odette Yustman really needs experience, she was just alright in the film. Of course I love the cliché of the crazy black best friend who calls her crazy at first but then all of a sudden is attacked at last second. If you do watch this, if you want a good scare, turn on the lights, I admit there are still some freaky moments, better than most of the PG-13 horror movies, but the story was just bad. It just could have been a lot better.3/10
I am in no way a Will Ferrell fan, I know that sounds bad, but he just doesn't make me laugh. So I had hesitations about seeing Blades of Glory, not to mention that it had Jon Heder in it, once again, another actor who doesn't make me laugh. But my mom wanted to see Blades of Glory so badly, so I rented it and we watched it together, I really have to admit that I actually laughed. Over all, Blades of Glory is a fun movie with some fun laughs and gags. Will and Jon actually clicked very well and were a perfect combo, it seemed like they really enjoyed working together. Also, I think the thing that worked for me is that they broke out of their typical characters that they play, they were no longer the leading role, but actually worked as partners. The story was definitely entertaining and reminded me of Zoolander, only with... synchronized skaters.Chazz Michael Michaels is a former porn star turned ice skater and is also a sex addict, but he's doing very well in the Olympics along with his component Jimmy MacElroy, an orphan adopted by a rich millionaire who is also a champion skater. They both are fighting like crazy and end up loosing their medals due to their constant battles. But when they want to return so badly to the ice, they are allowed only if they have a partner, and they get one, only this time, they're the partners to turn in the most exciting performances. But the duo they're competing against, the Waldenburg siblings are going to make sure that they fail and fall flat on the ice.Blades of Glory is a fun comedy that I have to admit was a lot better than I thought it was going to be. The scene that definitely got me is the chase sequence between Chazz and Stranz, when they have their skates on and they're on the marble floors was just priceless. I think I would recommend this, definitely if you enjoy comedies like Zoolander, this is right up your alley. Will and Jon were terrific together, the only thing that really makes me laugh is how Brokeback Mountain bothers people, but they can watch Blades of Glory easily.6/10
I remember my parents being such fans of Mad Max when I was a kid, but the movie looked so boring in my eyes. I never really wanted to get into it, I mean, I was a kid after all. But a few years ago in my film appreciation class, we were watching clips from Mad Max 2 when studying Australian films and I was intrigued with it. I finally remembered a few weeks ago how I wanted to see the three movies, so I just watched Mad Max and I have to say that I understand it's cult following. Mad Max promises and delivers, it's a low budget action film, but has a terrific story and excellent stunts. Mel Gibson, before he was Mel Gibson in Hollywood, you could see why he made it so big, his presence on screen is truly hypnotic and he makes a great hero. This story is so scary in the fact that I don't think that we are far from this future.Max Rockatansky lives in a time where his country has been taken over by violent, vicious motorcycle gang members who just go around torturing and killing people. Max and a few friends are the last members of the "semi" police force that is trying to get things back under control and bring some peace to their town. But when the gang messes with Max's friend by nearly burning him alive, Max is ticked and goes after them. But when the gang messes with Max's wife and child and kills them, oh, they've gone too far and now it's personal.Mad Max's plot is basic and can be considered typical, but it's a fun action movie that truly delivers. The action sequences were really exciting, especially Max's revenge sequence, he was so amazing and I don't remember the last time I rooted so hard for the good guy to win. Mel Gibson was really cool and I had a good time watching Mad Max. I'm looking forward to the sequels. I would recommend this movie for a watch, it's a fun cult classic that I'm sure any action fan would enjoy.7/10
Never so quickly have I seen a franchise get whored out in Hollywood. A couple of years ago the world was hit with Paranormal Activity, making you wonder what happens when you're asleep. It's the most successful independent movie ever, with a small budget of fifteen thousand and making over a hundred million is just incredible. But with big hype comes a lot of back lash. I personally loved that film and it's one of my favorite horror movies, taking the simplicity of what's in the dark fears from our childhood and making our imaginations go crazy. Since the film was a huge success, Hollywood naturally called on a sequel. Paranormal Activity 2 was released a year later, pretty much claiming the Saw franchise money. Paranormal Activity 2 was an alright film, it wasn't as scary because we knew what to expect and with bigger budget the effects could be a little too over the top at times. Paranormal Activity 3 was advertised and I was thinking that this film was a mistake, but I was just curious where they were taking the story so I saw it opening night and this film blew me away. What a scary movie and so perfect to add to the franchise making me want plenty more.In 1988, young Katie and Kristi live with their mother, Julie, and her boyfriend, Dennis. Kristi begins interacting with an invisible friend named Toby. Dennis notices that since Kristi's friend appeared, strange things have been happening in the house. While reviewing some footage later, Dennis notices a strange incident with presence being shown on camera. He invites his friend Randy over to view the footage, who suggests that Dennis place cameras throughout the house to capture any other incidents. After more disturbed nights and strange occurrences, Dennis discovers a strange symbol in the girls' closet. He finds the same symbol on a picture of women in a book about mysticism. Dennis explains to Julie that the symbol belonged to a witches coven that brainwashed young girls into having sons. Thus explaining more about the two previous films.A couple of flaws with the film being that one being based in 1988, the film sure does look very crisp with it's picture. Wonder where the guy got his video, obviously not Wal Mart. Secondly, there are still some questions left unanswered, maybe due to the overwhelming success of the first film the writers had to do what they could with Katie's story. Only explanation being in this film is that the cult brainwashes people, so maybe Katie and Kristi had a different story in the previous films due to the spell. However, this film scared the heck out of me, which takes a lot. The beginning does start off a little silly to me, since again, you know what is going to happen. But not even 25 minutes into the film, it does pick up again. The last fifteen minutes had me frozen to my seat. A lot of people are complaining that the trailer has completely different scenes than from the movie, I personally like it that way because it keeps the film fresh and has you guessing. The "bloody Mary" scene in the film is much more scary than in the trailer in my opinion. Paranormal Activity 3 really did raise the bar and I'm so glad. The characters a likable and the effects are actually top notch and done effectively. There's a scene with the babysitter where the demon is wearing a blanket and is standing right behind her, believe me you'll have such major goose bumps from that scene. If you like scary movies, you're going to love this film, I can't wait for the fourth one and I'm glad that we finally went back to the basics of a good ghost story. Though my suggestions to the characters: stop filming the demon! That's obviously ticking him off.8/10
Jumper, I remember when this was released, I had no interest in seeing it, I mean, this movie just looked too over done and was hoping it would flop. It did make number one at the box office, but was getting terrible reviews, so I was pretty sure I wouldn't want to see this even on rental. But I decided to go ahead and give it a shot. What would I have to loose? It was a free rental; so I watched it the other day and actually I was pretty surprised, now I did like most of the movie. But there were some pretty silly moments here and there that I didn't like. I mean, I love Samuel L. Jackson, who doesn't? The man is awesome at yelling and cursing, but the line "There are always consequences!" was a little too cheesy, not to mention what was with the sno-cone look? But I thought the effects and story was pretty cool for what it was.David is a teen who doesn't exactly have a loving father, a school where everyone picks on him, except for his crush, Millie, and has discovered that he can do something pretty cool, he can jump from where he is to anywhere he wants too in the world. He takes the chance and runs away, he robs a few banks to make it on his own and is living the high life. He even comes back to his home town 8 years later, taking Millie to Rome on a plane making it look like he's just successful in life. But he has a problem, things are too good to be true when these men who are witch hunters track him down, the leader, Rolland, is on his tail to kill him. But another jumper, Griffin, decides to help David and they team up to battle against Rolland.Jumper is a fun movie at times, but I felt like the ending just collapsed, the story had good concepts. Just I thought it could be predictable and the girlfriend of his, Millie, I mean, I know she restrained a bit, but when David finally tells her, she does still accept everything pretty well. But I know how the audience is, they want them to be together, come on, two hot actors, they definitely want their hotness to be combined, right? Well, as for a recommendation, I am glad that I waited for the rental, because honestly, this movie was a little silly at times, but it's worth the look. It has cool effects, a decent cast, and makes me want to be a jumper as well.6/10
If there is one thing that I love, it's action movies, even buddy cop films. So when I saw the trailer for The Other Guys, I knew I wanted to see it. Even though I'm not a Will Ferrell fan, I love Mark Wahlberg and the whole idea about this film seemed just great. The Other Guys delivers in with the laughs and action, but there's unfortunately something missing from it that could have made it into a great film. When I saw the trailer, I thought I had the film figured out, Sam Jackson and The Rock are these two awesome action cops who are just unstoppable but then we compare to the average Joe's who aren't Arnold Schwartzenegger and Bruce Willis. Unfortunately, Sam Jackson and The Rock are taken away in the first 10 minutes of the film and we're stuck with Mark and Will for the rest of the time. The first half of the film was really funny, there were a lot of good jokes and I just had a great time laughing. I wish that they kept Sam and The Rcok around because the guys that Will and Mark were competing with were dorks and didn't work. The ending of the film fell flat and didn't know when to quit.Detectives Danson and Highsmith are pursuing a group of robbers in a van. After a brief firefight that results in the hood of Highsmith's car getting blown into the windshield, the two inadvertently crash into the side of a double decker bus. Danson drives it after the robbers and meticulously slingshots the trapped car out the other side of the bus and crashing into a building, inexplicably surviving. But they are not our hero's of the film as they are quickly killed off. Detective Allen Gamble, a forensic accountant who's more interested in paperwork than hitting the streets, and Detective Terry Hoitz, who has been stuck with Allen as his partner ever since shooting Derek Jeter. Allen and Terry idolize Danson and Highsmith and receive absolutely no respect from the other officers. When an opportunity arises for Terry and Allen to step up, things don't quite go as planned. As things get worse, Allen and Terry are forced to split up. However, Allen still tries to solve the crime on his own even though Terry thinks it is a dead end. He finally gets credible evidence and earns his gun back. Allen finally convinces Terry to rejoin him and as things begin to go well, the other guys of course realize they are not Danson and Highsmith.Now The Other Guys is good enough for a rental, there are some really great laughs. I did love the joke between Mark, Will and Eva Mendes. Will's character is this straight laced accountant, but is married to a bombshell like Eva and Mark just can't figure out why she married him. Also Will's ex's are these beautiful women, Mark is just dumbfounded but it was a great joke. Even though I hated that The Rock and Sam were taken so quickly, their exit scene was beyond hilarious. Like I said, it's not a bad movie by any means, it just didn't know how to end and had several pointless scenes/stories. Mark has an ex love who wasn't much purpose for the film, the villain had too much plot for a simple story and some of the jokes dragged on a little too long. I really wanted to love this film, even though Will Ferrell was in it, I even accepted him and went along with the story. I was just a little disappointed because the movie had so much more potential. It just needed a little more work, because frankly The Rock and Sam Jackson could have carried the film alone with their story and would have been a great comedy. In fact, I think I have an idea don't you get any ideas! I'm off to Hollywood.6/10
Transformers was definitely one of the big summer blockbusters of 2007, but I never bothered seeing it in the movie theater because I never watched the cartoon when I was a kid. I was a Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles girl; so basically since I never watched Transformers or played with the toys I figured I would never understand the movie, so why bother? But my friend and her boyfriend saw it opening night, and she's the same as me where she never watched the cartoon, but she said that this was a great film. So I figured I would just wait until the rental just so I can say I wasn't part of the hype that was this summer of the Transformers. So I watched Transformers last night and I have to say that I am amazed, I really did like the movie. It was filled with exciting action sequences, cool dialog, and amazing effects. The story also worked very well and the actors seemed to enjoy doing the movie.Sam is a teenage boy who is just looking forward to getting his very first car, his dad helps him get a used car that looks pretty busted up and not very special. But that proves to be a wrong theory, one night Sam thinks his car is being stolen when it is driving off. He chases after it and finds out that the car is an alien robot from outer space. He then finds more of these "Autobots" who are at war with the "Decepticons" and are after a box that will give them unlimited power and could possibly destroy Earth. So the Autobots are there to help Sam and his friends to save the world before the Decepticons can destroy it.Transformers is a great action movie, it occasionally has it's little flaws here and there, I mean when you really think about it, this is just one of those kick butt action movies. But it is a very well done film and I was really impressed on how great job the crew put this movie together. To be honest I now wish that I saw this in the theater because it must have been more exciting to see on the big screen. I would recommend it though, but watch it on a large screen television if you get the chance, I think you'll get the better effect, because that's the only way to watch an action movie.8/10
I'm on a little goal to see the sci-fi films from the 1950's, so The Thing from Another World was next on my list. I remember watching this with my father when I was a kid, but it bored me to death, I didn't think it was scary at all. But I didn't want to write a movie comment on it until I could see it again as an adult. So I watched it this morning and I have a new look on this film, first off, I love the subtle history in these sci-fi films, I liked how the scientist that wanted to explore the alien looks Russian, and of course this was made during the cold war era, so as usual the Russian looking guy gets it. But this movie also stands out against other horror movies, it's one of the first horror movies that takes place in an isolated area, the cold and harsh weather of the North Pole. Granted, I'm still not scared of this film, but I definitely appreciate it a lot more now that I can see what The Thing from Another World was expressing to it's 1951 audience.A group of scientists in the North Pole have discovered a round ship underneath the ice, they thaw out the pilot. Still in ice, they take him back to their lab to melt the ice, but maybe that's not such a good idea since the pilot is a man killing alien from another world! He escapes the lab and starts the killing spree, the group gets together to take him down, but the bullets are failing and this thing will not stop until he's killed them all.Now I do recommend John Carpenter's remake, I think it had better character development vs. the original. But still there is something very special about The Thing from Another World, it's the first real sci-fi film that came out of the 50's, and is still very creepy. The scene where they set the alien on fire was definitely intense and scary to watch. The Thing from Another World is a great sci-fi classic that I'm sure any film lover could enjoy, I just wish I could go back in time and see this in the drive-in, lol.8/10
Ever since District 9, a whole new door has been opened to alien and sci-fi films everywhere. It seems like that was the film it took to inspire people to go back into the genre and we were cursed with Battle L.A. I think I nearly had a seizure after leaving the movie theater, my friends and I could barely stand our heads hurt so much. I mean the shaky cam effect, we can handle to an extent, but this was just a horrible story. Believe me when I say that the critics are right on this one. I honestly don't understand how there could be one positive review on this movie because it's ugly, it's stupid and it's such American propaganda. Seriously, every 5 minutes there is some kind of "Marines Rule!" speech being thrown at you. I can tell you that they failed because my friends and I agreed that if this were to ever happen in real life, we would just join the army and do the thinking for the marines who shoot first and ask questions later. There were so many flaws with this film that I don't even know where to begin, but I will tell you about the "story" first as hard as some moments were to follow as they wouldn't stop moving the camera every 2 seconds.On August 11th, mysterious objects thought to be meteorites crash into Earth's oceans near several major cities including LA. These objects are revealed to be spacecraft containing hostile extraterrestrial forces. U.S. Marines arrive in LA to defend against alien ground forces and assist in the evacuation of civilians in preparation for a bombing campaign. They learn that the alien force consists solely of ground forces at the moment, with no air support to speak of; the USAF plans to commence saturation bombing of the Santa Monica area. The platoon's mission is to rescue civilians from an LAPD police station within three hours. As they advance through the city, they are ambushed by aliens and suffer casualties. Eventually, the combined team reaches the police station, finding five civilians but now must try to escape the city alive before the bombing happens.Like I said between the propaganda of trying to get you to join the marines, there were so many problems with this film, it wasn't funny. First off, we are being invaded by aliens, wouldn't you want to capture one of the aliens and study them and find out why they are attacking us instead of just shooting them? I guess with this sick video game generation, it's get more points vs. intelligence. Secondly, then when they capture an alien to find out how to kill it, since they're not going down with one bullet, two characters literally go through layers and layers of their armor and skin and took over 15 minutes to find what was their weakness, then all of a sudden after that, killing the aliens with a gun seemed to be no problem. Thirdly, we go into the ultimate clichés of screaming "Hoo-Haw! Marines!" with every war cliché that you could imagine. Just take District 9 meets Full Metal Jacket and you have Battle L.A. Fourthly, this film was way too long and dragged on forever, I try so hard to make it through a film, but I was extremely tempted to walk out on this one. And fifth, who the heck where these characters? We go through everyone so fast that we barely know who they are and don't care when they die or get injured since honestly I don't care about them! This was an awful movie and was way over the top filled with clichés, bless you if you made it through this mess in the theater because I should go over to the director's house and hit him over the head with the script until he has the headache that his movie gave me.1/10
Adam Sandler was recently given on MTV the Generation Award, he was praised for all the "comedy" has given us, from the good old days from Saturday Night Live all the way up to I Now Pronounce You Chuck and Larry. Back in the good old days up to Big Daddy Adam Sandler has always delivered big laughs and was a always a pleasure to watch on screen. But unfortunately, he's come out lately with the very predictable comedies where you could predict who was going to be in it, what lines would be said and what out come would happen. It hasn't been fun; Adam has also brought some dramatic roles that surprised us all such as Spanglish and Reign Over Me. He now brought us You Don't Mess with the Zohan going back into the funny accent like he did with his smash hit The Waterboy, sometimes offending us and sometimes just giving us some great laughs.Zohan is the top terrorist hunter in Isreal, everything could just keep going for him, but he hates all the fighting and his life long dream is to actually be a hair stylist. He fakes his death and runs away to America to start his dream, but things don't go so smoothly at first. After defending a man, Michael, from a jerk, Michael takes Zohan in. Zohan finds a little hair salon, he starts off as a sweeper, but then after a stylist quits, he takes a client and does a great job as well as, well, giving her all the satisfaction she could have. Zohan brings the shop's popularity back up while finding his true love, Dalia. But when a taxi driver that Zohan insulted sees him, all the hatred comes back to Zohan ten fold.You Don't Mess with the Zohan is a lot better than I Now Pronounce You Chuck and Larry in my opinion, but it's still not Sandler's best comedy. I don't think he's had such a great hit since The Wedding Singer, his comedies have just become so predictable and just... I know this is a bad word, dumb. You Don't Mess with the Zohan is offensive at times, I'm a white American, and I was offended for the Isreali culture, because Adam does take it a little far. Not to mention the hummus joke goes farther than it really should. But I do admit, there are some funny parts, I did laugh when he went into the children's salon and gave this kid the pinch and knocked him out. Sounds horrible, it's a funny scene though. You Don't Mess with the Zohan has it's moments, but if you ask me, I would recommend to wait for the rental.5/10
I wasn't too interested in seeing Rumor Has It, I'm not that huge of a fan of Jennifer Anniston's, she's alright, but usually, her romantic comedies are just bland and predictable. But I figured I got it as a free rental and what the heck? Who knows? I might actually get a kick out of it. And it did exceed my expectations, but still that wasn't saying too much. I thought the story was extremely interesting and it had some good moments with light laughter, but like I said, it could've been better with direction.Basically, Sarah is an engaged woman who is coming home for her sister's wedding. She is still concerned with why her and her father have never really been the same, looks and personality wise, but when her aunt, cameo by Kathy Bates, tells her about an old flame of her mother's, Sarah is curious to why her grandmother was also attracted to him. Maybe it's because her family is actually the Robinsons from the Graduate story! She flies to see the author of the book and her possible father and finds out that he's sterile and can't have kids. So, she sleeps with him when she's drunk, sick, I know, and messes up a possible future with a great guy.It was predictable and a bit silly, but like I said, you'll get a couple light laughs. I think the story was very good, but they could've cleared a few things up a little better, because the beginning I was still a little confused, but it worked itself out. Over all, I'd recommend this for an afternoon movie, but it's nothing too special.6/10
I rented this movie for my cousin, it was his pick and we watched it as soon as we got home, he loved it! I seriously was expecting this big travesty of a film with the way the users are talking about it on IMDb, but I have to honestly say that it wasn't THAT bad, come on, it's a kid's movie, what did you expect? Citizen Kane? For the kids it had a fun plot and cool visuals, yeah, the story was a little lame, but as adults we should know that this movie was not meant for us, so I am going to judge it on being a children's movie.These kids all have super powers, but don't know how to use them effectively, so the program of Zoom is going to help them become super heroes with a man who was a former celebrity type of hero who is now a has-been. They enjoy being kids with each other and learn how to use their powers in the right ways and must destroy Conor, another former super hero who went bad. Together they all must learn to a team and also a family.Like I said, for a kid's movie, it's cute and it really wasn't a BAD movie, I've seen worse, believe me! So don't use most of these comments as your judgment factor, see how the kids react and really judge for yourself, it's a fun little flick that I wouldn't watch again, but I think it will be a fun small classic somewhere down the road for the children.5/10
I was excited about seeing Dreamgirls, especially after seeing the Oscar nods it got. But I still wasn't too sure about Jennifer Hudson's win, after all, before I saw this film, I saw Babel, and the Hispanic actress who was nominated I felt totally deserved the award. But how can you judge before seeing what Jennifer Hudson's raved about performance was all about. Now I have to start off with that actually this was a good film, but you know what? It was average, nothing thrilling or original came out of it. It's your typical rise and fall story that had nothing special or had no spark. Jennifer's performance was good for a first time, but I still wasn't too thrown over it. The story is just so abused and too used by so many writers.Curtis is looking for a backup group for his famous singer, James Early. He finds the Dreamettes, three beautiful and strong black women, he also becomes involved with one of them. Slowly they rise to the top, but Effie, the girl is involved with is not exactly "thin" or that "appealing" to a younger crowd, so with her girlfriends in the group, her brother, and her new boyfriend, Curtis, they vote her out of the group and the Dreamettes become huge, but the joke is on Curtis when Effie gets a second chance.The performances were the key that got raved about most in the film, now I have to say that they were good, but honestly, it was nothing beyond good. I don't have anything against Jennifer Hudson, but I am very upset with all the publicity she is getting now for one film and an Oscar that I believe doesn't belong to her, but I know there are some that wouldn't agree with me. Eddie didn't thrill me either, I've actually seen him in better, but I have to admit the only performance I was actually, and surprisingly, impressed with was Beyonce Knowles, she has come a long way. So, I'm not sure if I would recommend this film, if you wanna watch it, go ahead, but don't expect too much.6/10
A couple years ago I saw that little movie we called National Treasure, sorta like the new Indiana Jones wanna-be, I didn't get into the film. But the sequel National Treasure: Book of Secrets came last year and I had again no interest in seeing the movie, but my mom bought the film and wanted to watch it together, so I figured to just sit through it, it actually wasn't as bad as I was expecting. But I actually not only thought it wasn't bad, it was actually a really good movie, I was impressed. I think the reason why I disliked the first National Treasure was due to the fact that it was too deep with history in order for it to be a family film and could be confusing at times. But National Treasure: Book of Secrets explains itself well and has more exciting action sequences and just a great story.Ben Gates is back, this time his life isn't looking so good, his girlfriend, Abigal, threw him out, his friend, Riley isn't the best seller on his new book, then his great great grandfather is accused of helping John Wilkes Booth kill President Lincoln. But Ben is determined to clear the family name, but Mitch Wilkinson wants his family name to remain sacred and plans to drag Ben's family down and claim all the fortune for himself.National Treasure: Book of Secrets is an exciting adventure film, one of the better I've seen in a while. Nicolas Cage is my only little complaint, now I love this actor, he was great throughout the film, but when he had his little "joke" putting his arm into the rock where everyone thinks it's a trap and he kids them with it, for some reason this guy cannot do comedy. I know that's a silly complaint, but sometimes he just seems so out of place in a film, especially with his recent movies. But National Treasure: Book of Secrets otherwise is a decent family film that is enjoyable and exciting, I'd recommend it if you're looking for a fun film.7/10
While at another Blockbuster store that was about to close down, I picked up a few movies, one of them being Buried. I remember seeing the trailer and thought it looked interesting but was curious what the movie was like. Ryan Reynolds is one of those hit or miss actors, you still love the guy, but he's not the greatest actors and hasn't been given that one break that could title him in the good acting category. I watched the film last night and I have to say this is a film that has stuck in my head for the day. Very rarely do we have a film that takes chances like this film did where it truly captures the claustrophobia and really does not let go on the tension. Ryan is the only actor we see in the flesh and he carries the film very well in this heart breaking and terrifying story.Paul Conroy, a US truck driver in Iraq, awakens buried alive in a wooden coffin, with only a Zippo and a cell phone. Although he initially has no idea how he got there, he soon starts to piece together what has happened to him. He remembers that he and several other trucks were ambushed by terrorists, who killed the other truck drivers. After finding the cellphone. Paul is able to contact the FBI, but they cut off before he can explain the situation. Conroy's kidnapper phones him and demands a ransom of $5 million to release him alive, which is later lowered to $1 million. Conroy eventually gets into contact with the State Department, who pass him onto a hostage rescue group led by Dan Brenner. It's just a matter of time before Paul can keep it together enough for Dan to save him, but the real question is: is Paul worth the risk? You'll have to see to find out.As we are trapped with Paul through the story, you can't help but feel for him. You put yourself in that situation and can't imagine the pain and horror of what he is going through. I think everyone has had a nightmare of being buried alive, you have two choices: die of suffocation or starvationeither way it's slow and you have to wait to die. So naturally you're connecting with Paul, but then it's when you get to know his situation that you really start to feel for him. He's just a normal guy who is trying to make money for his family and was in the wrong place at the wrong time. You also know how the American government works when it comes to terrorist negotiations, it's not pleasant to think about.The funny thing about this film is that I was telling my boyfriend that it had a Hitchcock feel to it and what do you know? Rodrigo Cortés was inspired by Rope, a fantastic film by Hitchcock, to make this film. I think he captured just about everything perfectly about a man who's been buried alive and doing everything in his limited power to survive. The lighting, the acting and the claustrophobic atmosphere just really gets to you and is very well done. Ryan did a good job in keeping us with him during his struggle to live and through the whole story he keeps you going making you wonder if he'll make it out OK or not. Buried is a heart breaking and terrifying story that you would never want to find yourself trapped in.8/10
After seeing Saw III in the theater last year, I was interested on how they would continue the story since the end of the third Saw, they killed the jigsaw killer. So I saw it last night with my friend and afterwards I felt like this was just an average thriller with the ultimate gore. Now, don't get me wrong, I love a good gory film, but it seems lately like that's all that Saw now has to offer. Just a good gross out gag, so it's just getting old. While the story worked pretty well, there were still some things that were a bit confusing to me. Some of the film either moved too fast or moved too slow. For the most part I think I got most of the film, just the story could have been edited better I think. But I believe that if you are a fan of the Saw films, you will not be disappointed with this story.Now that John is dead, the detectives are trying to figure out how the jigsaw murders are still happening. Officer Rigg in particular is still looking for his fellow policeman, Eddie. His obsession with saving him gets him into more trouble than it's worth when he is picked to save Eddie's life who is hanging over a block of ice with a chain around his neck. Rigg has 90 minutes to find them and save them. We also take a deeper look into the world of John, the jigsaw killer, we find out why he became the jigsaw killer and who he was before he became so and who he's recruited to carry on his work.Saw IV will not disappoint you on the gore or scary moments, story wise, I think they over all carried it pretty well. I think the way the film was made though makes it a little much for your head to handle. Either that or I think that these films just need a slight break; I was telling my friend how funny it will be when our future kids will say to us "I'm going to see Saw 28 with my friends", and feeling so old just because we've already been through now four of them. Anyways, for the Saw fans, it's a film worth watching, but if you're just looking for a movie to watch, I don't know if you'll get into it.6/10
Honestly, I can't help but notice all the people who once again are rating this movie without seeing it and just because they suspect the movie is going to be bad, they rate it anyways as a one. Well, I'm going to once again give you an honest review, I saw this movie last Saturday and honestly enjoyed it. I know I'm going to receive a lot of bashing, but I always look at movies as what they are supposed to be, this was meant to be a children's movie, it's meant for fun. Remember how we all had those cheesy animal movies when we were kids as well? Well Beverly Hills Chihuahua is no different, it's just updated with today's world. I thought it was a good idea, we see all these rich people now-a-days with the way they just lavish their dogs with jewels that cost more than people's houses, it takes a little joke at it. The story is recycled, but it's still a lot fun to watch and has some really fun scenes.Chloe is a Beverly Hills Chihuahua who is just so pampered, with clothes, jewelery, and a life style anyone would die to have. Her owner, Vivian, has to go away on a business trip and leaves her party girl niece, Rachel, to watch Chloe. When they go to Mexico, Chloe is kidnapped and put into a dog fight... she is then saved by another dog, Delgado, who is going to help her get back to Beverly Hills. But when the man who runs the dog fights finds out that Chloe is worth something, he sends his Doberman dog, Diablo, after her. Rachel, the land scaper, Sam, and his dog, Pepi who is also in love with Chloe, are on the hunt to find her and get her home safe and sound.Beverly Hills Chihuahua is a fun movie if you give it a decent chance, I thought it was a nice chance from the constant CGI we always have with these animal stories. I was also impressed that the talking didn't look so fake with the dogs. I tell you though I'm convinced that the dog that played Delgado is the same dog from I Am Legend, that dog just deserves an Oscar, lol, come on, you gotta agree. Well, Beverly Hills Chihuahua is a great family film, as for seeing it on your own or with a friend, I would say that it's worth the rental more so. It's a silly movie I admit, but I had a fun time watching it and I wish IMDb users would give this movie the fair chance it deserves.6/10
Now, I don't know why, but I was sooooo curious on what a travesty of film making this movie supposedly is, just if it really was THAT bad. Date Movie is possibly the worst movie that was ever made, so I was expecting a stupid movie, now it is, BUT, I have to admit that I laughed more than I did in Date Movie, but that's not much considering that Date Movie did not get one laugh from me. Epic Movie got like 4 laughs, while they were incredibly stupid and predictable jokes, I admit there were a couple parts I couldn't help but laugh too, like the Click parody and the Jack "Swallows" character. There were so many mistakes in this film, I think some were done intentionally though and people were kinda going crazy on them.Four orphans go to a chocolate factory where they discover a closet, where the inside leads to the world of Gnarnia. But it's being ruled by, well, a white B-word, the land needs saving. The four orphans discover not only that they are related, but that they are destined to take over the land and save the goat like people, with some other parody characters.Epic Movie is annoying, stupid, and immature, but I think people did jump a little too fast to just give it the most nasty review possible. I mean, come on, I think there are WORSE films, we know it. This is a movie you might just wanna open your mind too and see where it goes, like I said, it's a stupid movie that I would not be surprised if it got a couple razzie awards, but I think you might get a couple of silly laughs.2/10
Ever since I saw the trailer for The House Bunny back in May, I was looking forward to seeing it, this looked like a fun comedy and we all love Anna Faris, this girl is just adorable, and she makes comedies a lot of fun. So I saw The House Bunny yesterday and I did enjoy myself, but we've done this before, the dumb blonde story, not that we can't do it again, I'm just looking for something a little fresh. But Anna Faris holds herself so well with comedies, The House Bunny, she doesn't seem to enjoy herself as much in this role. A lot of the moments where she acts stupid, she looks a little uncomfortable at times, I think that's why this movie didn't stand out as well as other dumb blonde comedies. But it's mindless entertainment, the message, it worries me a little, I'll explain why in a little bit, but I'd say if you're a grown up and you know better, than this is a fun little movie.Shelley is a hot playboy bunny whose life is just grand, she's a sweetheart, a little on the slow side, but always has good intentions, and when it appears that Hugh Hefner wants her out of the house due to her age of 27, she must pack up her things and take off. She's homeless, but finds a local sorority that needs a house mother and a clue into a social life. She becomes their house mother and teaches them how to attract people, but she learns a little something too when she meets a sweet, smart, and sensitive guy, Oliver. Now things become a success with the sorority, but they become a little too shallow and Oliver wants more than a playboy bunny, he wants a girl to talk too, and to top that off the other sororities are upset to learn that the former losers are now hotties that everyone loves.My one problem with this movie, even though it is enjoyable, the message isn't appropriate for young girls. I know it's just a movie, I don't want to nit pick, believe me, I know when a movie is harmless, but it's teaching young girls that you have to play yourself down to get a guy and that looks will get you everywhere at any time, also we are rooting for a person who just always has good intentions, why? That's all Shelley is, just a nice person, but she doesn't have many likable qualities. I liked the movie over all, I just think the script needed more work, nothing about this movie stood out, it's a disappointment to me. I would recommend it for silly fun, but otherwise, just wait for the rental.6/10
Now I want to get one thing straight, I really wanted to love this movie, Sacha Baron Cohen is a consistently funny and shocking comedian that takes the most absurd characters putting them into situations that not only make people uncomfortable but react in a way that makes you laugh so hard that it makes your stomach hurt. After seeing the trailer for Brüno, I don't think I even need to say this, everyone wanted to see where Sacha would go after Borat and Brüno looked like an incredibly funny movie. I consider myself a liberal person, I don't mind the "shock" humor of today, but my problem with this movie is that it's hurting more than harmless humor. I have a few homosexual friends who are struggling to be taken seriously in life and this movie is honestly setting them back. My thing is that if Sacha had a message in the film vs. just mocking not just a country but other people, the film would have worked a lot better.Gay Austrian fashion reporter Brüno is fired from his show after disrupting a catwalk show during Fashion week. Accompanied by his assistant's assistant Lutz, he travels to the United States to become a superstar. After a pilot of a celebrity interview show bombs with a test audience, he attempts to become famous via various other methods. In an attempt to create a sex tape, he arranges an interview with Ron Paul, and while the two wait for a staged technical problem to be fixed, Brüno starts hitting on Paul. He consults PR consultants to select a world problem he can tackle to maximize his fame with a minimum of effort. He flies to Jerusalem where he interviews former Mossad agent Yossi Alpher and Palestinian politician Ghassan Khatib in which Brüno asks silly questions and gets kicked out of the country. On a TV talk show hosted by Richard Bey, he shows the African American audience a Black baby named O.J., whom he acquired in Africa by swapping him for an iPod. The audience is appalled. Social Services take the boy away from Brüno, driving him into severe depression. After realizing that the biggest names in Hollywood are straight, Brüno consults two Christian gay converters to become heterosexual.Brüno is Borat with a different character, it seems like Sacha is just relying on shock over actual humor now. Although I'm actually curious what the unrated DVD is going to look like because this might as well have been a porno. For God's sake they have a scene that Brüno goes to a swinger's party and there is just full frontal, back, side, everything you can imagine in a porno is in this scene. Not to mention there's a sex scene in the beginning with Brüno and his boyfriend that is just plain disturbing that involves a bike connected to a dildo that pleasures Brüno while his boyfriend exercises and it's a bit much for most to handle. Then Brüno speaks to a "gay converter" to become straight that was just over the top offensive not just from Brüno's lines but also the leader of this group who clearly is hiding behind God's skirt. Now if this is your kind of humor, honestly, I'm not sure if I'd want to know you because this is the humor that is more stupid and hurts people vs. just having fun. I wouldn't really recommend for people to run out and watch this trash, I hate to say it, Brüno was too offensive and that's saying a lot from me considering that I thought Borat was hilarious.2/10
I love dark comedies, it seems like sometimes to be an audience pleaser we are given more light hearted comedies that never push the edge. Bad Teacher looked like it was going to give that proper push that you could just let go for an hour and a half and have a good time. We had a movie a few years ago called Bad Santa, that had virtually the same premise where Santa is supposed to be good and jolly but instead we have a slob scum bag who later realizes there is more to being a good guy. The comedy worked very well and had actors who fit the roles perfectly. Bad Teacher is about a woman who is a gold digger and is embezzling money from her school charities to enhance her breast size to get a wealthy teacher, great idea, bad actors. Something about this film just didn't work and it's between the cop out with the story or the actors, tough call.Elizabeth is a gold digging school teacher who curses at her students, drinks heavily, smokes marijuana, and only shows movies while she sleeps through class. She plans to quit teaching and marry her wealthy fiancé, but when he dumps her, she must resume her job as a teacher. She tries to win over substitute teacher Scott, who is also wealthy. Elizabeth plans to get surgery to get breast implants, believing that she needs them since Scott's ex girlfriends have larger breasts. However, she cannot afford the $10,000 procedure. Amy, her teaching nemeses sees all that Elizabeth is doing and plans to catch her to expose her to the principal and get her fired.Cameron Diaz, I'm still confused on why she is such a hot commodity in Hollywood. Don't get me wrong, I do like the girl, but not enough to see her carry a film. Her comedy seems a little forced at times with the lead character, you can always tell that she's acting. I don't think the role fit her too well. Justin Timberlake, when will the boy release another album? Probably when he stops choosing crap roles. I actually do like him as an actor, he's one of the rare artists who can pull off both talents. But this was the one time where he was pretty much a fail because his character is so bland. Jason Segal, again a likable actor who has great comedic timing, but for some reason to me he seemed disinterested in the movie and I think it's because he knew it was a silly script. There's a scene where he's arguing with a student over Michael Jordon still being the best basketball player and the kid questions his response and he screams "That's the only argument I need Shawn!", so shouting this at a 12 year old is funny? I found it more pathetic.I'm not trying to sound like a whiner with this movie, because there are a few chuckles here and there. I thought the idea for the story is actually hilarious and should be given another chance. I think they just tried to make this too audience friendly because having the main character as the ultimate jerk through the whole movie and then to have her randomly pull the lamest sympathy vote at the end not even explaining why she is the way she is not clever and was a cop out in my opinion. Most of the laughs are cheap and I didn't like the ending. It's a lousy movie that had so much more potential. I watched this with my boyfriend on pay per view, he had to leave the last few minutes of the film, when he came back I told him we had it all day if he wanted to finish and he said that he wasn't getting into it and THAT'S THE ONLY ARGUMENT I NEED TO SAY THIS IS AN AWFUL MOVIE.3/10
Thanks to Charlie Bartlett's limited release, I had to wait until the DVD release, I was finally able to see it this past week and I absolutely enjoyed this movie. It was a pleasure to watch and was so funny, the story was something fun and clever, not since Ferris Bueller's Day Off or Clueless have we had a great high school classic that will be remembered for a while. I know that some people are not as into this movie as I am, but I felt like this was an intelligent script with an exceptional cast that made the story come to life. It really brought me back into my high school days, how many scary things go on in our lives during the hard times of being a teenager. All the insecurities, anger, isolation, rejection, Charlie Bartlett revisits those issues to those who have grown up and made it relate to today's teenage generation.Charlie Bartlett is a boy who just wants to be accepted by others, he gets kicked out of his private rich school and is forced to go to public school. There he is automatically picked on for looking higher class than everyone, but when he gets the school bully to finally give him a chance, they decide to sell prescription drugs to students, not only that, but Charlie counsels the students in the boy's bathroom. While the principal, Nathan Gardner, doesn't know what to do or handle his daughter who is also Charlie's new girlfriend. Nathan is loosing control of his school and trying to figure out how to handle Charlie.I really did enjoy Charlie Bartlett, I felt that it combined the drama and comedy very well together, once again, like Ferris Bueller, it's not too realistic, but it makes you believe that it could happen. Charlie is so charismatic that it makes you like his flawed character, that his life is also misunderstood by others and you can relate to him on some level. Robert Downy, Jr. delivers a great performance as Nathan Gardner, his ending scene with Charlie was done perfectly, although I do wish it ended differently, but I felt like the movie was well put together and I would recommend it for a good comedy to watch.8/10
After seeing the trailer for Couples Retreat, I wanted to see this movie, I had to see this movie, I also promised Vince Vaughn I would, lol. I met him at a Blackhawk's game a couple weeks prior to seeing this movie and I told him I was excited to see it and he said "you promise to see it?", gotta give the man credit for plugging in the movie into our conversation, lol. But even with that, I still wanted to see this movie, it did look honestly funny, but I didn't get to see it until the Monday after it opened originally. I was hearing some bad or okay reviews which disappointed me. But in my opinion, it doesn't matter, it's what you think of the movie, so I still saw it. While the movie wasn't bad, it definitely is something that is forgettable. It just became a typical romantic comedy at the end that really disappointed me. I'll explain why it's a disappointment in a moment.After several failed attempts to conceive, Jason and Cynthia are close to getting a divorce. In an effort to save their marriage they book a vacation to a couples therapy retreat, called Eden. To save money they encourage their friends to join them, and claim that their friends can enjoy the party activities and not take part in the therapy. Their friends, Dave and Ronnie, Joey and Lucy, and recently divorced Shane and his girlfriend Trudy agree. Upon their arrival at Eden, they are sent to the couples resort on the west side of the island, and forbidden from traveling to East Eden, which hosts a singles resort. During their first night, resort host Sctanley informs all four couples that they must all engage in the couples therapy or leave the resort. At their first therapy session, all four couples learn they have problems with their relationships. They endure the resort owner Marcel's unusual methods, including swimming with sharks, naked bonding time, and yoga sessions with amorous instructor.Couples Retreat is worth the watch for a rental when you're looking for a movie night. Because there are a few good laughs herd an there. I was just bummed on how they handled the jokes. Like the shark bite joke, the couples go scuba diving and happened to get a company of sharks, one MAY of took a baby bite out of Vince Vaughn. Now it's funny how he reacts to it, just making it seem like he just got attacked by Jaws. But they carry on the joke for 10 minutes and makes the scene very uncomfortable and instead you just feel like one of the characters who are ready to scream at him "ok, get over it!". Also the ending was so predictable and a little too coincidental. One of the guy's ex's just happens to be there because she heard he was going there and wanted to get back together. Of course magically all the couples rekindle their old flames for each other and are happy. Like I said, it's worth the rental, but as for a movie theater experience, you can wait. Sorry Vince, guess I'll have to wait until the next film to see if you still got that comedic gold.5/10
Alien is one of the classic horror sci-fi films of all time. Giving so many different themes and conversations to talk about: betrayal, isolation, darkness and claustrophobia. The film was so popular that it spawned 3 sequels and a whole truck load of spoofs and tributes. But the question on everyone's mind is: Where did the alien come from? Also if the alien is like us since in the last sequel we find out that Riley's DNA is mixed with the alien's. So director Ridley Scott comes back to answer those questions with Prometheus, a prequel that was supposed to answer these questions. With some excellent visual effects and a great story, this is bring sci-fi back to a whole new level.In 2089, archaeologist couple Elizabeth Shaw and Charlie Holloway discover a star map among several unconnected ancient cultures. They interpret this as an invitation from humanity's forerunners, the "Engineers". Peter Weyland, the elderly CEO of Weyland Corporation, funds the creation of the scientific vessel Prometheus to follow the map to the distant moon. The ship's crew travels while the android David monitors their voyage. Arriving in 2093, they are informed of their mission to find the Engineers. The Prometheus lands near a large artificial structure, which a team explores. Inside they find numerous stone cylinders, a monolithic statue of a humanoid head, and the corpse of a large alien, thought to be an Engineer. But what they find later on may lead to more questions that they may not want the answers too. After all, curiosity did kill the cat.Over all, I think that Prometheus was a great film with very promising story lines. But I was disappointed that in some way were are left with more questions than answers. I wasn't so sure about the main character, Shaw(I'm assuming you've seen the movie since I do warn about spoilers in the beginning of my comment), they say that she can't get pregnant. She has sex with her boyfriend the night before, they go to the sight where these alien creatures attack them and she's pregnant. They say however that she's 3 months along and my curiosity is that since her boyfriend was infected, was it the boyfriend who impregnated her or was the attack? Feel free to send me a message if you have a better answer, please. Also I do wish some of the characters had better development like Charlize Theron's Meredith Vickers and the two men who are first attacked were just like bait to get the movie going and it was somewhat insulting as this is a more intelligent thriller.However what stands out in this film other than the effects was Michael Fassbender as David, the android. He does a phenomenal job as the android who is not only just there to do his job, but almost curious upon why the humans act a certain way. Why are humans so curious? It's a good look on society where some answers are just not good enough. Shaw finds the oldest drawings known to man, but wants to know more. She finds a ship where we may have found the answer to how we were created. But who created our creator? It keeps going deeper and deeper and ends up really destroying the mission. Our curiosity as humans is what can really kill us. Prometheus has it's flaws, but without a doubt is one of the best movies of the year. I'm curious to see if they will continue the story as we are left with some questions still on where these aliens came from and how they survived and would breed. But I highly recommend the movie for sure and it's good to see Scott back with creating a great picture.8/10
Recently I saw the theatrical trailer for Resident Evil: Extinction and it occurred to me, I have never seen the first two Resident Evil films, and I always wanted to see them. So I rented the first two Resident Evil films and watched them last night. I had a lot of fun watching Resident Evil, it was very high action and kept my heart racing on what would happen next. This is a great movie based on a video game, this is the kind of movie that we need if we are talking about basing it on a video game. I haven't seen a good one since Mortal Kombat. The action and effects were so awesome not to mention that there are some very awesome scares in here. Very cool make up for the zombies; and the story was excellent.A virus breaks out in a lab called the Hive where everyone is held in captivity and dies. All of a sudden we see a woman passed out in a shower, she has no idea who she is, she meets two other men who have no idea who they are, but they are taken by soldiers who take them underground to the Hive. There the three learn that they are fighters for this out break and that also they might be part of what happened. The main thing is that they control the Hive, but that gets more difficult when the virus has turned the people it killed into the living dead, zombies. The woman, Alice, turns into the leader and must find out why this happened and also how they can get out alive without contaminating the world.Resident Evil was an awesome movie to watch and I would highly recommend this movie for anyone who loves action movies. If you loved Mortal Kombat I'm sure you'll love Resident Evil. There are so many great scenes, but my favorite was when Alice saw the evil dogs and they chased her throughout the lab, it was really scary but so awesome to watch. Well, you'll just have to see what I mean. Milla Jovovich was just a perfect choice for Alice, she is such a cool character and now I'm really looking forward to seeing Extinction.7/10
I heard a little bit of The Quiet Man, mostly from my film books, how it was one of the greatest movies of all time. Now this sounds crazy, after all the movies I have seen, I never thought of it, but I never saw a movie with John Wayne. One of the most famous icons of our time, how could I not know at least one of his films? Now despite the fact that it may not be a "John Wayne" film, no western action, Irish in fact, but I didn't mind. While I would agree that this movie is a classic in itself, I didn't really get into it. It was pretty clichéd, but I think this was the film that made clichés before there was any type of movie cliché, so that's not my complaint. The story just really didn't get to me like I thought it would.Sean moves to his home land of Ireland from America, he has a life he would like to settle down too. His eyes are captured by a young but fiesty Mary Kate who becomes betrothed to him, but her brother Will won't have of it since he has a bad feeling of Sean's past and presence. Mary Kate grows to love Sean, but loves her brother and wants his blessing with their marriage, but Will is definitely going to give them a hard time before he does that.It has action and romance, not to mention a great and strong cast that worked very well together. I would recommend this film for any classic film lovers, it's one to check out. It just didn't keep my interest, but I would never deny in a million years that it was a good movie. John Wayne is a terrific actor and really kept the film going with Maureen, they had good chemistry, loved how they had their first kissing scene with the dramatic wind, always a crowd pleaser.7/10
The things we do for friends, it was girl's night and for some reason my girlfriends just love chick flicks. I hate them, very rarely do we have a rom com that works. Killers was one of those movies that I really did try to give a fair chance, but let's face it, with this cast could have I expected more? Ashton Kutcher and Katherine Heigl, these two have zero chemistry and the jokes are so forced that they don't even seem like they are enjoying making this film. We fall into the typical clichés and beyond predictable moments and the characters are just horrible. You wanna hear something that I'm sure is just hilarious to you, the girl's mother is a very sick alcoholic who has a drink in every scene, so funny, right? The characters pretty much take murder very lightly and accept the fact that most of America is trying to kill them. The twist is lame and the story is stupid. No wonder this movie was not screened by critics, because they knew that this film was bad and did not put any effort into making it, so why should we care as an audience? Anyone who thinks this film was awesome or funny, I feel just bad for them.After a break-up with a spontaneous boyfriend, an overly cautious Jennifer travels to France with her parent. While going into an elevator to go to her hotel room, she meets Spencer, he asks her to dinner and she accepts. After a night of drinking, Jen reveals that she's not the spontaneous person she's been pretending to be and in return Spencer bluntly tells her that he's an assassin, albeit unhappy about being one. Unfortunately she's already passed out and hasn't heard. In spite of this, Spencer decides that Jen's the woman he's been looking for and decides to marry her. Three years later, they are settled into their new normal life. Spencer gets a postcard from his old boss and the ultimatum to take another assignment. Stopping home to change, Spencer walks into a surprise party for him. A little while later, Jen finds Spencer being tossed around their house by Spencer's friend and co-worker. While interrogating the attacker, he reveals that there is a $20 million bounty on Spencer's head. So Jen and Spencer are now on a run for their lives as they figure out who is trying to kill them.You can figure this story out so easily if you have seen the trailer. I just cannot believe films like this get made, I know that it's usually just for a quick buck but goes to show how much the director cares about yours' spending on whatever way you saw this movie. This is one of the laziest films I have ever seen and was just horrible, at least one of my girlfriends admitted that this was a stupid film and it was a waste of time. The only laugh we got out of this was just making fun of it. Seriously, Ashton and Katherine go on a date for the first time where she pretends to be a robot for a second, crawls under the table and he stalked her to the beach, how in the heck did these two pass in the real world? Probably on looks only, good looking people does not equal sanity. This is a stupid movie and shows how unoriginal Hollywood is, I can make a romantic comedy easily at this point and make a cool 20 million dollars, thank you America! See, we can get very easily out of this economic crisis.1/10
After seeing the trailer to Pulse, I had no interest in seeing this movie, it looked like your typical non scary Asian rip off of a film. But my friend just so desperately wanted to see it, so we rented it and watched it last night, while I wouldn't say that this was a great film, it was good, just an average horror film that had good potential, it just needed work. Some things were left unexplained and the ending just well... ended. But the film in the first hour was pretty good, I think they just didn't think it through, you know? Not to mention the acting got pretty crappy towards the ending.Mattie is worried about her ex boyfriend, Josh, since he left a weird message on her answering machine, so she decides to check on him herself at his apartment. There is a scary looking cat in the closet, the place is a mess, and Josh looks like he's not having a nice day, he hangs himself while she's there. All of a sudden there is a "suicide" epidemic we find out later is being caused by the ghosts who are spreading through technology.It actually sounds silly, but it worked for a little while, the makers of this film just got a little cocky or something. It's better than most of the Asian horror film remakes I've seen, but that's still not saying too much. But I always tell my mom to give a movie a shot, because you never know, you might like this film, I don't think it deserves a 4.0 rating, believe me when I say, that I've seen worse.5/10
I was just channel surfing and saw that The Messengers was playing, I was in the mood for a good scary movie and I remembered the trailers for it, it looked creepy. The one thing about this movie for sure that kept my attention, almost every single 5 minutes, when there is supposed to be a scare, there's a loud noise to make the scene scarier. My main problem with this whole loud noise tactic to scare people, we've been reduced to using it a million times for a ghost story, it tries too hard, it's a major disappointment that the director can't come up with anything else. Not to mention this turns into a typical mystery thriller ghost story, why not just have a plain scary movie? This does have some creeps and had such good potential for a real horror movie, but instead it just flopped and the story was bad.Jess and her family have moved from big city Chicago to little country town where her father decides to become a farmer and they've moved into a creepy old house where the crows just can't seem to leave them alone. Seems bad enough, right? Oh, no, we have a random stranger come over that the family just trusts off the bat, the troublesome Jess is recovering her trust with her parents once again, and their little child is seeing ghosts. Well, what is going to happen now? I guess you'll just have to find out for yourself, but I warn you that if big loud noises scare you, steer clear.This movie not only has the lamest way of scaring people, but it also has the most cliché's I've seen in a while. Like the creepy guy who the family just so easily trusts, in fact they trust him so much that without barely knowing him, they leave him with their kids, how smart is that? This movie just frustrates me because it's one of those movies that shows what is wrong with today's horror movies. I feel bad just ripping this movie apart, there are some jumps here and there but that's only because of the constant loud noises. This wasn't a good movie to watch, it wasted my time, I wouldn't really recommend it.2/10
I don't know if it's just me, but it seems like 2010 was the year for villains. Ever since Disney released it's classic film The Incredibles, I think people took more of an interest in the villains, what makes them tick and what their true motives are. So Dreamworks saw this idea and really took advantage. They released Despicable Me which was a huge hit and not even a couple of months later we had Megamind. It seemed like the love child of The Incredibles and Despicable Me, but I went shopping a few weeks ago and found Megamind very cheap, so I figured that I would give it a buy and see if it was worth it. I watched it this morning and even though it's not a very strong animated film, I would say that it was worth the buy. I guess it's just a great year for villains, because we're not seeing them as total baddies who just want to destroy everything and everyone, but maybe they have a soft side too and wanted to be good but their looks were a little too intimidating and their powers were just a little too over the top.Megamind is a super-intelligent alien and self-proclaimed villain of the fictional Metro City. Megamind has constantly battled and lost to his nemesis Metro Man since they both arrived on Earth as infants. On the day that Metro City dedicates a museum to Megamind and his sidekick Minion kidnap reporter Roxanne and lure Metro Man into a copper-lined room. To everyone's surprise, Metro Man is unable to escape and appears to be killed when Megamind's death ray strikes him. Megamind revels in his victory against Metro Man, but shortly after becomes depressed, his villainy having no meaning without anyone to stop him. Megamind is inspired to create a superhero by injecting a worthy target with a serum fashioned from Metro Man's DNA, granting them Metro Man's super-abilities. As Megamind is selecting his target, Roxanne sneaks into Megamind's lair; in the resulting chaos, Megamind accidentally fires the serum into Hal, Roxanne's cameraman who wasn't the brightest choice in the world. Now Megamind finds out that he may have a different destiny then just being the bad guy.When I saw the movie Despicable Me, I have to admit that I was disappointed, even though it's a good movie, I was expecting a great one. I think since my expectations were lower with Megamind, it met up with what I was expecting to see and I think I had a little bit of a better time. Dreamworks is more aimed for an adult audience vs. the kids, not only can you tell with the jokes, but with the music. The animation is pretty great, but you can tell it was very much made for this silly 3D fad we got going on. Again, I still miss our good old hand drawn animation, I think the CGI animation is just a cop out, but I suppose I should get used to it since this 3D thing is not going away for a while.The actors seemed to have a good time with the movie as well and really got into their characters and their voices didn't seem out of place. Another thing that I enjoyed about this film is that it brought out the inner dork in me with wondering what the Shredder from TMNT was like before he wanted to defeat the turtles or if the Joker and Batman originally played in the sandbox together when they were kids and Joker was just jealous of Bruce Wayne and all his wealth. I guess I need a life with that comment. But to end the comment, I would say that Megamind is very much worth the watch, especially if you loved Despicable Me. Villains are finally getting their due, the new millennium makes the heros out and the super villains in.7/10
It's so funny because I know the exact plot of The Crying game, not just from I love the 90's, other viewers, or as this was named the number one most shocking movie of all time in Entertainment Weekly, I was thinking when I rented this movie how I wouldn't be shocked due to the fact that I knew what was going to happen, do you know what happened during the "love" scene? I actually gasped and laughed! Poor Stephen Rea, this movie was so great in the fact of how an Irishman's world could be totally turned over when the greatest circumstances come along.James has kidnapped along with his gang, a soldier, Jody. He and Jody become friends somewhat before tragically Jody is killed, but Jody asked him if he could see his true love, Dil, to let her know that she was the last thing he thought of. James meets Dil and falls in love with her to find out an interesting little "Thing" about her, she doesn't know yet that he knew her Jody and it could literally destroy each other once they find out each other's secrets.The Crying Game still to this day is one of the most shocking movies of all time and not to mention, just over all, a great film. The acting and story were just incredible and so unique. I really enjoyed The Crying Game, I think honestly anyone else can too, don't judge too harshly, look at the true art of the film and the story, it really is incredible. I miss the real shock movies, the one's that for some reason still contain the same emotions decades later, you know?9/10
Two big stars today: Jason Bateman and Ryan Reynolds, putting them together in a film would be natural for a box office success, even a good movie as they are both decent actors. Even an overused plot of "let's exchange bodies and find out what your life is like", been done to death but why not try it with something that has been discussed a million times where why single people want to be married and why married people want to be single again. Now it's not like we haven't all asked this question, I mean it's the most simple answer: Why when we were children did we want to be an adult? Because it's something we think looks great and when it happens you get the good and you get the bad and you sometimes realize maybe the bad outweighs the good and want the good back. So onto the film; I did want to see The Change Up, it seemed like it would try to be a good comedy, boy did it wanna prove me wrong on so many levels.Growing up together, Mitch and Dave are best friends from childhood, as the years have passed, they have slowly drifted apart. Dave is an overworked lawyer, husband and father of three children and Mitch is a single, semi employed man-child who has never met a made a true commitment. To Mitch, Dave has it all: his beautiful wife Jamie, three children who adore him and a high-paying job at a prestigious law firm. To Dave, living Mitch's stress-free life without obligation or consequence would be a dream come true. Following a drunken night out together, Mitch and Dave's worlds are turned upside down when they wake up in each other's bodies and proceed to freak out. Despite the freedom from their normal routines and habits, the guys soon discover that each other's lives are nowhere near as rosy as they once seemed.I love comedies, it's not like I don't have a sense of humor and there were certain parts that made me chuckle. Jason Bateman encouraging his daughter to beat up a school bully and applauding it when she did it on stage during one of her ballet recitals was good. To me, it's just a movie so I can get over the fact that it's the wrong message. However, less than 30 minutes into the film after they exchange lives, there's a soft core porno where they're talking about sticking thumbs into things and it's just way too much and extremely uncomfortable where just uptight Jason Bateman being in a soft core is funny enough why take it to an awkward level? Then I've never ever seen Leslie Mann naked, never thought she was the actress who would do that, oh boy does she do that for a while in the film. Which again, I don't mind nudity, but with her nudity was it necessary? Speaking of unnecessary nudity, what the heck was with the pregnant lady? It seemed like Mitch had some sort of mental issues vs. just not being able to grow up.Why were these two still best friends? I understand growing up, I had great friends when I was a kid, but we went into separate groups, got into different things, that was it and we moved on not talking since we were kids. I have friends now from childhood, but we have things in common still. I also understand that it's hard to break off a friendship, but these two just didn't belong together. They were both uncomfortable with each other and the chemistry was completely off to make it believable where you could see that there was a reason for them still keeping in touch with each other. This movie is just crude and wrong on so many levels that it's not enjoyable, it's more uncomfortable most of the time. I give the movie some credit that it was trying to be funny, it was just given to the wrong people who obviously live Mitch's life more than Dave's. They try to throw in ethics and morals and then the "appreciate what you have" message down your throat with a loving family sit-com moment that's just pathetic when this movie has a baby pooping in Jason Bateman's mouth which I'm sure since it's the in the beginning is a metaphor for what the audience is in for when they sit down to this sick movie.2/10
When I first saw the trailer for P.S. I Love You, I was so thrown off and knew that I did not want to see this movie, it looked so typical and like it was an over blown chick flick. But I heard some great things about the film and decided to just wait for the rental, I got it on Tuesday and watched it today, I have to say that I am so glad I gave this movie a chance, it was such a pleasure to watch. It had great actors and a very touching story, something that really hasn't been done before. What happens when you have to start your life all over again without the love of your life? How scary is it? I think the reason I love this film is that everyone could relate to it, wither you've been: widowed, divorced, left by a relative or friend, or had a bad break up, this movie expresses all the emotions and hard times that you'll go through, but to remember that it's OK to live again.Holly had a wonderful husband, Gerry, even though they fought quite a bit, he was the one love of her life, and due to a brain tumor, he was taken so quickly from her. At the young age of 30, she has to rediscover what it is to go on without him, but to her surprise, she receives letters from Gerry that he wrote to her before he passed away. Leading her to have the courage and strength to do what she didn't think she could do before, and most of all love and live again.Hilary Swank and Gerald Butler have this dead on chemistry that makes the film work so well. Gerry's letters to Holly were so touching, I usually hate the sappy stuff, but this was just a sweet movie that will touch anyone's heart and also make them laugh at the same time. Kathy Bate's speech at the end with Hilary Swank was so true about how hard it is after being alone and having to learn to live again, it's a strange feeling, it's almost like learning to breathe again. P.S. I Love You is a great movie, I do recommend it, it's just a decent movie that is more than worth your time, it doesn't over kill on anything, just makes you feel good.8/10
My girlfriend and I just saw The Holiday this afternoon on it's opening day and I have to say that honestly, I really did like The Holiday. It was a nice breath of fresh air for an all together feel good movie for the season. I think because in one way or another we can relate to the characters and their love lives, because they each had different situations. Like Cameron couldn't commit, Jude had a hard time opening up to his real life, Kate couldn't get out of love with someone who wasn't treating her right, and Jack was falling in love with the wrong women. This movie was a very special treat for the holidays.Iris and Amanda are two women who have just been horribly bashed around in relationships and need to get away for a while. Iris lives in Surrey, England, and Amanda lives in L.A. in the states, they look each other up on the internet for a house exchange to get away from their problems for a while and agree to do the arrangement. When both ladies arrive, they are excited and anxious about their new lifestyles and countries, they also both meet each other's brothers and while Grahm, Iris's brother, and Amanda hit it off immediately, it takes Jack's character and Iris a while to realize that it's time to move on from their unhealthy relationships, of course, it's difficult since they live on separate sides of the world from each other.The Holiday may be a bit hokey and cheesy to watch, but for a girl's afternoon, I think this was a great film that was honest and anyone could use for those broken hearts. I would highly recommend The Holiday, it did actually have good acting, a wonderful story, and lovable characters that weren't too over bearing or annoying. Please, don't listen to the critics on this one, it was a very touching and lovely story and I hope it is an honest success at the box office this weekend.9/10
That was my interpretation of this weekend that I had to endure working at my movie theater, all these little hormone crazed brace wearing under developed young girls who I think would've just about died with the anticipation of seeing Twilight, I'm not kidding, I personally witnessed a twelve year old say that she wanted to have Robert Pattinson's baby. OK, so how I saw the movie, my sister, ironically my older sister has been just raving about the Twilight series with her friends and told me that I have to read these books, after weeks of bugging me with it, I finally broke down and read them. Actually it's kind of a fun series, it reminded me of the same love that I had for the TV series Buffy the vampire Slayer when I was a young teen. But of course she has to take me to the midnight premiere with 100,000 crazed fans who were knocking each other down and crawling all over each other just to see a movie.Bella Swan has always been a little bit different, never caring about fitting in with the trendy girls at her Phoenix high school. When her mother remarries and sends Bella to live with her father in the rainy little town of Forks, Washington, she doesn't expect much of anything to change. Then she meets the mysterious and beautiful Edward Cullen. Intelligent and witty, he sees straight into her soul. Soon, Bella and Edward are swept up in a passionate and decidedly unorthodox romance. Edward can run faster than a mountain lion, he can stop a moving car with his bare hands - and he hasn't aged since 1918. Like all vampires, he's immortal. But he doesn't have fangs, and he doesn't drink human blood.So, my opinion about Twilight the movie... honestly, it's average, it's my junior high romance with a vampire. I hate, beyond hate to say this, I'm a hypocrite for saying this, but because I read the book before I saw the movie, I had this completely different interpretation of what the characters look like and how they say certain lines. Twilight the movie made me laugh more than anything simply because of the actors, Robert and Kristen are not bad actors, but the way they talked, I just couldn't take their "love" seriously. Peter Facinelli who played Carlisle Cullen, Edward's father, was exactly how I pictured and pulled in the best performance of the film. Is it worth the watch, absolutely if you're a fan of the books, otherwise, I would say if you just wanna see this movie, I recommend the matinée price because honestly, I think I may have lost my hearing after this weekend of the none stop screams from crazed teens.5/10
Growing up I had the classic VHS Disney Sing-A-Long tapes, I'm sure if you were a child of the 80's or 90's, you saw them too. A couple of the tapes had songs from the feature film Song of the South, these songs were catchy and so charming. I re-watched my tapes recently just to feel some good ol' nostalgia, but came to my surprise that I am a self proclaimed Disney addict, yet I never saw Song of the South. I found out the reason being is due to the fact that this film never had a proper release in the US, VHS copies were hard to get and there is no DVD copy in the US. Supposedly it's due to the supposed "racism", but I was wondering if Tom and Jerry had a warning in the beginning just stating that this was the time and that's the way people spoke, why not do the same with this movie? But anyways, I digress, my boyfriend's uncle who is a bigger Disney addict than I am burned copies from his VHS tape and gave me the DVD and I finally after all these years got to experience the wonderful film that is Song of the South.Seven-year-old Johnny is excited about what he believes to be a vacation at his grandmother's Georgia plantation with his parents, John and Sally. When they arrive at the plantation, he discovers that his parents will be living apart for a while and he is to live in the country with his mother and grandmother while his father returns to Atlanta to continue his controversial editorship in the city's newspaper. Johnny, distraught because his father has never left him or his mother before, leaves that night under cover of darkness and sets off for Atlanta with only a bundle. As Johnny sneaks away from the plantation, he is attracted by the voice of Uncle Remus, telling tales "in his old-timey way" of a character named Br'er Rabbit and his wacky pals.Is the film racist? In my opinion, no. There are some edgy moments here and there, some could argue that the "ideal" relationship between master and slave was a little much which I can understand, but it's a child's film, cut it some slack. The songs are lovely and so is the animation. At the time where films had very good morals for the families, it's a distant memory now where the story lines were innocent and not every family film was silly slap stick with some gross jokes. Uncle Remis is so wonderful and seems like the brightest light in the room, he was so full of life and was lost too soon after this film's release. His stories could easily get anyone hooked into Song of the South. I don't think the film is perfect by any means, the story with the mother could be a little dull at times, it's Uncle Remis who truly steals the show with his animated tales of a crazy rabbit being chased by whacky villains who don't know wither to eat him or knock him on the head. I would recommend this film to anyone, honestly, if it offends you I think you need to remember, this is apart of history and I'm pretty sure meant no harm.9/10
One thing in life that I always enjoyed in my childhood was me and my mom watching the old Hammer Dracula films, they were always a blast to watch how Dracula would get himself back out of the coffin once again for the next sequel. I was able to find a DVD set with 4 Hammer Dracula movies which included one that I hadn't seen: Dracula AD 1972. I didn't even hesitate to buy the DVD and watch Dracula AD 1972 first thing when I got home. I know that these movies are technically bad and very silly, but still I enjoy watching them, Christopher Lee as Dracula in the 70's, you can't go wrong. Although I thought it would have been funnier if he went out into the city to see how people would react to him dressed in that same outfit, just watch the movie Love At First Bite, that's a great example of Dracula existing in a modern world and is absolutely hilarious. I think this movie was mainly made though because of the small success that was Count Yorga, another 1970's vampire movie that is pretty good, they wanted to ride the same roller coaster and see where they could take Dracula next.In1872, Count Dracula and his enemy Lawrence Van Helsing battle on the top of a runaway coach. It crashes and Dracula is impaled by one of the wheels. Van Helsing dies from his wounds. One hundred years later, we are introduced to a group of young hippies that includes Jessica Van Helsing, granddaughter of Van Helsing, a descendant of Dracula's old nemesis and an expert on the occult, and Johnny Alucard, who is a disciple of Dracula. Alucard persuades Jessica and the others to attend a black magic ceremony in the now abandoned, desecrated St Bartolph's, where he performs a bloody ritual involving one of their group, Laura. Jessica and the others flee in horror, after which Dracula is resurrected and kills Laura. Laura's body is discovered, drained of blood, and a police investigation begins, headed by an Inspector Murray. Van Helsing, who is shocked to learn the details of Laura's death. Alucard is turned into a vampire. The vampire Alucard lures Jessica's boyfriend, Bob, and he turns him into a vampire as well. While Lorrimer is out, Bob goes to the Van Helsing house and persuades Jessica to come to the café, where he and Alucard capture her and take her to Dracula, dun dun dun! Dracula in the 70's man, how groovy.Dracula AD 1972 isn't a bad movie, it did make me laugh quite a few times, to think that this is what my parents were like in the 1970's is just disturbing, lol. But the script was such a blast to be displayed on the screen. You got very pretty actors including the gorgeous Caroline Munro, who is very under rated and Christopher Neame who I swear is Malcolm McDoweell's under appreciated brother because all those looks that Chris gave to the camera I think was inspired by A Clockwork Orange. Over all if you are into the old Hammer Dracula films, this is definitely worth the look. Even if you're not, I think this is a fun little time capsule to see how scary the 1970's were in the fashion world and how they spoke, what was so "groovy, man". Sock it to me, Dracky, baby! I had a good time watching Dracula AD 1972.7/10
My parents are divorced and I live with my mom, for so long all she could say to me was how much easier it would be if there was a grave of the man she once knew. I couldn't blame her, it's a scary thing not knowing wither you want to hate someone you were brought up to love or just be unbiased. I recently rented The Upside of Anger, my mom watched it first, and said that she could've used this movie a long time ago, so I had to see what this movie was about.It's about a mom and her 4 daughters, 3 whom she lives with, and she thinks her husband has left her and his daughters for his secretary and is currently living in Sweden. Denny, a neighbor and friend, offers to help the family out, but also ends up falling in love with the mom as she does as well with him. But trouble ensues as the girls feel more and more of the mom's wrath and the stress of not knowing where their father truly is.The Upside of Anger has a terrific twist ending, but it showed the true emotions and the pain of being left alone. I could relate to the daughters the most obviously and my mom to Joan Allen. I think anyone from a broken home could relate and that's what made this movie very endjoyable.7/10p
I have a little confession that I simply need to say, I rented a TV show by accident over at the video store and didn't realize until I got home, I went back and said that it was a broken DVD and exchanged the DVD for this movie, WHEW! That felt so good! Gosh, I felt like I was going to burn in H-E-double hockey sticks for that if I didn't get that out. :D Sorry, I just always talk about in the first paragraph how I came across the movie, so that's the story. But anywho, I just finished From Here to Eternity, the timeless classic that was before An Officer and a Gentleman and I have to say that I really did enjoy this movie.A private, played by Cliff, is brutally treated badly by his army crew since he refuses to fight, boxing, for them. He falls in love with this hired lady to entertain the army men and she falls for him, finding herself in jeopardy of her job with an AWOL private who is now on the run for murder! Also, the second in command chief is falling for the captain's distressed wife and they have a very steamy affair that they find themselves getting deeper and deeper into trouble with.From Here to Eternity was such a great film for the simple fact of how honest it was. I was thinking about film classics today when a friend and I were discussing it and I mentioned how they are so different from today's films, they seem so acted, but not over done, and they were never ashamed. They did the best they could and these films were made to be good, not to make money or get famous. That's what makes From Here to Eternity a great film to watch, we need more films like this today! 8/10
I saw the remake recently of House of Wax and mainly that was because I just wanted to see Paris Hilton die once and for all! I was a satisfied customer, but the movie actually turned out to be pretty good, so I was very curious to see the original, especially since I love Vincent Price. Who wouldn't love him? He's the king of B-Horror Movies. He has brought us House of Wax, the original haunting tale of an artist who went too far to create his works of art.Henry Jarrod is an artist who has devoted his life to his wax museum, but when his partner is upset with the investment and wishing it had better success, he offers to burn the place down and split the insurance money with Henry. But Henry refuses, his partner goes through with it by burning the place down and knocking Henry unconscious and leaving him for dead. But a little while later, his partner convinces the insurance company that Henry is dead and collects the insurance money, but things start to happen like the partner dies but it looks like suicide and Cathy's, our leading lady, best friend is murdered by a horribly disfigured man and her best friend's body disappears only to happen to look like a figure of Henry's new exhibit.House of Wax maybe be tame by today's standards, but just think of the time, no one ever thought in a million years of something this horrific. A sick artist taking our corpses or killing us just because we would inspire him, it's a scary thought. Vincent Price added so much horror and beauty to this picture that will never be forgotten once you have seen it.8/10
I am such a huge fan of Simon Pegg, I really love this guy, he is such a great comedic actor and has so much potential, but what is with How to Lose Friends & Alienate People? How did he get this mediocre script? Now granted, I'm going to give this movie a little credit, it's better than most romantic comedies, but I'm just so sadly disappointed with this movie. I was so excited to see it because from the trailer it looked incredibly funny, but you know those movies where all the funny parts are shown in the trailer, then you see the movie and the rest of the film just doesn't get you like the trailer did? That's How to Lose Friends & Alienate People in a nutshell. Simon Pegg is funny, but for some reason he seems more forced than usual in this movie and his chemistry with Kirsten Dunst is off. While there are some funny moments, this is not the laugh out loud comedy I was expecting.Sydney Young has always dreamed of rubbing elbows with the big time celebrities, he has a job as a celebrity journalist, but he's not exactly well known, so he's constantly thrown out of the parties and award shows. He is offered a job at Sharp's Magazine in New York City, but he's not having the easiest time being accepted by his peers. They think he's a creep, a loser, a low life, etc. But with the help of sarcastic journalist, Alison Olsen, Sydney is soon rubbing his elbows with the rich and famous hoping to date the gorgeous new hot actress, Sophie Maes.How to Lose Friends & Alienate People didn't do well here in the U.S. and I think because it didn't receive the proper publicity. Simon Pegg needs to make one movie that is really going to stand out here in the U.S. that will give him the proper push into a great leading man around the world. Kirsten doesn't look like she really enjoyed making this film and I think that's what threw her and Simon off, she seemed as forced as Simon, so this film didn't really work. There are a couple laughs here and there, but nothing to really get excited about, so I'm just going to say if you want to still see this movie, I'd recommend just doing a rental, it's a basic romantic comedy, just nothing too special.5/10
There are two kind of horror films: fantasy and realistic. Some even try to do a little mixture of both and can get away with it. A little low budget film that just got a lot of word of mouth made it pretty big. The way I heard of The Human Centipede was a challenge from my fiancé's brother's girlfriend, she knows my love of horror films and she said I would never be able to handle this movie. I laughed and said that I would check it out and I was expecting something really horrific, after all I've seen A Serbian Film and Irreversiblewas this really worse than those two? So I actually bought the film without seeing it first; my mistake. I watched the interview with the director first on the special features because I knew what the film was about but was curious if the director was going to talk about where he got the idea from: he joked about how a child molester should have his mouth glued to a fat trucker's butt. At that point I knew I was in for one heck of a ride.Lindsay and Jenny, two American tourists in Germany, are drugged and involuntarily detained by crazed surgeon Dr. Josef Heiter when they seek help at his house after their car breaks down. When the women wake up, Heiter has secured a male captive, Japanese tourist Katsuro. The doctor explains that he is a world-renowned expert at separating Siamese twins, but dreams of making new creatures by sewing people together. He describes in detail how he will surgically connect his three victims mouth-to-anus, so that they share a single digestive system. Heiter performs the surgery on his victims, placing Katsuro at the front, Lindsay in the middle and Jenny at the rear. During his procedure, Heiter severs the ligaments in his victims' knees so they cannot stand and are forced to crawl, and sticks the victims together in a line with their mouths surgically attached to the anus of the person in front of them. Now Heitler treats them like a pet and takes on the role of God as the victims want to escape this insane house.The director, to me, seems very full of himself and depends too much on the concept of the film and looks to shock people into remembering the movie. Is the film gross? Yeah, I think so. Is the film outrageous? Yes, I think it's a very original idea. However, he states that he got a surgeon to state that this film was 100% accurate which is very hard to believe. Because if this was to be done in real life, the victims would die of infection or dehydration. The plot holes are a plenty as the doctor can take his centipede upstairs, downstairs, inside and outside without any issue or explanation. The doctor removes the victim's knee ligaments to prevent them from standing up and having a better chance of escaping, when they wake up from the surgery, they somehow can already stand on their knees. How is this possible without physical therapy first? It wasn't believable.Also the two female victims are completely obnoxious and stupid that you don't feel any sympathy for them. The cliché's are insanely outnumbered: no cell signal, taking a crazy route to a night club that leads you in the middle of no where, flat tire in the middle of a storm and the crazy insane creepy doctor that everyone plays dumb around like he's normal and also accept drinks from him. To be honest, he's the only thing that's good about the film and that's because of Dieter Laser's performance. You're sympathizing with the villain here, folks! The leader of the centipede played by Akihiro Kitamura was also very good because he's given more development and human depth. But also the torture factor wasn't there enough to really make an effect on your soul. I've seen much worse, I'll put it that way. This film had a lot of potential to be something special and really was a let down. Have a message, have a meaning if you're going for realism, not just because it would look funny or cool to have people's mouths attached to a butt.4/10
I was watching I love the 90's with my sister last night and the mentioned Sling Blade, I remember trying to watching this when I was younger, but I couldn't get through it. Figuring now that I'm a little older to give it a chance and I'm glad I did, I just watched it last night and I was extremely impressed with the fact that this was Billy Bob's first movie, not only did he act in it, but he also wrote and directed it as well. It was like Forrest Gump meets Silence of the Lambs, it was a movie that kept your nerves up and your curiosity going into what would happen next.Karl is a slow man who has just been released from the mental institution for killing his mom and her boyfriend when he was a child. When he is released into town, he has no where to stay, but then he meets a young boy who he befriends, the boy has no father and asks his mom if Karl can stay with them, she agrees to it. But their lives are far from perfect, they have an extremely abusive man in their lives, Doyle, who threatens their lives on a daily basis. Karl wants to protect them, but it may lead him back into the life that he was just told he was "well" from.Sling Blade is a very well acted movie that despite it's length, it keeps you going. The characters are so well thought out, it's hard to choose who was the break out actor of the film. But Billy in his first major role, he was just amazing, he looked so calm and relaxing, but yet you didn't know what he was going to do next. John Ritter was also amazing, his character was so sympathetic and beautiful. I would highly recommend this movie, it's a terrific dark drama that deserves it's praise.9/10
Now I was kinda interested in seeing Dreamcatcher when my friend told me that this was a pretty scary film. I watched it last night and I have to say that I was expecting these guys to get it on or something because they tried way too hard to prove their friendships on screen. I haven't read the book by Stephen King, I'm sure it's probably a thousand times better, but I'm not sure if I'll read it just because I think this is too familiar not only to other Stephen King movie adaptations, but novels as well. Dreamcatcher is just a movie that fell apart and had too much CGI along with the director who didn't seem to enjoy making this film.Pete, Jonesey, Henry, and Beaver have been friends almost forever, together they discover they have pretty special powers, that isn't well explained in the film, but there's special things they can do, they also help a young boy called Dudits, who gets brutally picked on. Their friendship continues for years to come, they go camping and end up with a very deadly attack from an alien life form that is killing everything on site. But when the guys are attacked, two are killed, Jonesey is possessed by one and Henry must help stop the attack from going on.Dreamcatcher had big potential, like a new version of The Thing for this generation, but it was too much CGI and more of a gross out horror movie that should have been more of a psychological one in my opinion. When I read that the director did this movie mainly because his mom told him too, I wasn't really surprised, because this is in no way the best Stephen King adaptation, wouldn't recommend it. The acting is bad and so is the script, I'm surprised at the kind rating it has on IMDb.4/10
It's interesting, I saw the trailer to The History Boys a couple weeks ago and this movie looked so good and intelligent. So I rented it and watched it a couple days ago, but I wasn't really impressed. I mean the acting was good and the film in itself was fine, but the plot doesn't hold my interest nore could I understand how anyone else could really enjoy it. No offense to the people that made this film or to those who did enjoy the story, just to me it had no point really. Even reading the plot summary, it seemed like these boys didn't learn anything really, they just taught another person to enjoy life like they did.These boys from one of the best high schools in England are about to get huge opportunities to go to the best universities that England has to offer. The principal is sure to see that they will too, so his school could look good, so he has a little chat with the boy's teachers to test them constantly on subjects so they know them back to back on the most accurate details. Another professor comes to the school and observes these boys and he ends up learning more from them actually.The History Boys is an alright film, it just didn't impress me. I wouldn't really recommend it to anyone I know just because I don't think they would get it either. But to those who loved this film and understood it honestly, I'm not sure how you did it, but I salute you. No offense to the team who created this movie, you did fine, but the plot was just not one that had a point to it.5/10
Ever have that summer where you had the worst job in the world, but somehow the best time of your life? Welcome to Adventureland as we go through this journey with James. I had heard little good things about this movie last year, so I caught the movie on Showtime and decided to check it out. Greg Mottola who also wrote Superbad wrote this movie based on some personal experiences of his. He is starting to remind me a little of John Hughes, Superbad was his Sixteen Candles and now Adventureland is his Pretty in Pink. Greg did a great job creating this charming coming of age story that a lot of us can relate too. The whole setting was also awesome, with a lot of teenage films we get a lot of technology that seems so out of place to me in the hands of such young adolescents. In the 1980's, it was about partying and just living your life instead of being on the computer or watching TV. The only slight flaw with this was that it seemed like they had to have some stereotypes to remind us constantly that we were in the 80's, if you take a look at our world while we have some trendy people around us, it's not that common to meet several at the same time unless you're in LA or New York. But it's a minor complaint with this great story.In the summer of 1987 James has just graduated college. He is looking forward to touring Europe for the summer and going to graduate school with a Masters Degree in journalism when his parents tell him they won't be able to help him financially. James looks for summer jobs, but can only find one, at Adventureland, a local amusement park where his childhood friend Frigo works. James is hired immediately by the assistant manager, Bobby, and is assigned to the games area. He meets some of his co-workers: Joel, Paulette, Lisa P., and the park's repairs technician Mike Connell. James meets another games worker, Emily, after she saves him from being stabbed by a disgruntled customer. She later invites him to a party at her house. The following day, James tells Connell about his strong feelings for Em, which Connell tells Emily. Wanting to take things slow, James goes out with Lisa P. But almost in a competition that he's not aware of with Mike Connell who is sleeping with Emily, he must make a decision during this summer wither it's time to grow up or not.I really liked how Adventureland had dimensional characters, normally with a romance story, it's so simple and unrealistic. As for our two leads, Kristen and Jesse, not so strong actors but their chemistry worked enough to where they are very watchable on screen. One of the things I appreciated was that Ryan Reynold's character, he's a jerk who cheats on his wife, but he's also made to be very human, he's a likable personality, he's just doing jerk things. But it's Bill Hader who once again in the movies manages to steal the scenes that he's in as James' boss, Bobby. Bill is just a great comedic actor with awesome timing, he reminds me of Dan Aykroyd, looks and personality and I think he's going to go much farther in his career. Adventureland has the making to be a classic down the line, it has a lot of charm and class that the teenage movies of the 80's had as well, not treating the teenagers as immature kids but young adults who are coming of age. I would recommend this movie, it's a little gem that I'm glad I had the pleasure of watching.8/10
I have to confess, when I saw the trailer for Apocalypto a couple years ago, but it looked over done and boring. When I was at Hollywood Video, I couldn't really decide on a film and just decided to see what this was about. I watched Apocalypto last night and I have to say that this is one of the most memorable films that I have seen in a while. I mean, this film had my whole attention, while the violence is most definitely disturbing to an extreme point, the story is absolutely incredible and wonderful. It's rare now days to have an original movie in Hollywood, everything is always ripped off or paid as an "omage" to something, or is a remake of a classic film. Mel Gibson brought us something that as uncomfortable as it was, it was an incredible film, the acting, the make up, the sets, the story, the language, everything in this film is just makes it's mark and exceeds at what it's moral is: courage and strength.Jaguar Paw is a member of his Mayan tribe, his destiny is to be a hero, but he doesn't necessarily believe it, but he's going to have to start believing in himself if he is to help his pregnant wife and child from a ravage attack from another tribe who is about to offer himself and others as sacrifices. But he must remain strong to save his family and go through the ultimate and most horrific game of cat and mouse when he escapes the warriors and now is running for his life.Apocalypto is a very strong movie and I'm so glad that I decided to rent it, I can't tell you, I've been thinking about this film a lot, it had such an effect on me. I think because the story is just so incredible and realistic as well as disturbing. I just loved how Jaguar Paw stood up to the warriors and finally fought back, it was so inspirational and great the way he fought. He and his family bring you back to the feeling of just loving your family and protecting them with whatever will you can. I highly recommend this film, it's absolutely amazing and will leave you speechless afterwards.10/10
Public Enemies, this film has been built up for quite a while, why not? It stars Johnny Depp as one of history's most famous bank robbers. Also the city of Chicago has been excited to see this, in some strange way we considered Dillinger to be a Robin Hood as he never took money from the common man, just from the banks. He also was clever enough to escape jail by making a fake gun out of a soap bar, I lived in Indiana for a year and people are incredibly proud that Crown Point was where Dillinger had fooled everyone, lol. So naturally I was really looking forward to seeing this movie, especially with Johnny Depp as John Dillinger, it's a can't miss. Unfortunately for me, the film fell short of our expectations as the way it was made and how there is lack of material for Depp and Bale to work with to give these characters any depth. Mann makes a film that is using a digital camera for a film set in the 1930's and doesn't really bring his A game to the film as it's more like "Here's Dillinger's story enjoy".Set in 1933 John Dillinger is brought to a penitentiary, but is there to break out the rest of his gang. After loosing a few of his friends, he's headed to Chicago to make his mark on the banks. Melvin Purvis is upgraded by J. Edgar Hoover, who is protecting the FBI from scrutiny by politicians, to lead the hunt for John. John later meets Billie Frechette, whom he takes to dinner. He states plainly what he will do for her and how he will treat her if they are to have a relationship. After a shoot out gone horribly wrong and making the police look more incompetent, Purvis demands that Hoover bring in professional lawmen who know how to catch criminals dead or alive. Though Hoover had hoped for more pristine agents, he agrees. While John and Billie are enjoying the luxuries across the States, the police finally find Dillinger and arrest him and his gang in Miami. However, Dillinger and a few inmates escape from prison using a fake gun. He is goaded into a bank robbery job by an acquaintance, Dillinger agrees. The robbery goes fine until Nelson impulsively kills a nearby police officer, alerting more of the robbery, making Dillinger Public Enemy Number 1.Now Public Enemies is by no means a bad film, some of the actors were terrific and the sets were perfect as well as the whole feel of the film. But it just won't stop with the "Run! Chase! Run! Chase! Shoot! Shoot!" scenes that seem to dull down after a while. The love story between Dillinger and his gal, Billie didn't seem too necessary, it added to the story but for me felt a little out of place at times. I have to tell you that I'm feeling so incredibly bad for Christian Bale this year as it seems like he's been given characters who are not well written, but I'm starting to wonder if the Batman voice is his new trademark because he was starting to use that voice again in a few sentences. Depp does the best he can, but once again with the lack of material; he's made out completely as the hero of the film, instead of maybe having more of a documentary feel to it and being biased on how cool Dillinger was. Maybe he's Mann's personal hero, who knows. But over all the film is decent enough for the watch, I'd just say if you want to see it, go for a matinée or a rental, it wasn't worth the full price.7/10
I don't think I could come up with enough words for how much I loved this film, I mean really, I don't think I've had such a great time watching a movie for a while. The other day I was watching a VHS of mine and the Universal Picture monster collection came up and the Invisible Man was one of the selections, I had never seen this movie before. So I went out and rented all the Universal monster movies and I thought this was going to be the most boring one, oh, boy was I wrong. I can't tell you how much fun I had watching this movie, between the ultimate laughter I was screaming and then the actual screams that I got from the scary story that this was, I loved this movie. Claude Rains stole the show and was so powerful, his voice had the perfect amount of comedy, insanity and desperation, he played the role so perfectly, I could never imagine anyone else telling this great story.A mysterious stranger, his face swathed in bandages and his eyes obscured by dark spectacles, goes to a small village demanding a room at an inn. Never leaving his quarters, the stranger demands that the staff leave him completely alone. However, his dark secret is slowly revealed to his suspicious landlady and the villagers: he is an invisible man. The invisible stranger is revealed as Dr. Jack Griffin, a scientist who has discovered the secret of invisibility while conducting a series of tests with a strange new drug. He returns to the laboratory of his mentor, Dr. Cranley, where he reveals his secret to his fiancée Flora Cranley , Dr. Cranley's daughter, and to his one-time partner Dr. Kemp. There he confesses his thirst for the power and the lust he has to destroy the world.Now one of the big surprises for me was the effects, I figured that they were going to keep the Invisible Man in cloth the whole time or maybe movie a couple of things with strings, I didn't expect much. But when I saw the Invisible Man take off the bandages to see nothing underneath, in a time before CGI, this was absolutely incredible. To see all the things movie so flawlessly, I can't believe that they were able to pull this off, bravo to the crew who made that possible because in my generation, all the special effects films I have seen and my jaw was open the whole time I was watching this movie. You also go from laughing to a hilarious beginning to being horrified when you realize that you can go easily mad when there is such power that you can take advantage of. I loved loved loved this movie, I highly recommend it on every level that you can enjoy a movie and if you don't like this movie, there's something wrong with you. The Invisible Man is not only a classic, but just a great movie in general.10/10
Despite how predictable and unrealistic 48 Hrs. was, I ended up loving it! I wanted to get the famous movies of Eddie Murphy into my movie comment collection. But also on my own, I wanted to see Beverly Hills Cop and 48 Hrs., because Eddie Murphy always makes me laugh in one way or another. He's done it again with his classic cop movie, 48 Hrs., and there is no doubt that he stole the show.48 Hrs. is about two killers on the loose who are after some payback money, Nick Nolte wants to catch them to get a boost at work. So, he gets Eddie Murphy, a convict from prison, to help him catch these guys. But while Nick is a gun happy cop, Eddie is a street smart sass, you get where I'm going if you've seen these buddy cop movies. You know the saying, you see one of those films, you've seen them all.Thank God there isn't a sequel, I'm just saying that sometimes these movies get out of hand. But I loved 48 Hrs., it was hilarious and Nick and Eddie had great chemistry that will remain eternally classic. I loved Eddie's signature laugh in the film. He's just great and my opinion, can do no wrong.8/10
So I was one of those people who was screaming no at The Day The Earth Stood Still remake, the original is one of my favorite movies. It's a terrific sci-fi film, probably the best to come out of the 50's era. I highly recommend it; moving onto the, sigh, remake. Keanu Reeves, mmmm, what on Earth about him scream alien? I guess since it looks like it hurts when his face expresses human emotion, he's what the director needed. But what I didn't appreciate about the remake is that it completely changed the story and the moral the first movie brought to us. If we were to have a remake of this story, at least it seems like in today's world it moral is more important than ever, that humans are just destroying themselves with all the technology and violence that we have created. Instead, I get 2 hours of Jennifer Connelly complaining to a stubborn Keanu Reeves on how much humans rock.Dr. Helen Benson, a Princeton professor, and other scientists are hastily assembled by the government in order to formulate a survival plan when it is feared that a large unknown object is due to impact Manhattan in approximately 78 minutes. Nothing can be done about it because a vital military satellite has been disabled. It hits Earth and out of the sphere comes a being named Klaatu emerges from the sphere while accompanied by a large robot. Klaatu, a representative of a group of alien races, has come to assess whether humanity can reverse the environmental damage it has inflicted on planet Earth. In the frightened confusion, Klaatu is shot, but survives and is taken to a government facility. While recovering from his injuries, Klaatu is detained by Regina Jackson, the United States Secretary of Defense, and is barred from speaking to the United Nations. Klaatu manages to escape, and he soon finds himself eluding the authorities throughout northern New Jersey, specifically Newark and the forested Highlands, with Helen and her stepson Jacob. After speaking with Professor Barnhardt about how his own species went through drastic evolution to survive its sun's demise, Klaatu is convinced by Helen and Jacob that humans can change their ways and are worth saving The three go toward the sphere in Central Park to stop the machine from destroying the world.So when I really think about this movie, it just makes me sad. I was going to be fair with the rating, but gosh, those special effects? For 2008, it seems like we got worse with CGI, the ending effects were just way way way over the top. Keanu Reeves is sadly the only convincing actor in the film...? Oh, my God, did I just say that? Not to mention, did Kathy Bates owe someone a favor? She's a terrific actress, why was she in here? I also love how Jaden Smith, Will Smith's son, is taking his daddy's footsteps in alien movies, does Will Smith come from another planet? Because it seems like that family is obsessed with aliens. I'm going to do you a favor and recommend watching the original Day the Earth Stood Still, believe me, it's so much better.3/10
I am a fan of the first Madagascar film, I know there are a lot of people who dissed it, but I thought it was cute. So when I saw the trailer for Madagascar: Escape 2 Africa, I was excited. I saw it on Friday and I absolutely enjoyed this fun family film. I think this even had a more coherent plot as well, plus how could you not love the penguins? They are absolutely hilarious and need their own movie, maybe a Full Metal Jacket with penguins! Anyways, I loved the characters so much, they're back and better than ever. They even ended up giving the little old lady from the first Madagascar who fought Alex the Lion, she has a bigger role and was so awesome to watch and listen too. I think the jokes were even funnier than the first Madagascar, my favorite scene without a doubt was the plane sequence in the beginning. But the whole story was just a blast to watch.Alex, Marty, Gloria, and Melman are still looking to go back to Africa, everything seems to be a good and they start to fly back with the penguins as well as Julien. But the plane runs out of fuel and crashes, they are still in Africa, but bump into an animal pack where Alex finds his long lost parents, Marty finds out that all zebras are like him(imagine being surrounded by 1,000 Chris Rocks*shudder*), Gloria has a hunky hippo who is crushing on her, and Melman becomes the giraffe witch doctor of his group. Alex is about to be initiated into his pride, but one lion does not want him part of the group and will do anything to become leader.Madagascar: Escape 2 Africa is definitely worth your watch, it's not the animated film of the year, but it was a lot of fun to watch. It kind of reminded me of The Lion King a little bit, it has a similar story. It's a great family film and is fun for both the kids and the adults as well. Although I still think it's funny that Alex is voiced by Ben Stiller and his dad is voiced by Bernie Mac, but it's all good, who knows, maybe Alex's dad just had a little more soul in him. I would recommend this film, it was a lot of fun to watch and I suggest we write in a script for those penguins! They're a blast to watch on screen.7/10
As we've seen many movies like this before: Big, 13 Going on 30, and Freaky Friday, we always love to see the retelling of the old classic story of the switching age. Since the story has been used so much, a director can only do so much to just do the best they can with, Burr Steers pulls 17 Again out with great laughs and good fun. I'm going to get this out, I am one of the rare girls that just doesn't get the whole Zac Efron heart throb thing, I agree that he's cute, but with mainly High School Musical only being his claim to fame other than Hairspray, he is adorable, but can he act? Surprisingly he can. I can't believe I'm saying this, he was actually a good strong lead role and a perfect fit, he has charisma, he's funny, charming and makes this story worth your time and money.In 1989, Michael O'Donnell was a star athlete with a full college scholarship imminent. He seemingly had it all, when, right before the championship game, his girlfriend Scarlett informed him she was pregnant. In that moment, he made the decision to throw everything away and proposed to her. Twenty years later, Mike's life isn't exactly what he expected it to be. Scarlett wants a divorce from him, forcing him to move in with his geeky millionaire best friend Ned, his job is going nowhere, and his kids Maggie and Alex want nothing to do with him. While paying a visit to Hayden High School to reminisce about the life he threw away, he encounters a strange beardy janitor, who I still swear is Bob Haskins. On the way home, is magically transformed back into his 17-year old self. With Ned posing as his father, he re-enrolls in high school, believing he has been given the chance to have his life over again, "but to do it right". However, he then discovers that his daughter is dating the basketball captain Stan, who is bullying his son. He realizes that his real mission is to help his children as well as finding out that maybe his decision wasn't the worst he ever made in his life.We go a little Back to the Future-esquire when we get on the creepy level of Michelle Trachtenberg having a crush on Zac Efron who is her father, just that she can't recognize him, it's understanding, but still makes you squirm, but the director and actors pulled the scene off pretty well with getting out of that yucky situation. There is one continuity error: if Mike and his girl got pregnant at the age of 17... 20 years later, yet both their kids are still in high school, the oldest child would only be a maximum of 18. A plot hole: seriously, besides the wife, no one at all recognizes Mike? But I'm over thinking the movie too much at this point, it's just a fun movie with decent performances, I just need to let go of silly mistakes. So I would recommend this movie if you get the chance to see it, but I'd say more of a matinée vs. a full price ticket, it has some good laughs and was a great update of the "What if you could go back?" story.7/10
If you know me in real life, you'd test me constantly on movie trivia, pretty much all of my friends do. But one of my favorite things they do is ask which movies I haven't seen and try to stump me, which my boyfriend did the other day with Stripes. I was a bit confused because I thought it was a movie I would have seen but never did. So he bought the movie and we watched it, from what he was describing, I was expecting one of the funniest comedies. After all it has Bill Murray, Harold Ramis and John Candy, some of the funniest actors of all time. But honestly I wasn't all that impressed, not to put the movie down, it does have some funny moments. Bill and Harold have excellent chemistry and make for great best friends on screen. John Candy is always a pleasure to watch and honestly I think that he stole the movie, he is just one of the most lovable actors in history and naturally you can't help but adore him. I watched his biography the other day and apparently the mud wrestling scene was very uncomfortable with him because of his weight, but he did it anyways just for the laughs and that's what makes him so wonderful, he is willing to do anything to put a smile on a person's face. But as wonderful as his presence is, Stripes is still over rated.John Winger is a slacker in his late 20s who experiences the worst day of his life as, in the span of just a few hours, he quits his job, his car is repossessed, he drops his pizza on the street, and his girlfriend dumps him. Realizing that his life is a failure, he decides he needs a new direction. At that moment, a recruiting ad for the U.S. Army plays on the television, and he decides that is just what he needs to get in shape. Talking his best friend Russell into joining, they quickly drive to the nearest recruiting office and are soon off to basic training. Moments after arriving, Winger has already offended their drill sergeant, Sergeant Hulka, and stands out as a misfit throughout basic training. So throughout training, Winger keeps messing up and continues to be a goof as others are punished for his actions. He starts to question if the army really was for him all along or if there is still a strong possibility to over come it all and be an adult.So did I hate the movie? No, I did like it. One of the scenes that I did really enjoy was when Murray finally gets his act together and pulls his troop in for the graduation and shows off. It was well put together and really excited me. I also loved how Murray makes some of the drills into a joke and as they're marching they start singing the "do-a-diddee" song. There are some memorable moments in the movie that definitely make it worth the watch. But over all I have to say that the script isn't one of those "non stop laughs" stories. It's one of those movies that I saw once and am more than happy with seeing the one time. So for nostalgic reasons, I would recommend it big time, plus it has an excellent cast that I'm sure you'll love. Though I admit, these were the good ol' days of dirty comedies and didn't apologize about it, I miss those and at least with Stripes I got a little of my traumatic childhood back.6/10
OK, every trailer I have seen on TV for Hamlet 2, you see the big reviews of "Hilerious!" or "One of the year's best comedies!", so I got to see Hamlet 2 yesterday and this was seriously one of the strangest films I have seen and had the strangest humor. While it did make me laugh, I will never deny it that, but it's so over the top that there are some moments where you just raise one eye brow and scratch your head. This was written by one of the writers from South Park, normally you'd think that means it's going to be a mega hit with great comedic writing, however some of the movie drags on and some of the jokes are also more scary than funny. But I'm not completely dissing Hamlet 2, there are some genuinely funny moments that really made me laugh out loud. The story is pretty ridicules, but it's much better than most comedies that are very predictable and have no originality.Dana Marschz is a failed actor turned high school drama teacher, a drama teacher that makes horrible plays, he has passion for it, but has no idea how to get the motivation from his students. He has a crazy alcoholic wife at home with some random guy who is their room mate, and his drama program is being threatened in being taken away due to financial set backs. But Dana isn't giving up, he and his class are going to perform a play that he has written, Hamlet 2, the most offensive play in the world where nothing is off limits and he doesn't care what people say, he and the students over come all the protest to put on this very strange play.Hamlet 2, let's just put it this way, you really need a certain sense of humor to get into it, this is not your typical comedy that everyone is going to laugh at. I'm very open to different comedies and know when there are moments to laugh, but I also know when there are some things that are just a little over the top. Steve Coogen is a decent lead actor, but there wasn't anything so special that stood out about him. So over all, I would say if you are open minded to comedies, you might get into this, there are some good parts, but like I said this has some very strange and demented jokes, so I'm just on the line with liking it and forgetting about it.6/10
I have heard so much about Jacob's Ladder and it was one of those movies I was always meaning to rent it, but I always forgot it when I was at the video store, but finally I came across it and remembered. So when I watched it tonite, I felt like I went through a major trip, this movie was so mentally disturbing to watch and very horrific, I wasn't even sure if it was a drama, thriller, horror, or maybe all.Jacob is a veteran soldier from Vietnam, he lives with his girlfriend, and he starts seeing these horrific images of demons all around. He has dealt with so much, he's lost his wife and children, including the death of his one child played by a very young Maculey Culkin, and he has dealt with the most nightmarish moments in Vietnam. He thinks he is alone, but then an old friend calls and it turns out that his whole team is having the same problems and are all having horrible car accidents, in order to Jacob to survive he has to get away from the men who are chasing him to shut him up for good.Jacob's Ladder is one of the most disturbing films I have seen in a long time, I was actually shaking after this film was done. A lot of the scenes were just so scary and you felt Tim Robbin's isolation and fear, he was so amazing and this was an incredibly under rated performance, but he's just plain wonderful. I would recommend this, but not for the light stomach, it's a bit graphic.7/10
Oh, boy, a film about George W. Bush, could be the new "Forrest Gump", lol. My head still hurts, because I was just banging it on the wall after I watched this film, how in the heck did this man run our country for 8 years without burning it down? Now I understand why this film was released right before election time, now I work at a movie theater and everyone who came out of the theater said they felt bad for W. and a couple of my friends who I saw the film said they also felt bad for him... how about us?! OK, before I start banging my head up against the wall again, so Oliver Stone is the critical director who decided to take on this wonderful project. The film is actually well made, Josh Brolin does a decent job of portraying our constant dumbfounded president, the story is pretty sad when you think about all the pressures he must face on a daily basis.Based on George W. Bush's life, we go from when he was just a crazy party animal in college. Dubbed as the black sheep of the family, that his brother would be more suited as president, facing constant criticism from his father George Bush, Sr. who was also our president for a short time. We explore W.'s life with his family, his presidency, the pressure he faces, and the Iraq war. We also go into his world of having to pull himself out of his rut with his family who constantly puts him down with a country who is not exactly proud of him as well.W. is a good film, it's well acted and put together, however, my main complaint, but I think there is a reason why, is that Oliver completely skips the election controversy we faced in 2000 as well as 9/11 which I thought was an important subject to touch. But I have a feeling why he didn't bring it up is due to how hard those times were for him and wasn't exactly sure how to go at it. Over all this is a watchable movie, but for me, it is forgettable, I don't know if it will be considered a classic down the line, but I guess we'll find out if our future kids are watching it in their history classes and asking us "what were you on when you voted for this guy?".6/10
The funny thing about this film, I really didn't hear too much about it, I had just read a lot about it in my film books and how this movie pretty much made Robin Williams what he is today. I love Robin Williams, he is one of the greatest comedic actors of our time and not to mention a terrific man who really gets involved in his charities, I have a lot of respect for him, so I figured that I should probably see this movie since I'm a pretty decent fan of his. While it wasn't as outrageous as Mrs. Doubtfire, it was still a fun and realistic movie that made you laugh and feel.Robin plays Adrien, a marine who has been brought to Vietnam actually for a radio show due to his comedic reputation and he blows his audience away with great sketches along with the best music of our time. But Adrien is also somewhat playing with fire when he decides to read "unofficial" news that shouldn't be broadcast according to the military, which disappoints Adrien since the audience is being held back from the truth. He also makes some Vietnese friends, one of which he finds out to be part of the enemy while he is in love with the enemy's sister.Good Morning, Vietnam really shined Robin William's talents and strength towards being a star. He and the cast brought together a great comedy mixed with very dark drama. It had great acting and a unique story that I'm sure that anyone could enjoy. While it's not really a true Vietnam movie, it's still a decent film that deserves a look. This film did terrific things for Robin, we owe it to this film for that.8/10
I was pretty scared seeing Good Luck Chuck after seeing all the bad reviews on IMDb, the rating just seems to be going down and down. But my friend wanted to see it today, so we saw it, while I didn't think it's the worst movie I've seen, it's definitely a flop in some ways. I'm not trying to be mean or anything like that, just that the plot did have some great potential for a fun comedy, but I think it was the cast that blew it. Dane Cook was alright, but he's not believable as a sensitive male and his character at the end of the film wasn't that likable or funny. Jessica Alba doesn't work well in comedies, she's the looks, that's it, her character was just a ditz and made you wonder why she was supposed to be so perfect for the role of Charlie's girlfriend. And who ever the heck decided to cast Dan Fogler as Charlie's best friend was sorely mistaken, because I just wanted to smack his character to death, he was so obnoxious.Charlie is only 10 at his first girl/boy party and when he doesn't do a goth girl a favor by kissing her, she hexes him to make him where if he sleeps with a girl, she breaks up with him and moves onto the next guy to marry him. Now grown up, Charlie and his perverted best friend, Stu claim it's just an urban legend. But when it's proving multiple times that every girl he sleeps with is getting married to another guy right afterwards, Stu encourages Charlie to just take advantage. But that all changes when Charlie meets a clumsy girl, Cam and of course because of the hex, he can't sleep with her until it's put to the ultimate test of if he's really cursed or not.The main problem with Good Luck Chuck isn't just the cast, it's the characters, they were not well written and not that likable. Stu was just plain annoying and so not funny. Jessica was just alright and Dane wasn't believable. Also some of the jokes were a little out there and not really that funny, like the joke with the "fat and mean" girl, it was stereotypical and pretty rude. I'm not that sensitive, but it was just a little low in my opinion. Good Luck Chuck is a below average comedy that is more of a rental than a watch at the theater, so I suggest you just wait.4/10
I had heard wonderful things about Gone Baby Gone, it was a semi-silent hit of 2007 and the first film that I've seen that was directed by Ben Affleck which was interesting to see a different side of his talents. Gone Baby Gone is one of those films that is so far from entertainment, but you'll be glad to see at least once. I think because the subject is just so disturbing and has always been a big one: "In the best interest of the child", what is right and what is wrong? What are your morals? But what about your conscience? The questions just boggle your mind in this deep intense drama. The actors, a surprising great performance on Casey's part, just seemed to care about this film and that was what made it work without putting people too off about Gone Baby Gone.A little girl is missing and the search by the police is just failing. When the little girl's aunt asks two private detectives, Patrick Kenzie and Angie Gennaro, who are also boyfriend/girlfriend, to help them on the case. They learn how the drug addict/seller mother was just extremely neglectful of her child, so much to when she took money from her drug boss, he is the suspect of the case, but when that proves to be false, things get more deep and dark. After another child missing/possible murder case, Patrick does to the criminal what he feels best at the moment and then has to deal with the biggest dilemma at the end.Gone Baby Gone was one of those films that had me shaking after I watched it. I think because I was studying to become a teacher and when I was student teaching, I saw the innocence in children's eyes, why would anyone want to harm them? How could a parent risk their child's life? What lengths would you go to, just to protect a child's innocence? That's the main point of this movie I think, and the crew and cast were absolutely brilliant in maintaining the dignity this story deserved. I would recommend it for a watch, but I think once is enough for me to be honest.9/10
I mean, we see a film that has the Coen Brother's name on it, it's usually going to equal gold, these guys have brought us some pretty amazing movies, like Fargo, The Big Lebowski and of course the latest classic that won best picture No Country for Old Men. They now bring us Burn After Reading, basically a movie about how the most average people can be really stupid. Let me put to you this way, imagine the dumb jock who thinks that he's smart and can pull something as far as trying to blackmail the CIA into giving him money, oh yeah, I know, right? But the reason why the Coen Brothers make such memorable films, their odd ball characters, I mean they know how to tell a story, but their characters are what make the film so memorable... just look at Fargo: Marge Gunderson... The Big Lebowski: The Dude... and No Country for Old Men: Anton Chigurh, who takes this movie? Tough call to say right now, but I have to say the underdog in this movie is played by John Malkovich.The movie starts with CIA agent Osborne Cox who just got canned from his job and he goes home, not exactly heaven, his wife is horrible and cold, she's cheating on him. she's cheating with a man, Harry Pfarrer, who is married and is just cheating with everyone possible, including a woman, Linda Litzke, who along with her gym trainer co-worker, Chad Feldheimer is framing Cox for a CD of his memoirs that has information that the CIA wouldn't like the public to get their hands on. Linda wants money for her cosmetic surgery and gets Chad, who's screws aren't exactly tightened, and they play a game they shouldn't play with the CIA, blackmail.Burn After Reading is a very smart and intelligent comedy, I was very impressed with how well told it was and the acting is just as usual nothing short of greatness. We have an A-list cast that truly delivers, both Brad and George bring some humor to this technically dark tale, but like I said, the performance I found most impressive was John Malkvich, I haven't seen him in anything in a bit, so it was nice to see him perform and do a fantastic job as well. His scene with Brad Pitt in the car where Brad is trying to play bad cop with him is so memorable and delivers a great laugh. Burn After Reading is definitely a must see in the theater, like I said before, I mean, it's the Coen Brotehrs, need I say more? Well, I'm sure we've forgotten their little mistake by now, like The Lady Killers, so go ahead and enjoy their new treasure Burn After Reading.9/10
The X-Files, one of the most famous television shows that ended in 2002, had a movie in 2000, just came out with a sequel. To be honest, I was wondering why, I know that there are still fans that are shaking to see their favorite agents back, but the story was weak and felt like another episode, just an extended one. Now I did enjoy The X-Files series, I also did like the first X-Files film, so I felt like maybe this was going to be big and have an exciting story, but instead we have just another episode that is trying to have the Saw edge and gross people out. We also have some added characters that are just weak, for example Xzibit as a one dimensional character who is just flat and typical, also, it's Xzibit, I don't know what casting director was thinking "he's perfect", no offense to this guy, but he should stick to his day job. David and Gillain are also off track and don't have the same chemistry as they did in the series.Fox Mulder has been requested back by the FBI to help them with a case of missing female FBI agents, he meets a priest/pedophile/psychic who is also helping the FBI out with the case. Dana Scully has decided to stay with her current career as a doctor who is struggling to save a little boy's brain disease. But Fox wants her back in work with him and together they discover the darker world that is happening with these missing FBI agents and the Russian black market.The X Files: I Want to Believe is over all not a bad movie by any means, but it's at this point that it seems like the writers were not even trying. Also with David and Gillain, I like to call this movie The X Files: I Want a Paycheck, because they just didn't put their hearts into this and you can tell very much, I thought David hated the series, you think he would have been more stubborn or at least would have read the script first before the paycheck. As far as for the fans, I'd recommend that you just do the matinée, it's not a full price ticket movie, it's just an extended episode, the ending is anti-climatic and this was just pointless.5/10
One of the things that used to scare me the most when I was a child was the film, The Time Machine. My sister told me when I was 3 years old that this film just made me cry and scream with fear. So I haven't seen this film since I was a child, but I don't know why I stayed away from it. I watched The Time Machine the other day and just fell in love with it. But I can see why I was such a traumatized child, those Morlocks were crazy scary, even though you could say that this is a bit dated, but it still has such great style and effects. Rod Taylor made such a great leading man, as George he is strong, intelligent and quick witted. The funny thing about this film is that I don't think that the "future" of this film wasn't far fetched, it's funny that the Eloi were just a bunch of air heads, even though you find out why and feel sympathy for them. But they do not read books and just sit there to look pretty, you could call the Morlocks celebrities as they feed off of the Eloi's worshiping them. This is the film that was before "Idiocracy", once again, just not too far fetched and more disturbing when you think about it.On New Year's Eve 1899, a young inventor, George discusses time as the fourth dimension with friends. He shows them a tiny machine that he claims can travel in time. He claims that a larger version can carry a man "into the past or the future". When activated, the device blurs, then disappears. Most of his friends dismiss it as a trick. George heads to his lab and sits in his full-scale model. He pushes the lever forward, and watches time pass at an accelerated rate. He stops the machine on October 12, 802,701, next to a low building with a large sphinx on top. George explores the seemingly idyllic pastoral paradise and spots young adults by a river. A woman is drowning, but the others are indifferent. George rescues her, but is surprised by her lack of gratitude or other emotion. She calls herself Weena and her people the Eloi. As night falls, George is surprised to find out that the Eloi have no government, no laws, and no civilization to speak of. Weena insists they go back inside after George tries to leave, for fear of "Morlocks". A creature that eats the Eloi, explaining their lack of passion for knowledge or goals, they are specifically bred to die. George has to find a way to save the Eloi and get back home finding that this wasn't the future he wanted.The Time Machine has little flaws, the effects are pretty dated, most of the "world collapsing" scenes were obviously smaller sets split in half. Also the make up of the Morlocks could be considered dated, even though I still found them pretty creepy. I still found the film to be very effective despite little flaws that are very easy to let go of. But the chemistry between George and Weena was very sweet but also sad as their worlds are so different, they had a beautiful romance. The story also makes you wonder, we always ask one another if we would go back or forth in time if having the option and The Time Machine questions that notion once again as George sees a very sad future. I think this was a classic film and a great adaptation of the excellent novel. I don't see how anyone could dismiss this film, it's just a great film that I cannot wait to see again. Even to this day I still get the creeps from the cheesy make up of the Morlocks.9/10
I saw Wrong Turn quite a few years ago, it was a decent slasher film that despite it's clichés and typical characters, it was good enough to get by. Then a second one was released and believe it or not, it was actually goodheck, it was better than the first! It was one of those movies that was so outrageous it was just a good time. Then for some reason they decided to make these films into a series/franchise with a third Wrong Turn. The film really didn't work, it had some good gore effects, but the characters were lacking and to be honest the villains are not that scary. I mean, inbred cannibals are not exactly high on the boogeyman lists. Besides, we already had Deliverance, wasn't that enough touch on crazy inbreeds? But still, giving the third one some credit, at least it wasn't Wrong Turn 4! You think the characters were horrible in the third film, just wait till you hear about these morons.In 1974 at the Glenville Sanatorium, Dr. Brendan Ryan is showing a local psychiatrist around the psychiatric hospital and shows her three young cannibals: Three-Finger, Saw-Tooth & One-Eye. Before they leave, the cannibals escape and set the other patients free in the hospital. The cannibals then torture and murder Dr. Ryan & the other visitors. In the future, Kenia, Sara and Bridget along with their friends Claire, boyfriend Kyle, Jenna boyfriend Vincent, Lauren, and boyfriend Daniel are going snowmobiling, heading to Kenia's boyfriend Porter's cabin in the mountains. Before they get there, they get lost in the snowstorm forcing them to find shelter in the abandoned Glenville Sanatorium. Little do they know, the three cannibals are hiding out in the sanatorium and murdering trespassers.So let me tell you about this film really, the characters are beyond obnoxiouslike incredibly to the point where you're wishing they'd die annoying! They are a cliché in getting lost in the middle of no where with a blizzard and decide to go into an abandoned hospital where the lights are still somehow working. I guess the inbreeds may be inept of any rational thought but can manage to keep a hospital going? Not only that, but how is it the doctor victims they killed earlier, their families never bothered looking for them at their work? OK, let's give the suspension of disbelief. So then what do our group of protagonists decide to do in their time of trying to figure a way to get back to safety? Let's smoke weed, get drunk and have a ton of sex! Of course the inbreeds get ahold of them and start the killing spreethey are all facing one way in an auditorium, the blonde girl gets a barbed wire(where do the inbreeds get barbed wire? I do not know) around her throat and as everyone turns around in horror, her boyfriend grabs her by the feet trying to pull her down while there's barbed wire around her neck and acts totally surprised when her blood is pouring down on him and she gets decapitated. Then what good friends this guy has, they run off and leave him! All we needed was the Benny Hill music playing during this scene, it would've been much better.Then one of the guys gets captured by the inbreeds and while he's screaming hysterically for his life as the inbreeds are eating him alivewhat does our group of heroes decide to do? Go and save him? No, let's have a 10 minute conversation first and vote and then when going to go save him, let's pause every five seconds to let his flesh get eaten even more. Then when they do find him, let's make a fondue joke about it and surprise, he dies because of your time management skills! Then they capture the inbreeds and decide to burn them alive, no! The lead hero of our group tells the guy to not burn them and not sink to the inbred's levelyeah, because they had so much consideration for you and your friends. So she's the reason for all the deaths in the previous films! Some hero we're supposed to be rooting for! It gets worse from there, I have to cut my comment here, but bottom line, please stay away from this film. There is nothing redeeming about this movie, it's bad writing, bad characters and just plain a bad movie.1/10
A few weeks ago my mom and I were watching Insomnia on TV when it was storming out and right as the conclusion was about to happen, the power went out! Don't you hate it when that happens? So I just had to rent this movie and finish it, I just watched it this morning and I have to say that Insomnia was a very clever thriller, almost on the edge of Hitchcock. The plot was so very interesting and also makes you question your own ethics on what is right and what is wrong. It's rare that a movie really does have that kind of effect on you, where you almost wonder if it would be so bad if someone got away with something so terrible. The actors in this film were absolutely terrific in their performances, especially Robin Williams who has proved to many that he can act brilliantly in a drama and now in the thrillers. Insomnia is a clever thriller that I was very impressed with.Will Dormer and Hap Eckhart are two detectives from L.A. who are coming to Alaska to investigate a the fatal beating of a 17 year old girl, Kay. Dormer meets another cop who admires his work, Ellie Burr. Together along with other policemen they find the killer, but he gets away. In the middle of trying to find the killer in the deep woods in the thickest fog, Will accidentally shoots Hap thinking he's the killer. But scared, Will tells everyone it was the killer that shot him, but then Will gets a phone call from the killer and he knows about Hap. Now Will has a chance to get off scott free along with the killer, but it's a question of him being able to live with this horrible secret while someone who's innocent goes to jail for the killer's crime.Insomnia is a great thriller, I was incredibly pleased with how well it worked. Al Pacino, Hilary Swank, and Robin Willaims all did a terrific job of acting, they really clicked and made the film work. I think one of the scenes that really got to me was Dormer explaining to Rachel about his ways in L.A., what he was "escaping" from, you'll have to see what I mean. But Pacino does a grade A job of acting in that scene, he made it so effective to where you would question on what you would do in a tough situation. I would highly recommend Insomnia, it's a terrific film, just don't watch it in the middle of a bad storm, the ending might get cut off, lol.8/10
I have to admit that I had extremely low expectations for this film, from the trailer, it looked ridicules and probably like a flop. My friends saw it in the theater and told me that it was a fun movie, so I rented it and my mom and I just watched it together tonite and I couldn't believe that I was actually laughing so much during this movie. Despite some silly moments, it still was so much fun, the effects were kinda cheesy, but it worked really well for a family film. I definitely enjoyed the actors and how well it seemed that they got along. It looked like it was a blast making this film.Larry has a problem, he can't seem to hold a job for too long, it's disappointing to his son, but he wants to turn things around and gets hired as a security job at the museum of natural history, but little does he know when the former security guard tells him to watch out for the museum at night and gives him interesting directions, well, you know the saying that museums can bring history to life? Well, that's exactly what this museum does, it's cursed by ancient Egyptians, and every night everything in the museum comes to life and Larry has to figure out a way to deal with it.My favorite scene without a doubt was when Dexter, the monkey, starts slapping Larry and they start slapping each other back and forth. Well, there are tons of funny moments, this movie is just perfect for not only the family but an afternoon, I'm sure you'll realize your money has been well spent when you see it. It had a great cast, fun jokes, and great effects that were not too over the top. It's just a great movie, please watch it and enjoy.7/10
No Country for Old Men is the movie that has everyone talking; this morning, I was reading how this is going to be the Oscar winning movie, I just had to find out where it was playing. I just saw this with my friend this afternoon and I was blown away. It's a little odd because this did not seem like a typical movie that I would love, but the performances were absolutely flawless and the writing was brilliant. My friend just kept saying how horrible it was, but I don't think some people are going to understand how great this movie really is or need to see it again to understand it. I was never really a fan of the Coen Brothers and their work, but the reason why I loved this movie is due to the fact that it points out the violence in the world and how far people will go to get money or drugs. No Country for Old Men is blunt and shows the ultimate evil of the world, but also the good as well.Llewelyn Moss is a cowboy who has just encountered quite a find, he stumbles across the desert to find several dead bodies and a truck load of heroin. When he walks a little farther, he finds another dead body, but there's something in a suit case that's a little bit more of what he could use, 2 million dollars! He's got everything in the clear, but he remembers one of the bodies that survived and needed water, so he goes back to help him out, big mistake. Now the serial killer who owned that money and drug load is after him. This serial killer, Anton Chigurh, is possibly the most cold blooded murderer and will not stop until he has his money and Llewelyn is dead. But also Sheriff Ed Tom Bell is trying to find Anton and find Llewelyn before it gets more deadly.No Country for Old Men is the most brilliantly written movie of the year. Javier Bardem, who plays Anton, will hopefully get an Oscar nomination for his performance. Javier pulled such a chilling performance, he was terrific and so frightening, I never really took a look at his talent until No Country for Old Men. Josh Brolin, it's truly amazing how far this man has come, from The Goonies to a gut-wrenching performance, he's great. Tommy Lee Jones also held his own very well and made the sheriff the most likable character and was the light in this dark movie. No Country for Old Men is a great movie, believe me, it's worth the watch, just take some time after the movie to think about it and what you have just seen, because for the first time, I can say that the Coen Brothers are really amazing.10/10
It's that time again, no, not for chocolate cake. No, not for another George W. joke. That's right, Saw 6! Wow, who would think that back in 2003, these movies would just keep going and going and going? Not just like every couple of years, but every year we have a Saw sequel. I'm not going to lie, it's not a strong series, but it always keeps me coming back for more. Yeah, I'm sick of torture porn, but I'm always curious where they're going to take the story next. We've had a slope in the Saw films, ever since 3, they've lost it. Saw 5 picked up a little, but was nothing special. I'm glad to say that Saw 6 was a major pick up. While I wish they would improve the quality of these films, you'd think with all the money they have they would, it's still a little too dingy for my tastes. But the story really took a good look at today's major problem with health care and the uninsured folks of America finally got what they've been craving, to see an insurance agent go through the jigsaw puzzle.Dan Erickson heads up the FBI's investigation into another jigsaw death, with fingerprints of Peter Strahm being found at the scene. He shares this information with Lieutenant Mark Hoffman and also reveals that Lindsey Perez, who was thought to have been killed by the exploding Billy doll, is alive and still on the case. Hoffman secretly meets with Jill Tuck, who hands him five envelopes from the box given to her by John Kramer's lawyer, and he takes control of a Jigsaw game the two have been planning. This game focuses on William Easton, an executive at a health insurance company. He and his subordinates decide whom to cover based strictly on probabilities of health or illness, and he turned down one of John's claims for this very reason. Flashbacks during the course of these tests reveal that William and John first met when Jill opened her drug clinic, and that John introduced Amanda Young to Jill as proof that his method of rehabilitation could really work. In addition, Hoffman and Amanda knew about each other's work as a Jigsaw apprentice, and John had already made advance plans for Jill to avoid suspicion after his death. Erickson and Perez continue their investigation and obtain the videotape from the death of Seth Baxter, causing Hoffman to grow increasingly nervous that his secret is about to be revealed. Costas Mandylor is the only thing that was really bad about the film, I wish this guy would get killed off because his acting is like making me be put through a jigsaw puzzle. He's just not right for the role nor does he have the acting chops for it. But I always do my best to give an honest review and Saw 6 isn't a bad movie. It's one of the better in the series. I do think that Jigsaw is one of the most clever serial killers that have been created for film. He's the new Hannibal Lecter, with more gore, but he always has us questioning our morals on those who really deserve life and take it for granted or those who maybe should just learn a good lesson in what they have done to others in life. I think Saw 6 is worth a matinée, it's good for the Halloween season. Plus it's just tradition if you wanna see the sequels, have fun and just go with it, this isn't Oscar worthy, it's just good for gore.6/10
Gnomes freak me out, I mean I know it sounds weird, but when I saw that there was a movie about animated gnomes reenacting Romeo and Juliet, I wanted to scream, it looked so scary. But my boyfriend and I were looking for a movie to watch and he was curious so I went into this viewing thinking it was going to be a bad movie, I was pleasantly surprised. Not only that, but it was very clever, while it could be a little over the top with the references to Shakespeare, I loved that it was introduced in such a way to the newer generation where technology is the thing and I'm not sure if they would be interested in Shakespeare. What a clever way of bringing it to kids in such an interesting way with great characters and a classic love story that is timeless. Also another thing that I loved was the introduction of Elton John's wonderful music to a new generation. Usually most animated films have their own original music, but Elton John's music is about love and what better story than Romeo and Juliet or should I say Gnomeo and Juliet.Mrs. Montague and Mr. Capulet are two elderly people who despise each other. When they leave the garden, objects come alive in both their gardens. The Montague garden is filled with blue garden gnomes, and the Capulet garden houses red garden gnomes. Later, both blue and red gnomes attend a lawnmower race. Representing the blues is Gnomeo and representing the reds is Tybalt . During the race, it looks like Gnomeo is winning; however, Tybalt cheats and wins the race, destroying Gnomeo's lawnmower. Later that night, Gnomeo and Benny, wanting revenge, infiltrate the red garden in disguise, intending to spray the reds' lawnmower with blue spray paint. Gnomeo ends up in a different garden. He bumps into Juliet, the daughter of Lord Redbrick. Juliet is looking for the last remaining orchid in the greenhouse, planning to use it to beautify the red garden. Gnomeo is intrigued by her, and reaches for the orchid as she is about to complete the garden, and they fall in love in the process. During this time, they discover they are from opposing clans. When they both go back to their gardens, Juliet tells her friend Nanette about her newfound love, much to her surprise, they are now star crossed lovers.You know the amazing thing about this film are the voices, some which you would never suspect to ever be in an animated film like Ozzy Osbourne and Jason Statham. The pink flamingo character, his back story was absolutely beautiful and again an animated film gets me a little teary eyed, for a piece of lawn ware! The animation is great, they even included the little cracks and age that go into a gnome. I also loved that on top of taking this story from Shakespeare they added their own little twists. I loved the lawnmower drag races, I thought it was so clever. This was a wonderful family film and I'm so happy that Shakespeare and Elton John could be introduced in such a way to a new generation. I think also I won't be afraid of gnomes any more, well, baby steps at least.8/10
LOL, that just summed up the whole movie, didn't it? So last night I was looking for a movie to watch and in my mom's collection I found "Air Force One" and I noticed that Harrison Ford was in it, so I figured I would give it a look. So I watched it and all I can say is American Propaganda much? Now I'm all American, don't get me wrong, I love my country, but this was a bit much and incredibly insulting. If we really had a president like James Marshall, played by Ford, I'd say America would be a very exciting place of nothing but none-stop action. The whole movie either took itself too seriously or then would get into an Arnold Schwartzenegger type of action movie where Ford would say that little one liner before the big climax. Oh, I loved the 25 endings of how they could keep the action going. Now I love action movies, don't get me wrong, but this story was just silly and unnecessary.President James Marshell is on the fight of stopping terrorism, Russian terrorism to be more specific. Well he boards his flight back to the states, Air Force One starts off well, but is quickly hijacked by Ivan Korshunov and his men, terrorists who want their General Radek released from prison in return for the passengers on board, which isn't good since I guess he was hard to capture and is a deadly terrorist. Ivan makes threats to kill of the passengers every half hour if the vice president does not meet his demands. But the President does not chicken out, he stays on board and will fight these terrorists and win back the plane.Air Force One is non-stop action with a mixture of the hit TV show West Wing. Like I said, I don't mind an action movie, sometimes I love the most cliché'd one's, but not when it comes to serious stuff like terrorism, but I think I'm speaking from a post 9/11 view, so maybe if I saw this movie a before then, I wouldn't have mind it that much, but even then, there were moments that were terribly over acted and for me, it just didn't work for having a president like James Marshall, please, I wish. I can't wait to see President Bush on top of a tanker sporting a look like Rambo, but I guess I shouldn't hold my breath.4/10
Thinking about classic film has always been a joy for me personally, especially the Universal Monster movies. You think about the time this was made, what that audience's reactions must've been like and instead of being bombed with over the top CGI effects, we get when men used to get their hands dirty making a film. With the classic Creature from the Black Lagoon, we had a man dressed in a suit who not only acted scary but could hold his breath for minutes under water and got some incredibly beautiful shots ever to be put on film. In the 1950's, it was a time to be obsessed with outer space creatures or things not of our world. Creature from the Black Lagoon was the last of the Universal Monster pictures to come out besides the sequels that followed. I think this was the underdog judging by the ratings here on IMDb because this is one terrific film with a tragic creature who just wanted to be lovedI mean can you blame him when he was checking Julie Adams out? But man against nature takes place again making you wonder what you should just leave be but letting your curiosity get the better of you.A geology expedition uncovers fossilized evidence from the Devonian period of a link between land and sea animals in the form of a skeletal hand with webbed fingers. Expedition leader Carl Maia visits his friend, Dr. David Reed, an ichthyologist who works at a marine biology institute. Reed persuades the institute's financial backer, Dr. Mark Williams, to fund a return expedition to the Amazon to look for the remainder of the skeleton. The expedition consists of Dr. Reed, Dr. Maia and Williams, as well as Reed's girlfriend, Kay Lawrence, and another scientist, Dr. Thompson. When they arrive at Dr. Maia's camp, they discover that his entire research team has been mysteriously killed while he was away. Lucas suggests it was done by a jaguar, but the others are unsure. The creature, curious upon seeing the expedition, investigates the camp site, but when its sudden appearance frightens the members, they attack it, and in response, the enraged creature kills them. Now the creature has it's eyes on the expedition, the crew members and the lovely girlfriend and to give them a true taste of what they've been looking for.I give this film a lot of credit for the make up and the under water shots. The creature suits were very effective and looked so flowing under water, it looked incredibly real. Much kudos to the actors who played the creature on land and under water. For the 1950's the under water shots are just amazing and look flawless. The actors did a good job, especially Richard Carlson playing Reed, a strong male lead and had such a presence on screen. Julie Adams was just beautiful and a wonderful character, despite being a female in distress, those were just the days, I get a sense of feistyness from her still and such intelligence. There were some good intense scenes, you really get the chills when you realize that the creature could be watching the crew any time and anywhere. Creature from the Black Lagoon was the end of an era and a good way to end it creating a great monster and gave us a reason to stay away from the water. Jaws may have taken the crown, but the Creature just gave him some good lessons.8/10
As you know from my reviews, I hate romantic comedies. Especially PG-13 one's that refuse to take any risks what-so-ever and are so family friendly that it becomes ridicules. But when I see stronger performers like Tom Cruise and Cameron Diaz, I have a little more faith. Now granted, not the best actors of our time, but I'd rather see them than Ashton Kutcher and Katherine Heigl. So I wanted to give this movie a very fair chance and over all as predictable and stupid as it was, I still had a good time watching it. There were some really stupid moments, but if something is funny, why not laugh? Tom Cruise is great at playing this smooth killer agent and Cameron Diaz was also good as the naive bystander who just happens to be in the wrong place at the wrong time when she meets him. What makes this film work in my opinion is the chemistry between Cruise and Diaz, they have worked together before in Vanilla Sky. I thought they were pretty decent together then and now they're showing that they can really work together well in a film. They made this stupid story work.Roy Miller and June Havens bump into each other twice at the airport. Completely taken with Miller, Havens goes to the restroom; and the remaining passengers all attack Roy, he calmly informs June that everyone on the plane is dead, including the pilots. Believing it a joke, Junr plays along until Roy enters the cockpit. Crashing into a corn field, Miller delivers Havens home after drugging her and explaining that other agents will visit and that they are planning to kill or imprison her. The next day June is picked up by a group of intelligence agents. Roy arrives and, through a long gunfight on the highway, kills several agents and saves June. Roy explains that June is safer with him; and she agrees to follow him as they go to pick up Simon Feck, a genius inventor who created a perpetual energy battery called the Zephyr. As it turns out that Roy is being framed by his former partner saying that he will sell the Zephyr to terrorists. But June must figure out who she can trust in this crazy situation.While the story is beyond predictable and we have to have a lot of suspension in disbelief with it as well, I think it's something you can enjoy if you just let go and have a good time. I hate saying this as you know how I feel about this genre of romantic comedy. But it's one of those movies you could get a very good chuckle out of. I loved the scene where Cameron is taken by the FBI for the first time and she gets into a nasty car chase as people are shooting at her and Cruise just lands on top of her car like it's something he does every day and just talks to her calmly. Also the scene between her, her ex boyfriend and Cruise in the diner was very funny. Like I said, it's the actors that make this lousy story work, even if the characters are under developed. I think this movie is an example of mindless fun, so just let go and have fun with this one.6/10
I wanted to see Hot Fuzz so badly in the theater, because Shaun of the Dead is one of my favorite movies and this looked just as funny. Unfortunately, most of my friends don't share the same sense of humor as I do with comedies. So I rented it yesterday, watched it last night, and I have to say that this movie delivered great laughs and had a great story. It was so funny to see action movies for what they really are, Simon and Nick were such a great duo, I love these guys, they have such a natural chemistry despite being total opposite characters. Hot Fuzz is such a great parody of every action movie you have ever seen.Nicholas Angel is a good policeman in London, his arrest record is through the roof, he has been injured on the job, and everyone likes him, well, almost everyone. The London police are a bit upset with how well he does and transfers him as a Sargent over to a small town, Sanford. He meets, Danny, another cop who is just completely clueless to anything around him. In fact the whole police squad is convinced that Sanford is the perfect town and nothing will never happen. Until murders start appearing, but they always look like an accident, but Nicholas is on the move with Danny to find out if Sanford is up to something bad.Hot Fuzz is a great comedy, I think I still like Shaun of the Dead a little better, but I don't know, I'm having a hard time deciding because this was a great movie too. I loved the Romeo and Juliet scene, how they were doing a homage to the remade version and their cheery version of "#1 Crush" by Garbage was just so out of the blue and idiotic, but so hilarious! I really enjoyed this movie and I would recommend it to anyone if you need a good laugh, Hot Fuzz will guarantee you that.8/10
OK, I just saw this Mystery Science Theater 3000 episode last night and the movie was The Incredibly Strange Creatures Who Stopped Living and Became Mixed-Up Zombies, quite a title, huh? It's a mouth full that's for sure. The strange thing is that as much as I love Mystery Science 3000, this movie was so bad, I don't think Mike and the robots could help it. This movie was so unbelievably bad,the story, the sound, the actors, the picture, the title, everything about this movie was so bad. I know there are some films that are so bad that it's good, but honestly The Incredibly Strange Creatures Who Stopped Living and Became Mixed-Up Zombies is not one of them.From what I gathered, there's a strange psychic, who has this insane(you don't know what kind of country she comes from) accent. She turns people into crazy zombies, something like that at least from the crummy make up they used. There is a group of teenagers and Jerry falls in love with one of the strippers from the carnival who is the psychic's sister and they hypnotize him into trying to kill his girlfriend, Angela.This is just an incredibly stupid movie, I just couldn't believe that something like this got green lighted. I understand it's low budget, but this was just so sad. The camera angles gave me such a headache, why did they zoom in and out, in and out, in and out, again and again and again? It wasn't really intense and it didn't work. Please, I am warning you to stay away from The Incredibly Strange Creatures Who Stopped Living and Became Mixed-Up Zombies, from the title, you should already have a good enough idea what kind of a film this is.1/10
Boy, the way some people are acting on the web, you would think that Pirates of the Caribbean: On Stranger Tides was the devil. I saw this movie opening day with pretty good expectations, because I love the Pirate movies, even if the third one is too complicated at times, I really enjoy these movies. Let's face it, we wouldn't have been brought back to the pirate genre if it wasn't for these movies. I agree that the plots should be more simple, but I don't mind a movie that challenges you along. I actually did love On Stranger Tides, even though it's not as good as the first one, I give much kudos for giving us something very fresh. Not to mention that it's shorter so I would think that more people would be pleased with that. But I think the cast still has it, Johnny Depp as Jack Sparrow is always such a pleasure to watch on screen. He and Penelope Cruz really lit up the screen and brought life into the series. This is a fun summer blockbuster with scary moments, funny characters and a swash buckling good time.Captain Jack Sparrow travels to London to locate a person who has been impersonating him. The imposter has been recruiting a crew to search for the legendary Fountain of Youth. Jack is brought before King George, who wants him to guide an expedition to the Fountain of Youth before the Spanish find it. Heading the expedition is Jack's old nemesis, Captain Hector Barbossa, now a privateer in service to the British Navy after having lost Jack's ship, the Black Pearl, as well as his leg. Jack escapes, and is found by his father, who warns Jack about the Fountain's tests. Jack's imposter is Angelica, his former lover and daughter of the ruthless pirate Blackbeard , who possesses supernatural powers and practices voodoo magic. Jack is forced to join Blackbeard's crew and to lead them to the Fountain.When I was a kid I absolutely adored the old movies, especially pirate movies like Captain Blood or Jason and the Argonauts. So these movies bring back the good ol' days and the magic of seeing these effects back on the big screen. While I do think that they are a little much for some children, I think any adult could get into these movies. Johnny Depp and Geoffrey Rush have great chemistry and bring the pirates to life, I could only imagine the type of fun they have during these films.I know that not everyone is a fan of pirates, I don't know if maybe it's due to the fact that the films were released so closely together that people got sick of it, I'm not sure. But I think if given the fair chance, you'll really enjoy this movie. This one has mermaids in it and the actual way that the myth is told, Disney had softened it up with The Little Mermaid and now brought it back to the truth. A warning in advance, that is a very scary scene I'm pretty sure most kids wouldn't be able to handle. But I thought it was extremely cool and very well done with the special effects. I'm also glad that they didn't go the safe route with the love story between Johnny and Penelope. However I really got bored easily with the Christian missionary and his love story with the mermaid was predictable and I think was their way of trying to replace Orlando Bloom and Kiera Knightly. But I had a good time watching this movie and I'm pretty sure if you're looking for a good time going into it, you will have fun. I'm honestly looking forward to the next pirates movie.8/10
My mom bought Red Heat on DVD a few weeks ago and she had mentioned how much she loved the movie to me and that I should check it out. I had an hour and a half to waste last night so I figured I would give the movie a shot and I'm wondering why my mom is so in love with this film like it was the best film of the 80's. But I guess everyone has their different tastes. See, I had absolutely no problem with Arnold, he did everything he was supposed to do, but it was his chemistry with Belushi, it didn't really work since Belushi is more annoying than funny. Belushi just ruined the chemistry they could have had to make this a memorable buddy cop film.Ivan is from Russia, he goes to Chicago, Illinois to find a villain who is slowly turning Russia into the next Miami. Well, Ivan must work with Art Ridzik, a cop from Chicago, when the villain gets away. Together they must find out how to capture him, but Art is going to have a hard time with the "iron jawed" soldier who likes to do things his own way. Not to mention Ivan with Art who has to stick by the American book of police brutality.Red Heat isn't a bad movie, it was cool seeing one of Gina Gershon's first roles in film, she actually did a decent job in Red Heat; it wasn't a surprise that she made it big afterwards. Arnold did a good job as well, I loved how monotone his lines were, he was great. But it was Belushi who just killed it for me, no offense to Jim, but he's not John, I recommend that he just stays away from comedies.5/10
My friend wanted to watch a movie and decided to rent Freedomland since I had seen all the recently released flicks, I wasn't too interested, but I figured to give the movie a chance, I'm usually up for anything. But I have to say that Freedomland couldn't decide on what story to stick upon, not to mention the "big surprise ending" wasn't that much of a surprise. The story is totally confusing and I don't see how this movie even has a 4.9 rating to be quite honest.It starts off with Julianne Moore going into the hospital with bloody hands, Samuel L. Jackson is a detective and finds out that her car has been stolen with her son in it! During a huge crisis in their bad neighborhood, murders happening left and right, and then trying to focus on Julianne's son, it was just too much, I'm letting you know right now.Freedomland could've had good potential, and I don't mind Julianne Moore, but she seemed so miscast in the film and actually seemed like an amateur. The only person worth watching was Samuel and he wasn't even that big of a deal, I'm warning you right now, you'll have to watch this movie a few times before you actually understand the plot, because I really didn't understand anything that happened in this film.2/10
When I first saw the trailer to What Happens in Vegas..., I thought it did look so predictable, but it had some really funny moments in the trailer, so I still wanted to see it. The only sad part, we have Cameron Diaz(who looks like a really good looking aging woman) and Ashton Kutcher(who still looks and acts like he's 12 years old), so we have two obnoxious actors that could have made a very disastrous film. But I saw What Happens in Vegas... yesterday and even though it was very predictable and stupid, it still had some very funny moments. I mean, Cameron and Ashton play two of the most unlikeable characters in movie history, who just bicker back and forth. The characters who win you over in the film are Rob Corddry and Lake Bell, who's fighting is actually very funny. But Aston and Cameron had some really good moments too.Joy just got dumped by her boyfriend in front of her friends, Jack just got fired by his own father, so what's next for them? VEGAS! They happen to meet when their rooms get mixed up and end up drinking together, having a ball in Vegas, and end up accidentally marrying each other. When they come too, they realize it was a mistake, but start bickering, Joy leaves a quarter at her slot machine and Jack puts it in and wins 3 million dollars! But when it comes to the annulment, for some strange and unbelievable reason, the judge sentences them to 6 months hard marriage and freezes the money. So these two who have nothing in common battle it out, until of course they fall for each other.What Happens in Vegas... is silly and predictable, but I do think the rating her on IMDb is a little harsh. I completely side with people who hate Cameron and Ashton, but their battle scenes together are pretty funny. Just I've seen so many worse films, this was just a fun romantic comedy to lighten the spirit of Iron Man and Speed Racer, not to mention the more action packed movies for the summer. So I'd say it's worth the look, but more of a rental vs. a high priced ticket, but just have fun, I think you'll get more than a few laughs.5/10
The original I Spit on Your Grave is known to be one of the most graphic and horrifying exploitation films of the 1970's, it's also famously known more so as Roger Ebert's most hated movie. I read his review, I think he was more upset with his movie experience even if he disliked the movie, I think the audience upset him more so. I saw the original film over a decade ago when I was in high school, a friend of mine who was my film buddy gave me the VHS and said I would have never seen anything like it and he was right, it was extremely brutal and unsettling. For some reason I bought the VHS a little later wanting to see it again and look to see what the message was or if the director was some kind of a sick pervert just looking to cash in on exploiting violence on women. I think the film is misunderstood, as hard as it is to watch the director had to make the rape scene brutal to help the outcome. The film is like a grindhouse movie though, the acting isn't that good and you can tell it's low budget. So when I heard that there was going to be a remake I was beyond excited because I figured that with better money equals a better movie most likely, so here's the story first.Jennifer Hills is going to the cabin in the woods down south to write her novel. On her way to the cabin she gets lost and pulls into a gas station where she encounters a group of men. She accidentally spills some fluid on the head of the group, Johnny, and hits the panic button on her car, scaring him. The other guys make fun of him for getting scared. Jennifer drives off into the gravelly road to the cabin. Nightfall comes and Jennifer begins to hear noises around the house. Her fears are realized when the gang from the gas station come to the cabin. After they mess with her, she is able to escape the cabin and runs off into the woods. She bumps into the sheriff, Storch, he brings Jennifer back to the cabin acting like he is going to help her. After an improper pat down, the boys come through the door and she realizes that they are all together on their plan to rape her. After they are done, she just gets up and walks out the cabin and into the woods. She is confronted by the gang again for more torture. She gets up again and walks out of the woods and onto a bridge. Just when Storch is going to shoot her, Jennifer jumps into the river. A month passes before Jennifer returns. She has survived in the woods for a month eating, as she explains later, bugs and other things and has been staying in a run-down house in the woods. She starts playing games with the group. Jennifer is Hell's most scorned woman and revenge is a dish best served cold.I have to say that I was a bit disappointed with this film, while the acting is certainly better and the revenge is more hard core, that's what makes it bad to me. In an era where we have the Saw and Hostel films it seemed like the movie more wanted to take advantage of just having some extreme gore vs. telling a story. The rape scene is done well without making that sound perverted, but it is very uncomfortable and just sad to watch and a lot more trimmed down from the original which can either make you grateful or resentful that you don't see as much brutality to justify the ending. I'm still on debate about that but as a woman I have to admit that it's a relief that like with Jennifer you just want to pass out with her and get past the rough parts. But then her revenge scenes, we go from a gruesome rape to comical revenge that is so beyond unrealistic. Understandably, they want to really give it to these creeps that raped her, but it's a little extreme where I thought the original was more realistic on how she lured the guys back and got her revenge. Also I appreciated in the original how we see Jennifer recover back, as hard to see her in such pain but again we needed to see it in order to understand and justify her revenge. Instead we are left with a million questions: How did she survive the jump off the bridge? How did she steal the boy's camera? Why would she come to the sheriff's family now that they've seen her and know her real name and he disappears with her? Wouldn't his family have a better lead on Jennifer that way? You're really telling me that if she survives that jump off the bridge the first thing she wants is revenge instead of getting out of that town or going to get help? Like I said in the original it's understood better seeing her recover.I Spit On Your Grave has some positive qualities about it, being in the acting and the rape scene being more painful to see how they torment this poor girl. But the ending just completely lost me and while the revenge is a lot more brutal and that's what these boys really deserved, it's hard to believe that 90 pound Sarah Butler can drag a full grown man across the woods and set up these traps. Fun to fantasize about but now what the original director was aiming for I think.5/10
When I first saw the trailer for Definitely, Maybe, it looked like an alright film that was probably just your average Valentine's Day love fest movie. But I got to see it for free, if the price is right, why not? So I watched it and actually I have to say that I was pleasantly surprised. Ryan Renolds, I love the guy in comedies, I haven't seen him in drama, so I was a little skeptical, but after seeing Definitely, Maybe, he pulled in a good performance that surprised me. The only thing I have to say I was a little disappointed in was Abigail Breslin, her performance in Little Miss Sunshine was wonderful and heart warming, Definitely, Maybe didn't bring in her best performance, who knows? It could've been the script or director, but she pulls a decent enough performance to where the movie works and puts a different twist on the average romantic comedy.Will Hayes has it all, a great paying job, a beautiful daughter, Maya, and a nice home, but unfortunately he is getting divorced. Maya comes over and wonders how he and her mom met. Will keeps saying no, but after tons of begging, he finally decides to go ahead and tell her. But he puts a little twist, since he went through a few women before her mom came along, he tells her the whole story, but through three women, Maya has to solve the love story mystery and find out who her mother is.Definitely, Maybe was different than the average romantic comedy and that's what I liked about it, it seemed also like it was just more real and not what women should have expectations about. It goes through the serious up's and down's of a relationship, the on and off's as well. The cast did a good job of pulling the film together and making the film very decent. I would recommend Definitely, Maybe, it's worth the watch and was a pleasant movie to see.7/10
I have to really admit that I underestimated this movie, I went in expecting to hate it. I had been hearing mixed reviews on this movie and to be honest I wasn't interested in it. I loved the original Karate Kid and was a bit ticked off that once again there was another remake. But I do love Jackie Chan and decided to try to go in with an open mind and ended up really liking this movie. Though I wished they did not claim it as a "remake", because this would have been great as a sequel. It's definitely a lot better than the other sequels that followed The Karate Kid. I didn't think that Jayden Smith would do that great of a job as his first lead role, but it turns out that he held his own in this movie. He is definitely his father's son, you saw a lot of Will Smith's mannerism's in Jayden. He's got a lot of charm to him and has a great amount of potential to be a very good actor one day. Jackie Chan as usual does a great job and always is a pleasure to watch as he does some incredible stunts that make you wonder how he did it. This was a good movie and was a great addition to the Karate Kid story.12-year-old Dre Parker and his mom arrive in Beijing from Detroit to start a new life. Dre develops a crush on a girl, Mei Ying, but Cheng her semi-boyfriend, attempts to keep them apart by beating Dre, and later harassing and humiliating him in and around school. During a particularly brutal beating by Cheng and his friends, the enigmatic maintenance man of Dre's building, Mr. Han, comes to Dre's aid, revealing himself as a kung fu master who adeptly dispatches Dre's tormentors. After Han mends Dre's injuries, they go to Cheng's teacher, Master Li, to attempt to make peace, but Li challenges Dre to a fight with Cheng. Han accepts, but insists the fight take place at an upcoming tournament, and that Li's students leave Dre alone until the tournament. Han begins training Dre, after several sessions, Dre is now able to display instinctively when prompted by Han's mock attacks. At the tournament, Dre is slow to achieve parity with his opponents, but soon begins to best them, and advances to the semifinals, as does Cheng, who finishes in the semi-finals with Dre and now they face each other once and for all to see who is the master of real kung fu.Now there are a couple of flaws with the film, it did bother me how Dre learned this advanced Kung Fu in just a month give or take. The bullies he faces are just brutal, I'm not talking like a little mean, these kids are just vicious with him and would give Mortal Kombat a run for it's money. So obviously when you see them in class, you assume they've been studying their whole lives and all of a sudden one teacher comes along and Dre magically knows all about Kung Fu in such a short time. In the original it was a little more believable because the kids learn from an American teacher who didn't understand the art of Karate and also in a strip mall, not that it makes a diff, but again that was a little more believable. Also, we learn in the middle of the story that Mr. Han's family was killed in a car accident, as sad as the scene was, it wasn't a needed part of the story. But the movie is beautifully shot showing some of the most gorgeous parts of China that look incredible. The fight scenes are done very well and even the acting was good. I enjoyed this movie and I'm glad that I gave it a chance. Like I said before, I think this should have just been a sequel instead of a remake, but it still worked very well. I do recommend it, Jackie Chan is always worth the watch for a karate, well actually a kung fu movie.7/10
When I saw the trailer for "88 Minutes", I was pretty excited, Al Pacino usually equals an awesome movie, we all know that. But I should've known when the audience was exiting the theater and were not too excited about this movie that there was something wrong. But I still wanted to see it, sometimes people just misjudge a film, so when I saw it tonite, oh, I'm just going to say it, the first half hour I knew who the killer was and I knew what was going to happen. I understand for a newer generation this is exciting and new, but for a girl who has seen so many thrillers, this is the 5th thriller where I was able to predict the entire outcome. Maybe I should start writing these scripts, get some money off them, but I can tell you that the line "Tic Toc, Doc" will annoy me for the rest of my life.Dr. Jack Gramm is a respected psychologist, he's put some famous serial killers away, including, Jon Forrester, who has been tried as guilty and is on death row. But when someone copies his killings, his sentence is questioned and Jack is now receiving calls saying that he has 88 minutes to live. So he has to find out what is going on and if there is a copy cat or an accomplice to Jon.I have to say is that if you seriously have seen all the thrillers, 88 Minutes will not surprise you, I mean it's watchable, due to Pacino, even though I was a little disappointed to never see his face change throughout the film. But it's the supporting cast and this pathetic attempt of a script that makes it unbelievable. The script could've been written by a high school student who has seen one too many thrillers because it's predictable and insulting. Would I recommend 88 Minutes? It's one of those you're going to have to see it for yourselves type of movie, because if you're not used to thrillers, you might like it. But if you're like me, and have seen the thrillers, this one will not leave you surprised.5/10
The Love Guru, when I saw the trailer, I wasn't exactly laughing, but it was Mike Myers, the clever man who has brought us Austin Powers and Wayne's World, I had to have hope. Well, Mike Myers, I have no choice, I really wanted to slap the heck out of him when I was watching this painful movie. Now I'm convinced that Mike must have some obsession with the penis, because there are so many penis jokes in this movie it just becomes painfully unfunny. Now there was a decent audience in the movie theater, like twenty something people, I did not hear one laugh, seriously, I even kept sighing, wondering when this movie was going to be over. Five people left early complaining, I wished I had joined them, but something inside me was just hoping that something would make me laugh, I was really pulling for Mike, but he has just made me so unhappy with this bad movie that was just his pathetic attempt of constantly reminding people of his good comedic days.Guru Pitka is a self help guru who is very successful, but he is ranked as the number two self help guru of the world. The only way he feels like he can be successful is to be on Oprah. So he has to save a man, Darran, on a loosing hockey team in Canada to get him back with his ex girlfriend who is with this "cocky" winning goalie, Jacques Grande. Guru also meets the owner of the team, Jane, who he just falls for, so in order for him to get famous, he has to get Darran back with his girl and the team will start winning.Yeah, I'm serious, that's the "plot", sad, isn't it? I just seriously cannot believe how low Mike Myers has sunk, the cast was bad and the story was just, I don't think it was even existent. Now, I hate it when people call movies racist without even thinking what the movie is supposed to be, but you know what?! I was friggin' offended by this movie, it was just plan sad, Mike Myers has lost his game and cannot admit it. He should have just stuck to the animated voices, because his characters now are just lame. There is nothing I could say more than please just stay away from this film, I know I said this before, but this is just a painful and unfunny movie. Good luck to Mike Myers, he'll need it big time after more critics review this bad movie.1/10
When I saw the trailer for The Spiderwick Chronicles, it looked a little scary for a children's movie, or at least for the family. But when I was working and I saw people leaving the theater, they were just excited and said it was scary, but it was a fun story. I finally saw The Spiderwick Chronicles on Sunday and I really liked it. I haven't read the novel, but to be honest because of this movie, I'm a little more interested, because this was a very fun fantasy story. But the movie itself was wonderful and the special effects were incredible, I couldn't believe how beautiful they made the creatures look. The story was charming and such a fun fairy tale that took me back to when I was a kid and just imagined myself in these stories, like Jumanaji or The Goonies, I think that's what The Spiderwick Chronicles will do for the new generation of children.Jared, Simon, and Mallory are moving into a new town and house with their divorced mom, Helen. Jared is having a hard time and wants to be back with his dad, but he gets distracted from these thoughts when he finds a book in the attic, a book written by his great great uncle, about the creatures he has found throughout the years, the relationship he also developed with them and how secretive it is. But a creature, an evil thing, Mulgarath, wishes to have the book and destroy all the creatures. Mulgarath will do anything to get this book, even sends his army of evil goblins to the protected house and Jared, Simon, and Mallory have to figure a way to protect the creatures.The Spiderwick Chronicles is a wonderful fairy tale that will charm it's way into your heart. Freddie Highmore is becoming quite the little actor, taking on two roles, opposite personalities, his talents are glowing in The Spiderwick Chronicles. Even though I'm still debating on how some things may not be totally suitable for children, I think it's still a great family film. The effects are magical and just beautiful, the story is very touching and I very much recommend this film, it's a good one.8/10
I just watched Antz and I have to say that over all I did enjoy it. I was looking forward to seeing this next animated flick that was on my list of "must-see's", it's one of those movies I always meant to get around too, but never did. When I saw that my friend had it, she was happy to lend it to me, and I couldn't wait to watch it. We have a great cast, including the coolest actor ever: Christopher Walken! Gosh, I could never say that enough.Antz is about a worker ant, Z, who has never had the chance to prove himself any more than an average working ant. When he meets Princess Bala, that all changes and he begs his soldier friend to trade places with him so he can see the princess again. But he gets caught in war and is the only survivor by major coincidences, when the royal family finds out that he met the princess before, they want to kill him, but he takes the princess out to find "insectopia" as his hostage for survival. But they must go back to stop the general from drowning the colony to build a new one.The only thing that disturbed me was there was a little bit of language that seemed just a little too much for kids who would be under the age of 8 or 9, not to mention the violence is a little mild, so I do warn parents that the PG rating isn't for nothing. But I thought while this isn't my new favorite animation movie by Dreamworks, it's still a good one.7/10
Well, at least my theater group did, lol. So of course I remember watching Grease since I was a little girl, while it was never my favorite musical or story, it does still hold a little special place in my heart since it's still a lot of fun to watch. I heard horrible things about Grease 2 and that's why I decided to never watch it, but my boyfriend said that it really wasn't all that bad and my friend agreed, so I decided to give it a shot, but I called them up and just laughed. First off the plot is totally stolen from the first one and it wasn't really clever, not to mention they just used the same characters, but with different names and actors. Tell me, how did the Pink Ladies and T-Birds continue years on after the former gangs left? Not to mention the creator face motor cycle enemy, gee, what a striking resemblance to the guys in the first film as well as these T-Birds were just stupid and ridiculous.Another year at Rydell and the music and dancing hasn't stopped. But when a new student who is Sandy's cousin comes into the scene, he is love struck by a pink lady, Stephanie. But she must stick to the code where only Pink Ladies must stick with the T-Birds, so the new student, decides to train as a T-Bird to win her heart. So he dresses up as a rebel motor cycle bandit who can ride well and defeat the evil bikers from easily kicking the T-Bird's butts. But will he tell Stephanie who he really is or will she find out on her own? Well, find out for yourself.Grease 2 is like a silly TV show of some sort that didn't work. The gang didn't click as well as the first Grease did, not to mention Frenchy coming back was a bit silly and unbelievable, because I thought that she graduated from Rydell, but apparently she didn't. The songs were not really that catchy; I'm glad that Michelle was able to bounce back so fast, but that's probably because she was the only one with talent in this silly little sequel, I wouldn't really recommend this film, other than if you are curious, but I warned you, this is just a pathetic attempt at more money from the famous musical.2/10
Every once in a while, I love to have a "non-thinking" movie, a comedy that doesn't require for me to look deeper into the plot or anything. I figured since I saw the first Deuce Bigalow movie, I would give the sequel a shot. I had heard bad things about it, but I figured it might not be that bad. I watched it this afternoon, actually I was laughing throughout the beginning. I'm very serious, I was starting to think that people were just hating the film because they didn't like Rob or something, but then the film took a big turn. It turned into really immature and lame 7th grade jokes once again like the first one. Fart jokes? I mean, seriously? How much have we grown up? Not to mention that the ending just totally fell flat and Rob did a terrible job of acting. The story was also a bit over used and just a rip off of the first Deuce Bigalow film.Deuce goes to Amsterdam to find his old friend, T.J. His wife is dead, and for some reason he is still carrying her prosthetic leg with him introducing it. T.J. asks Deuce to join the gigolo's again and to go undercover now that they are being murdered. T.J. is mistaken for the killer and that he's also gay, so Deuce is going undercover to prove T.J.'s innocence. But he ends up finding another lady with a bit of a problem with Obsessive Compulsive Disorder, but that doesn't stop him from falling in love with her. But he has to make sure that he finds this killer before he ends up being murdered too.Deuce Bigalow: European Gigolo was just a silly attempt at trying to make some money, because while there were still a couple laughs here and there, this still was a lame film. A lot of the jokes were over used and incredibly immature. I wouldn't recommend this movie for someone who is over 12 years old, just because that's the kind of humor that's in it. Another funny thing is that I know that this was just a movie, but I'm American, and I was just offended for the way they handled the Europeans and how they are. But I guess I've just grown past this humor, I'm sorry, I just couldn't find this film entertaining.2/10
A little over a month ago, I was watching one of the movie channels on TV and Juno's premier was being shown and I recognized a few actors, obviously Jennifer Garner, Jason Bateman, and Ellen Page who made an incredible performance in 2005's Hard Candy. They started talking about Juno and what it was about and I just had to see this movie. It seemed like a great movie that was real and funny, just like last year's big hit Little Miss Sunshine. Finally after they finally released Juno in my town, I saw it a couple days ago and Juno truly did live up to my expectations, it's a very good film. Being Diablo Cody's first script, this was a great story, despite how common it is in real life, it shows the anxiety of being a pregnant teenager. Diablo shows this girl who isn't sure of herself now having to protect a human life growing inside her.Juno is a 16 year old girl in high school, kind of a rebel who's in a band, she's just found out that she's pregnant. Paulie, her best guy friend, is the father, he wants to be with her and take care of her and the baby, but she just plays him off and says she'll just abort the baby. But when she goes to the clinic, she realizes something, maybe she could do something better, by giving the baby to a loving couple who will take care of it. She meets Venessa and Mark Loring, very rich, very put together, and offers them the baby pretty much immediately. But when she learns that Mark still has to grow up and Venessa is just dying to be a mom no matter what, she has a big decision to make while still trying to figure out what is love and who she is.Juno is a great movie to start off 2008, it's cute, funny, heart warming, and real. Ellen Page was so terrific, I just know she's going to make it, I've been rooting for her, and I think Juno is the right kick off for her. Her performance as Juno was fantastic, she was so believable and you couldn't help but feel for her and feel bad for her on what she was going through in her high school. Ellen Page and Michael Cera are two young actors are shinning in today's films. Jennifer Garner, in my opinion, gives her best performance to date, she was so pretty and a wonderful character that had so much love to give. I highly recommend Juno, it's a well put together film that has a terrific story and was just a pleasure to watch.9/10
The other day when I was renting movies I passed this one called Quiz Show, never heard of it, wasn't too sure if it would be good or not, so I figured I would just wait and check it out on IMDb. When I saw the rating I was very impressed, not to mention how this was nominated for best picture of '94, considering it was up against: Forrest Gump, Pulp Fiction, and Shawshank Redemption, it didn't really stand a chance. But I rented this movie and I'm convinced that 1994 had to be one of the best years for films. Quiz Show is an incredibly impressive film by Robert Redford, which I didn't even realize that this guy could direct! The story is just a perfect one for any type of a debate conversation on what is right and what is wrong.21 is a popular TV quiz show in the 50's where they ask very hard questions and the guests win lots of money, Herb Stempel has been the reigning champion for weeks. But he's not exactly what you would call the TV hunk, he's got the "radio face". Charles Van Doren is a huge fan of quiz shows, so he auditions, and when the executives see him, they go crazy over him, he's handsome, he's smart, he's charismatic, and his family is famous. They tell Herb to "dive down" and get a wrong answer so that Charles can take over as the champion. Everything seems to go smoothly, that is until Harvard grad government agent Dick Goodwin is convinced that there's something wrong. He is determined to prove that the show is rigged and that 21 is ripping of America's intellects.Quiz Show is a great film, the acting, the picture, the editing, everything about this film is pretty much flawless. I couldn't believe that this film is not anywhere near the top 250, I don't see any problems with the film. But I know every film has a hater or two. But for me the film, acting wise, the film went to Ralph Fiennes, he did an incredible performance and was so touching during his statement to the jury. I just would highly recommend this film to anyone, this is a great film and Robert Redford did a terrific job.10/10
I don't know why, from the trailer I didn't really want to see The Rocker, it looked like another silly teenage comedy, but I had the opportunity to see it for free and decided to go ahead and give it a fair chance. So I saw it yesterday and honestly, I thought it was a pretty decent comedy, much better than I expected. But it fell flat and became a predictable movie, I don't mind them every once in a while, but this story could have had a better ending that surprised us all. I love Rainn Wilson, ever since I saw him way back in House of 1000 Corpses, I just thought something strange stood out about this guy, he eventually became bigger in the hit TV show The Office. He's now the new male lead in a comedy, now he's decent, he did make me laugh like crazy in a lot of his scenes, but I think he could have held his own a little better, he's good, but he's not great as a leading comedic actor.He plays Fish, a drummer for a rock band that later goes platinum after kicking him out. His life as an adult isn't so great, the band is doing very well even 20 years later. Fish moves in with his sister, his nephew asks him to play drums in his band when their drummer can't play with them any more, but later Fish gets in trouble with his sister and can't live with her any more. But his nephew sets up a way through the internet and camera's, but when Fish doesn't know the camera is filming him naked, a new internet era is born of the Naked Drummer. ADD, the band he's playing with his nephew, becomes huge and fame takes a tole on the kids as well as Fish's old age.Now over all, I did like The Rocker, I think it's worth a matinée price, it's a fun and silly comedy that gives you a few good laughs. Mainly by Rainn Wilson, I couldn't help but laugh hysterically when he finds out the band is kicking him out and he jumps on the van that they're driving away in and is holding on by his drum sticks, sounds stupid, but when you see the look on his face, it reminds you of The Terminator 2: Judgement Day with the T-1000. Like I said, the ending flops a bit though, I think they could have done something different, but it's a good movie for laughs. Like I said if you want to see it in the theater, I'd recommend the matinée, but otherwise it's just a rental.6/10
A few months ago while I was going through the message boards on IMDb, someone was talking about disturbing films and one that seemed to come up the most was a film called Irreversible. This film has come up in discussion so many times when the subject of disturbing film is brought to attention. When I think I've seen the worst of the worst, I figured I should see what Irreversible had to offer. I have to admit after watching this movie, it stayed with me. Definitely not being the easiest movie to watch, Irreversible has a style to it and a very disturbing story that can haunt many for different reasons. Wither it's the extreme violence, the cursing, the drugs or the 9 minute rape scene, Gasper Noe takes you into this very dark world and doesn't let you go.The beginning of Irreversible (that is, the chronological end of the story) features two men going to a homosexual S&M nightclub called "The Rectum." Minutes earlier, the men named Marcus and Pierre, are escorted out of that nightclub by the police. Marcus is on a stretcher, apparently injured, and Pierre is in handcuffs. Earlier that evening, Marcus and Pierre arrived at the club in a frantic search for somebody nicknamed le Tenia. Marcus finds the man believed to be le Tenia and attacks him. The man pins down Marcus, then snaps his arm. Pierre rescues Marcus by bludgeoning the attacker's face using a fire extinguisher, brutally and fatally crushing the man's skull after repeated blows. During the onslaught, the real le Tenia is seen to be amused by the situation. It is revealed that le Tenia raped Marcus's girlfriend Alex, and placed her in a coma by beating her severely.Filmed backwards I thought was extremely brilliant, at least the way I interpret it. We see EXTREME violence and sexuality in the beginning, pretty much being up front that this movie is going to be very uncomfortable and not a movie for all. Gasper Noe is basically telling the audience "what you see is what you get", not trying to pull you into something you might not want to be apart of. It also shows that these two men who kill this man violently are possibly the bad guys? No, it turns out as we discover that a woman they both love has been brutally raped and beaten. Then when we meet her, she's not just some woman who is the girlfriend of one of men trying to get revenge or a girl at a party dressed in a skimpy outfit, this is a woman who is walking out of a party trying to get home and comes across the "wrong place, wrong time" situation. The rape scene, reason being that it's so different than any other rape scene you might have viewed in another film, it's long, one angle and the words that come out of the rapist's mouth are just awful. It's the most realistic rape scene I've viewed and I have to warn you that please, if you have a weak stomach or have had that horrific experience, this is not a movie for you.Irreversible is definitely violent, there is a scene that most people debate which is more disturbing, the rape or the fire extinguisher. The fire extinguisher is at the beginning of the film and is definitely realistic and beyond disturbing, because you see everything. Also the hatred behind the killer is just there, he has no remorse for what he is doing. Then when we find out later that he kills the wrong guy, it just makes it that more brutal. Gasper Noe also films the movie in the worst way in the beginning making the audience sick with his spinning camera and disturbing noises. He doesn't lie to you, he knows this film is going to be one of the most frightening pieces of work you'll see, and he doesn't want you comfortable with it. Irreversible is one of the hardest films for me to recommend because it just depends on what kind of a viewer you are. If you can handle extreme violence, sexuality and language, you could get through this. I watched A Clockwork Orange when I was a teenager and hated it because I felt that Kubrick was trying to make me sympathize with Alex, before watching Irreversible, I re-watched A Clockwork Orange and realized I missed the whole message of the film. It wasn't about Alex, but our society and I have the greatest admiration for the film now. Irreversible shows how we can go from hating someone to understanding their position to rooting for them. Are we the animals? Irreversible will have you thinking for days, this is a film I will never forget.10/10
So, now we've got to be done, every classic slasher movie has been remade: Halloween, Friday the 13th, The Texas Chainsaw Massacre, Last House on the Left, The Hills Have Eyes you get the idea. Now we have Nightmare on Elm Street. Now I don't want you to get the wrong idea, I actually don't mind remakes for the most part. Like a remake of a song, I want a different twist. Yeah, Hollywood has lost it's originality, but that's bound to happen as the years go on. Plus now that it's been over 20 years since the original Nightmare, it wouldn't hurt for a reboot and to re-introduce the story to the new generation who didn't have the pleasure of knowing the classic. Well, unfortunately, with all the potential that this Nightmare could have had, it fell flat playing one note over and over again. We are introduced to several teenagers, don't know who they are really, it starts off immediately with them having nightmares, getting killed and I really didn't care, you know why? Because we don't know them! The original the group felt like a tight clan that really looked out for each other, this one I just didn't care about them. Also the girl who played Nancy, Rooney Mara has one of the dullest performances of the year, where I didn't understand why a guy would have a crush on her or why anyone would want to be her friend. The film takes itself way too seriously and that was one of the main problems with the film.While at a local diner Dean Russell falls asleep at the table and meets a man covered in burn scars, wearing a red and green sweater and a clawed glove on his hand. The burned man cuts Dean's throat in the dream, but in reality it appears that Dean is cutting his own throat. Kris, his girlfriend, begins to dream about the burned man herself and refuses to go to sleep for fear that she will die in her dreams. Kris meets the burned man in her dreams and is murdered. With her friends dying, a young girl named Nancy begins to question what everyone's connection is to each other, given that none of them can remember each other before their teenage years. Eventually, Nancy and her friend Quentin Smith discover that all of them, including more children, attended the same preschool together. Nancy and Quentin, who both begin sporadically dreaming while they are awake as a result of insomnia, decide to go to the preschool and learn what they can about Krueger and how to stop him before it's too late for them too.One thing I did like about the film was the little twist of not knowing for a little while if Freddy Krueger was a bad guy or not. But even Freddy was not scary to me, his make up looked like a lion that had down syndrome and I couldn't take it seriously. I couldn't take his dialog seriously and nothing about this film was scary, at least to me. It fell into the typical cliché JUMP scenes where they add a loud noise just for the sake of it. This film plays like kid has nightmares, kid dies, kid has nightmares, kid dies, and you get the idea. Also it was extremely unbelievable how the kids pretty much accept that they're having the same nightmares where a guy is trying to kill them and if they die in their dreams, they die for real. They accept it like they just found an extra 20 dollars in their pockets, I'm sorry, but I would question my sanity first before just saying "oh, hey, a guy will kill me in my dreams and I'll die for real". Nightmare had a ton of potential to be a great remake, the concept is terrifying, so if given a fair chance, this could have been scary and an awesome reboot, but instead falls flat with a lousy script, horrible acting, bad effects, a boring cast and a lame atmosphere. I'd say skip this lame remake, just stick with the original.2/10
My friend and I really did want to see The Guardian when it was released in the theater, but we never got the chance or had the money when we had the opportunity. I just rented it and we watched it together last night and I fell asleep 3 times! I thought maybe it was just me, but even my friend said that she thought it was a little dull. Then we asked our other friend what he thought and he just sighed and said that he was with me on the sleeping. The story was just so dull and predictable, Ashton and Kevin, I'm so sorry to say this, but they're not strong enough leading men to keep a story moving.So as you can figure pretty much from the trailer, Kevin is traumatized from a rescue mission that was fatal to his team and victims, Ashton comes into the camp to train to be a rescuer, but he's a punk without a cause, until he and Kevin discover how much they have in common. But Kevin sticks with Ashton and pulls him through the camp, watch An Officer and a Gentlemen for the sub plot, and of course Ashton makes it through camp and becomes a rescuer, but the task becomes more difficult when Kevin can't face his inner demons.The story is so incredibly predictable, like I said just watch An Officer and a Gentleman, that's the plot over all. Kevin's character I just felt wasn't that sympathetic, I don't know if it was just the writing or the way it was presented, but I just wouldn't recommend this movie, it was too long and too predictable. Why this movie has a decent rating? I'm still not sure, but believe me, you'll fall asleep a few times trying to get through this movie.3/10
I do have a question, what ever happened to the slow walking lame Egyptian mummies? I mean, as silly as they are, they're still entertaining. Now we have The Mummy: Tomb of the Dragon Emperor, I loved The Mummy, The Mummy Returns, it was watchable, but this one was just an excuse to make some quick cash. I was actually looking forward to seeing this movie, I got the opportunity to see it today, I was excited, but unfortunately, we now have Chinese mummies that can do anything that will fit into the CGI budget. Another disappointment was the recasting of Evelyn, I know Rachel Weisz turned this script down, but she was seriously needed, Maria Bella, who is a decent actress, actually made Evie a very flat character and not as enjoyable. Then not only that, but we have Brendan and Maria who do look incredibly good for their age, they have a 20 year old son in the movie? This story was a waste of time and money.The Emperor of China wanted to rule the entire world, but when a Chinese witch curses him and his army, he is put to sleep for thousands of years. Rick and Evie are now retired and have lost the spark in their relationship, but when they are asked to go to Shanghai to deliver a small little ball, they bump into their son who has discovered the Emperor. Rick and Evie are forced to wake the mummy by his followers. Now the whole family with Jonathan and the protector who was supposed to keep the emperor from rising, must destroy the Emperor or he will take over the entire world.The Mummy: Tomb of the Dragon Emperor has some OK moments, I loved the beginning story and the ending battle scene is held pretty strong, it's worth the look for that, but I would say this is more of a rental. It's just a sad disappointment, considering how much better it could have been. The one liners were too cheesy and we have three headed dragons, karate kicking abdominal snow men, why not just go all the way and have leprechauns with machine guns? That's how out of control the CGI effects are. Luke Ford makes Brandon Fraiser look like Marlon Brando with his acting and the love story between him and the protector girl was useless. Like I said, wait for the rental, not the worst movie of this year, but a huge let down for sure.5/10
There is a reason I'm not in the stock market, I'm not sure why some movies continue to get sequels, I never figured they would try to turn Ice Age into a franchise of some sort. The first Ice Age was very cute, nothing special, but enjoyable to watch. The sequels are pretty decent over all, but I never found myself watching them twice. But I guess they were popular enough to spawn another sequel called Continental Drift. So in our quest for a movie weekend, my fiancé and I decided to give this movie a fair chance on it's opening weekend. Over all, it was pretty cute and had it's share of laughs. I do think this was a pick up from the last sequel, but again, it was a movie worthy of a straight to DVD release. The story is predictable and some of the actor's voices just don't work with the characters. However with some new additional characters that were actually pretty funny, I don't find myself unsatisfied with Continental Drift.Scrat's hunt for acorns triggers the break-up of the Pangaea landmass into the continents as we know them today. In the meantime, Manny and his wife Ellie deal with their teenage daughter Peaches. Sid's family, appear to have been looking for him, but it is revealed that they only want to leave Sid's annoying Granny with him and leave him again. When Manny catches Peaches hanging with friends after he told her not to, Manny and Peaches have a falling out. Soon after, the breakup of the continent separates Manny from his family. Manny gets stuck on a floating ice raft with Sid, Diego and Granny. A large moving landmass drives Ellie, Peaches, and a herd of other animals towards a land bridge, where Manny had told them to go. Manny promises to come back to them, but may have some trouble getting back.This was a crazed celebrity fest of voices: Nick Frost, Queen Latifah, Denis Leary, John Leguizamo, Wanda Sykes, Simon Pegg, Jennifer Lopez, Ray Romano, Seann William Scott, the list goes on. Makes you really wonder where the budgets for these films go when you got big names. A little advice to Hollywood when it comes to animated films: use the money budget towards the script and animation, not the voices. Sometimes they work, sometimes they don't. I didn't respond too well to hearing Wanda's screeching voice for 80% of the film. Did it really make a difference to have Jennifer Lopez's voice in the movie? But given credit where it's due, I did like the new character/villain, Captain Gutt and his pirates. Simon Pegg and Nick Frost do add a lot of comedy to the movie, because of their natural chemistry, it just works. The animation is very nice, especially during the storm scenes.Over all, I did like the movie, it wasn't a waste of time and I got a few laughs out of it. I think the heart of the film goes to Scrat, no matter how many times I see him chasing after those acorns, I don't think I could ever get sick of it. I also liked how the film took a little clever twist with telling the story of the Odyssey so the kids would not only have a good time, but to learn a great story of adventure. But it's still only worth the rental, at most a matinée. I think the kids will definitely get a kick out of it, but that's about it. I don't know if this will be the last Ice Age, but as long as Hollywood wants it's money and this movie makes number one at the box office, I think we'll probably have another one.6/10
I was kinda nervous about seeing Talladega Nights: The Ballad of Ricky Bobby, because I like Will Ferrel, but him solo in a comedy? Sometimes it works and sometimes it doesn't. But Talladega Nights: The Ballad of Ricky Bobby actually proved itself to be a pretty decent comedy that I honestly have to admit that I was laughing pretty badly at, especially at the cougar scene! But the movie just worked so well and I was very impressed, the cast looked like they had so much fun working on this film together.Ricky Bobby has had one line stuck in his head by his estranged father "If you're not first, you're last", he uses that line to get through what he does best, racing cars! Ricky has become the most famous car racer in the world, makes millions of dollars, has great friends, and the hottest wife a guy could ask for. But he's starting to loose it when a French man threatens to take away his title and his best friend wants the title as well along with his wife. Ricky's father comes back to teach Ricky the true meaning of racing and to win the championship race! Talladega Nights: The Ballad of Ricky Bobby is really a funny movie that I was so surprised that I was laughing at Will so much. But it really was Coleman who stole the show, he just killed me as Ricky's dad, he was so dirty and rude, but for some odd reason you want to invite him to chill at your house or maybe it's because he reminds me of my grandfather. :D Scary, isn't it? But seriously, I would recommend Talladega Nights: The Ballad of Ricky Bobby, I think you will have a good time watching it.7/10
Back in the day, talking about the 1940's kind of day, we had a good release of the Universal horror monster collection, from Dracula to Frankenstein, from The Invisible Man to the Mummy and from the creature from the black lagoon to the Wolf Man, these movies were made to frighten people out of their wits. A lot of these movies have been remade and I have to admit that when I saw the trailer for The Wolf Man, I was excited. I loved the original Wolf Man, it's just a terrific and very suspenseful film that still holds up well to this day. But I thought that it wouldn't hurt to have it updated and revamped as most werewolf movies are a big joke today, especially with shudder Twilight: Full Moon, may God help us all. But I know that Benicio Del Toro was really looking forward to doing this movie as Lon Chaney is one of his favorite actors and is a major inspiration, so naturally he wanted to be The Wolf Man. But does he fall in the same line as Lon? I don't think so, he's good but doesn't have the same charisma to carry the story well.In 1891, Lawrence Talbot reunites with his father following the disappearance of his brother. Lawrence Talbot's childhood ended the night his mother died. After he left the sleepy Victorian hamlet of Blackmoor, he spent decades recovering and trying to forget. But when his brother's fiancée, Gwen Conliffe, tracks him down to help find her missing love, Talbot returns home to join the search. He learns that something has been killing the villagers, and that a Scotland Yard inspector named Aberline has come to investigate. As he pieces together the puzzle, he hears of an ancient curse that turns the afflicted into werewolves when the moon is full. Talbot must destroy the vicious creature in the woods surrounding Blackmoor to end the killings and protect the woman he has grown to love.While the film's atmopshere is incredible, this will be a great Halloween film to show in the future, the film unfortunately let me down over all with the characters. I think it depended too much on the CGI and also that the audience has seen the original Wolf Man. The thing about a remake is that I don't want to see the same thing as the original, I want to see something with a different twist of events. While the story does have it's own take, it still doesn't work as well. But there are some great things about this movie, like the kill scenes that just had me cringing and almost jumping out of my seat. When the film gets going, it does not let go and continues in the non stop scares. Also Anthony Hopkins always delivers a great performance, he just has the perfect grin to keep himself going as the big bad tough guy of the film and was very intense. Emily Blunt was good, but unlike the original story, she's not really needed for this one. Benicio Del Toro is good, but didn't really excite me like I thought he would. But still I think the film was pretty good in setting it's atmosphere and mood, the effects were good over all and the death scenes make it all worth the watch. As a film that stands on it's own, it's good, as it stands to the original, I think I would be just fine with the 1941 version and be happy with that story, even if it is a little dated.6/10
I was so hesitant to see The Pursuit of Happiness for one reason, this movie looked like an incredible tear jerker, just from the trailer I was nearly crying. But my friend and I had been hearing incredible reviews about this movie, so we decided to suck it up and see the movie today and we were just blown away by how amazing Will Smith's performance was. He and his son were just so incredibly heart warming and really reminded you of the important things in life. I was so touched by Chris's story, he was so determined, this movie makes you wanna go out and achieve your dreams and to never let anyone tell you what is right and what is wrong, what you can and cannot do.Chris Gardner is a struggling salesmen trying just to make the rent, buy food, and take the best care of his son that he possibly can. When his wife leaves him and his son to go get a better life, Chris is left on his own, but he wins an internship at a stocks broker company that is very competitive. Against incredible odds, he just pulls through the ultimate lows of life and keeps his head up with his son by his side. They become homeless, living in hotels, homeless shelters, and even a cruddy subway bathroom! But Chris holds on to his ultimate dream of being happy and giving him and his son the life they truly deserve.This movie in every way possible is perfect, it was so brilliantly made and just so inspiring. Will Smith better be nominated for an Oscar next month! This was an incredible performance and his son was just so cute, I guess talent really does run in his family. :) I would highly recommend The Pursuit of Happiness this year! It was a beautiful film that makes you feel like you can achieve anything you truly put you heart too, I just wish I brought more tissues! 10/10
I'm a National Geographic and Discovery Channel addict, I just love watching documentaries about our great planet, Earth. Not all of us get to travel to different places around the world to see all these amazing creatures and cultures. So when I saw the cover for Disney's Earth, I didn't hesitate to put the movie in the Blu Ray player and watch it. You think about these shots that the photographers get and how long it must've taken to get them and you really appreciate all the beauty they captured. Some animals you've heard of and some you haven't. The world is a huge place and we can't see everything it has to offer with these amazing animals and Earth takes you on a journey to show you what their lives are like.Earth takes a view on the journeys from the North Pole to the South Pole, revealing how plants and animals respond to the power of the sun and the changing seasons. The film focuses on three particular species, the polar bear, African bush elephant and humpback whale. Starting in the high Arctic in January, as the darkness of winter gives way to the sun, a mother polar bear is shown emerging from her den with two new cubs. She needs food and must lead her cubs to her hunting ground on the sea ice before it begins to break up. African bush elephants are filmed from the air as they negotiate a dust storm in the Kalahari Desert. A humpback whale mother and calf are filmed from the air and underwater at their breeding grounds in the shallow seas of the tropics. There is nothing here for the mother to eat, so she must guide her calf on a 4,000-mile journey south to the rich feeding grounds near Antarctica, the longest migration of any marine mammal.Our planet is incredible, it's really amazing when you think about how some places are extremely hot, some are unbearably cold. Some places are dry, some are wet. But everywhere you go, there is some form of life that thrives in the environment. Earth shows you these amazing animals and what it takes to survive. It's also in some ways a very sad tale, we know how much the planet is suffering right now due to the global warming. I knew seeing the polar bears would be hard as we find out that more of the species are becoming extinct due to drowning and getting lost at sea. It's also a hard ship to see baby animals being hunted by other animals for food. It's part of the circle of life, but still sad to see.The polar bears is the most touching story about the mother bear and her cubs waiting for their father to come home with food. The father is trying his best to protect his family, but can't find any food anywhere. The humpback whales segment is absolutely beautiful, seeing these giant mammals swim is a glorious sight. You think about the traveling they must endure in order to survive is exhausting but shows the greatness of what they are willing to do. I also loved seeing the birds in South America, so unique looking and very entertaining to see their mating dances. Earth is a great documentary that everyone should see, the world is so big, it's hard to see everything it has to offer. Earth gives you the opportunity to see just a small fraction of what beauty is around the world.10/10
I always thought that such films that were named like Boyz N the Hood, Hustle and Flow, and Menace 2 Society, normally titles like that are not promising to a good movie. But I have seen Hustle and Flow and Menace 2 Society which were both really good movies surprisingly and one movie that everyone recommends to me was Boyz N the Hood and just praising it, so I finally sat down and watched it the other day and this movie just got to me. This is one of the better acted movies with stories of the ghetto and the thing that I loved about this film was that it had a good strong positive message to never let go of your dreams and don't let stupid people get you down. I was really impressed mainly with the performances in this movie, who didn't have a great performance in this movie? But I think it was Lawerence Fishbourne and Cuba Gooding, Jr. that really steal the show and tell the story so well.Tre is having a hard time in the city where he and his mother live, he gets in trouble at school and she sends him to live with his dad, Furious Styles for the summer to teach him how to be a man. Tre grows up, comes back for a summer, and lives with his dad, seeing old friends and reconnecting with an old flame, one problem, this is all happening in South Central where the shootings are frequent, drugs are being done 24/7, and you have a 98% chance of being a looser that will probably die. He and his two best friends learn how to deal with the possibility of being killed or doing something they can never take back.Boyz N the Hood is a powerful movie that is very impressive, especially for a film that was made under a seven million dollar budget. I would recommend this movie, it is a bit violent and the swearing is persistent, but this is a film about the ghetto. But I felt like this film had a positive message that really made me smile and just kept rooting for these poor boys who had no say in their lives and just had to do the best the could to make it out of these deadly situations where they could die before even making it into an adult life. I really liked Boyz N the Hood, it's a good strong movie that will remind you to hold onto your dreams and don't let anyone get you down.8/10
God, I am so glad I let my guard down for this movie, when I saw the poster for Little Miss Sunshine at the movie theater, it seemed like a lame movie and when I saw the excellent rating here on IMDb, I figured it was one of those movies that only the artsy people got because I hadn't seen any of the trailers for Little Miss Sunshine, so I didn't want to bother. But when I was renting movies I guess I could just give the movie a chance, like I said, it was such a good rating on IMDb, for the most part, some of the movies on the top 250 are pretty good.Little Miss Sunshine is about this family who has just brought their suicidal relative to live with them and when the little girl, Olive, wins by default to be in the Little Miss Sunshine contest in California, the 9-step obsessed father, the nice and honest mom, the silent son, the perverted grandpa, the hard working little girl, and the suicidal man all take a bus cross country to get to this pageant. But of course there are always... well... little bumps along the way.Little Miss Sunshine was such a terrific movie because it wasn't just the acting, but it seemed like the real American family that everyone could relate to in one way or another. I remember going on vacation with my family when we would go to visit my grandpa, who was also a pervert, and the craziness that would ensue on the way there. But Steve said it all "The suffering years turn out to be the best years of your life, because they make you who you are".10/10
I decided to get into the Amityville Horror sequels, just for fun. I was a little worried though when I saw that this sequel had such a low rating. Despite the fact that it was cheesy and there was a very sick situation, I thought that it was a pretty decent horror movie. This movie is a prequel to the first Amityville Horror, we learn what happened the original family and how the massacre came to be.As the family moves in, Sonny, the eldest son, is starting to hear voices, voices that are telling him to kill his family. He resists at first, but is possessed by the evil. He sleeps with his younger sister, scares a priest away from the house, and eventually is led to kill his family, only Sonny doesn't remember what happened. The family priest is the only one who knows what is going on and wants to stop the evil permanently, but we all know how that goes.The make up was highly effective, I have to admit that I had chills up my spin. But like I said, the script was a bit over the top and cheesy, and the affair was sick, I mean, brother and sister? Blah! Well, if you like horror movies, I think you might in some way like this, but otherwise, stay away, because you might be grossed out.5/10
I have no idea why, but from the cover and short summary in back, I thought that Primevil might have been an entertaining horror film. I'm not really into crocodile stories, they usually don't work, but for some reason this one looked very promising. When I started watching it, I kept checking the cover just to make sure I was on track, but the story just seemed to get lost somewhere. Now I don't mind different stories, but the cover promised something else and I wasn't even really that entertained or moved by the story.Basically there is a killer crocodile in Africa, apparently he is a big one to be very frightened of. So an American crew of reporters wish to capture the beast or get him on film so they can help these villages and become famous more so. But there is another major problem that takes the story to a completely different place, where there is a huge war going on and starts to terrorize these reporters and one by one they are killed off before the crocodile gets to them.Primevil would have had good potential for a horror movie, but it just went in an intense turn where you had no idea where the film would take you. The script was also in some ways done in poor taste and wasn't well thought out, like I'm not offended easily usually when it comes to racial jokes, but Orlando going on about slavery in Africa went a little too far and was ridiculous. The acting is so so, not the worst I've seen, but the effects are not that impressive, a warning in advance. But if you would like to check out this film, please feel free, but I wouldn't really recommend it.3/10
Zack and Miri Make a Porno, Kevin Smith who wrote and directed this, he's made some hit and miss comedies over the years, he's a great writer, he's made some extremely memorable films and characters. Zack and Miri Make a Porno is one of his good, but forgettable films though. Don't get me wrong, this is a very funny movie, it has some great moments, mostly at the beginning though, where as Justin Long just steals the show and you definitely want more of his character in the story. But there are some jokes that just completely gross me out, now I love Kevin Smith, but it seems as if he is now trying to compete with the Apatow clan, because it had that feel to it, only with more gross jokes. I'm sorry, but someone getting feces on them... it's just disgusting and really threw me off for the rest of the film. But Kevin still wrote a decent script that is good for a few laughs.Zack and Miri have been best friends since grade school, they're roommates now and are struggling like crazy to pay their bills. After attending their high school reunion, they meet the former quarterback stud and his boyfriend to find out they make and distribute their own porno's and make very good money at it. So Zack and Miri come on board as well, they're going to make a cheap porno with a group of friends and amateur porn stars. After constant games of who has feelings for who, Zack and Miri realize there might be more there than just a friendship as well.Zack and Miri Make a Porno is a good comedy, I loved the scene where they are shooting their first take, right in the middle of the sex that is taking place in a coffee shop, a drunk as heck customer walks in and just makes it more awkward than it already is. There are some other great scenes in here, while the film has it's really gross jokes and the story is nothing original when it comes to the friends becoming lovers, it was still a fun movie to watch. I just feel like this isn's Kevin Smith's strongest film, but it's worth the ticket price if you're looking for a few laughs, just take the title into consideration if you're thinking about seeing this.7/10
What would you do if you had a friend who supposedly is deaf and cannot speak? Would you confide your darkest secrets? Especially when you have to get it out, but fear being outed? I think in some ways we wish we could all do this since we have so much bottled up inside us, that's why I rented The Quiet, I didn't realize how dark this movie truly was until I saw it with my friend today. This story was so disturbing and horrific in my opinion, even though I'm not sure it's within my tastes, but it actually was a pretty well made movie.Dot is a deaf teenager who has just been adopted by her godparents, she also cannot speak, she is the outcast at school, and lost her parents at a young age. Nina is the parent's daughter who is very popular and has a very dark secret with her "daddy". When Nina spots Dot playing the piano, Dot has a secret of her own that just might out what is happening in their family.The Quiet is a very interesting plot that I found to be unique and pretty good. The acting is alright, I was surprised by how well the film worked and how well directed it was. I think the thing is though, it's one of those movies you can only see once, you'll see what I mean, because it touches bases you'd never think where a movie would go, you know? But I think we all need those type of movies every once in a while.7/10
Watching the Academy Awards for 2011 was absolutely insane, I don't think people could have gone crazier on the internet when The King's Speech took the Best Picture award. It seemed like The Social Network was the popular choice, which I had the chance to watch a few days ago expecting it to be like the moment that Goodfellas lost to Dances with Wolves, but honestly I wasn't that impressed. So naturally I was nervous because I purchased The King's Speech without seeing it first and thought it might be bad. But to my surprise not only did I end up loving this film; it was without a doubt the best picture of 2010 in my opinion. I just love history pieces and WWII is one of my favorite subjects and to be honest I never really thought about King George during the war. I didn't even realize that he had a speech impediment to be honest. This is not only a great film, but just a feel good story that will definitely leave you smiling.Prince Albert, Duke of York, the second son of King George V, has a stammering speech. The Duke tries several unsuccessful treatments and despairs, until his wife persuades him to see Lionel Logue, a speech therapist. To persuade him to follow his treatment, Logue bets Prince Albert a shilling that he can read perfectly at that very moment, and gives him Hamlet to read aloud, which he does while listening to loud music on headphones. Logue records Bertie's reading, but convinced that he has stammered throughout, Bertie leaves in a huff, declaring his condition "hopeless." Logue offers him the recording as a keepsake. Prince Albert plays Logue's recording and hears himself making an unbroken recitation of Shakespeare. He returns to Logue, and they work together on his speech. George V dies, and David accedes to the throne, still wanting to marry Mrs Simpson, a socialite divorcée. When he does abdicate to marry, Prince Albert becomes King George VI. The new King realizes that he needs Logue's help to lead his kingdom into war.I have only two complaints about the film, one being that I wish I could have seen him a little more into the war however I know this was to see how he over came his speech impediment, so I let that go very easily. Secondly, that my mother could have seen this film because she loved Colin Firth and would have adored The King's Speech. Colin Firth delivers a powerful performance and truly brings so much to the role, not just the difficulty that he had to over come but the vulnerability that he added to being thrown into being the King of England. That there was a time before where all a King had to do is just make an appearance while his speech wasn't really important to the people. In the 1930's, technology was becoming bigger and now broadcast across the nation would happen. I could only imagine the practice and patience that went into this man and truly became a remarkable king.Geoffry and Helena did an outstanding job as well supporting Firth in his glory. The sets, the costumes, the story, everything about this film was just perfect, it was a total pleasure to watch. As for those who are still in hysterics that The King's Speech won the Best Picture, I would have to remind you that it's your opinion that should matter, don't mind the awards. I think this was a wonderful film and am very glad that I bought it, I can't wait to watch it again.10/10
This does not star Kurt Russell, but rather allows him what amounts to an extended cameo. This work is more centered around the "son of" story line than it is the actual super heroes themselves, thereby failing to deliver the appropriate level of entertainment, and contributing instead, that enigmatic substance known as "kid appeal." I expected more. But having said that, there is more to this work than meets the eye. The story is modeled after the old classic "B" science fiction movies we hate to love, but do. The effects are nothing spectacular, but are still above what you would expect, all things considering. And beneath the camp, lies a stronger feeling, reminiscent of a classic superhero story, yet it still fails to achieve the desired affect; if only marginally.It was entertaining and I still had great fun in watching it.This rates an 8.1/10 from...the Fiend :.
I heard a little bit about Driving Miss Daisy, from the I Love The 80's on VH1, I know a few TV shows have spoofed this, and my parents telling me how much they loved this film. So I rented it today and I just watched it and I have to say that this film just touched my heart and was so incredible. The most unlikely of friends who are entering the same stages of life was not the most original plot, but it worked so well with the way Jessica and Morgan played off each other. The film was so well made and not to mention the acting was just so lovely, it's just so hard to resist this film.Daisy is an elderly Jewish woman who cannot drive any more after a little fender bender, but her son Boogie who is a very rich man, hires Hoke, an elderly black man who can still drive and will help her around the house somewhat. Daisy is just plain stubborn, especially after Hoke makes certain judgments on her lifestyle, but he soon comes to realize who she is, not to mention the other way around. Hoke helps Daisy come to terms with how the world is changing and how she may just need him around, considering that he is her only best friend in the world.Driving Miss Daisy, how could this film not be in the top 250? It's just a wonderful film that I'm sure anyone and I really do mean anyone could love. I didn't understand how anyone could rate this movie anything lower than a 9. But I'm not sure how the minds work on this website still, we all have our own personal top 250. But I would just recommend this film, it was a pleasure to watch and Morgan is truly a magnificent talent along with Jessica.10/10
I saw the remake of Cape Fear before I saw the original, to be honest, I wasn't even aware there was an original for a while, I just heard of it about a year ago and I finally came across it at the video store and just had to take a look at it. Martin's version was just so brilliant and horrifying, I was curious what the original must have been like and to be honest, I don't know if I could choose the better of the two, but I think both were just different interpretations of the story. I still loved Cape Fear the original, it was so beautifully made and so horrific.Max Cady has just been released from prison and he's out for revenge on his lawyer. The lawyer who had an opportunity to actually get Cady off the hook, but "counseler" felt guilty and made sure to put Cady away. But now Cady is not only after his lawyer, he's after his family as well and he will not stop until his revenge is complete, no matter what lengths he has to go through.The actor who played Cady was just so terrific, Gregory just captured Cady's insanity so perfectly and was so believable! The rape scene between him and Dianne, the hitch hiker, was so terrifying to watch! He was so intimidating, just his presence, man! What a performance! Please, please, watch this movie along with the remake, they are both terrific films and very scary! Cape Fear is one of those movies I will never forget.10/10
I've just been seeing a lot of films lately, especially in the horror genre where they are making these stories into the big mystery thrillers. It's just getting old, because this movie could have worked so well, but unfortunately the story just went into a very strange direction, even to the point where I'm not sure where anyone could understand this film. The story is very gruesome, very Texas Chainsaw Massacre style, very gory, but I always did love a good gory movie, I think we all need one, but this one just could have continued into a great story and turned into a strange thriller.Two best friends are going across the country for a party and they stay at one of the girl's family's home. But the night doesn't exactly go smoothly when a big man rings the doorbell very late into the night and massacres this family, and I mean brutally. But he takes one of the girls, puts her in his truck, and drives off, but he doesn't realize that the other girl is loose and chases him to save her friend.It's just a very strange movie, the lip syncing is of course a little off, due to the fact that this is a foreign film, it was kinda weird how they kept going from English to French to Italian singing. Well, I wouldn't really recommend this movie, it's alright, it just got turned into a very strange mystery that I'm not sure you can understand. I don't mean that in a bad way, because if anyone knows how the story worked, please send me an E-mail, it would be very much appreciated.6/10
Kung Fu Panda, when I saw this trailer, I have to admit, it looked pretty lame, it just seemed like a typical CGI kids film that wouldn't be much fun for the grown up's and like it would be forced humor. But I decided to go ahead and see the movie today, I'm so glad that I gave it chance because this was such an enjoyable film not just for me, but the kids as well. As I looked around the theater, everyone was just having so much fun watching Kung Fu Panda, the jokes, the animation, the voices, the story, I felt like I was watching real kung fu movie. The action sequences were so exciting and you couldn't help but just cheer for the warriors. I loved how the animals represented all the kung fu movie: the viper, the tiger, the praying mantas, the monkey, the crane, and the panda. This movie is just so much for the entire family to watch.Po is a panda who is just dreaming of one day to learn kung fu like his idols, the fantastic five, but his father wishes for him to take over their noodle restaurant. Bu when Oogway has a vision and tells Shifu that he is having a vision of Tai Lung, a student gone evil, is about to come back, he picks the "dragon warrior", which is Po. But Shifu sees Po as well as the fantastic five, they're all disappointed and don't believe in him. But after Tai Lung escapes, Shifu has to learn to believe in Po and help him with the strengths and the "secret ingredient" that he has.Kung Fu Panda is one of the year's most fun and entertaining movies that anyone could enjoy. I know that most of Dreamwork's cartoon films are not always as memorable as the Disney and Pixar combination, but they do pull out some great films. I just loved the scene where Shifu is training Po how to fight and they realize that it is food that is Po's strength, the fight for a dumpling was just so much fun and incredibly entertaining. I really enjoyed Kung Fu Panda with a passion, it's a big recommendation, it has great comedy, and some really terrific characters that will all get you in the mood for some kung fu fighting. Not to mention: Jack Black, Jackie Chan, Angelina Jolie, Dustin Hoffman, and Lucy Lui, plus many more, how could you not love a cast like that? Believe me, this is a fun movie.9/10
I always wanted to see Rat Race but I never did, don't know why, but I thought of it last night while I was renting some movies. I watched it last night and I have to say that I cannot believe that I missed out on this film! I thought that Rat Race is one of the funniest movies I have seen. As silly and outrageous as the humor is, I think that's just what I needed to put me in a good mood. The cast in Rat Race is absolutely perfect, they couldn't have picked a more comedic cast, not only that, but they all clicked so well together and made the film just an absolute blast to watch. Not to mention, cows are just getting a reputation as the perfect comedic relief, just look at not only Rat Race, but Twister, lol. The story is extremely clever, just how far most people would go to get money in their pockets.Donald P. Sinclair is a huge millionaire, he's so rich in fact, that he and his other rich buddies place the most obscene bets and they've just come up with the most cruel one of all. In a Las Vegas casino, several people have won a coin saying that they've won something. Donald has place two million dollars in a locker in Silver City, New Mexico. At first the group just laughs at him feeling like they've been scammed, but they think about it, and decide to just go for it. They all have to travel over two hundred miles while being watched by the rich group is watching them and betting on who is going to win the cash.Rat Race is incredibly clever and just a whole lot of fun to watch. Another great thing about this film is that it puts you in a great mood, you gotta love the comedies that can't stop make you laughing out loud. I think my favorite team was without a doubt Seth Green and his brother, they were just classic. I loved it when they had to stop all the flights from getting out so that they could have the same head start. I would highly recommend this movie to anyone, it's a fun comedy and deserves a better rating on IMDb, trust me, it really is that funny.8/10
My best friend, God, I love her, we've been friends for 10 years, she's been there for me through everything as I've been there for her, I would crawl through broken glass to get her a birthday gift wait, that doesn't sound so healthy. But I do love the girl, however, what the heck did I do to her to be punished this badly when she begged me to see The Proposal? See, I don't get it, we have a "romantic comedy" script, no one changes anything, just the actors, every cliché in the book and somehow people fall for it. There is a needle in a haystack when it comes to a romantic comedy being actually funny or entertaining, but with the positive reviews that the IMDb users had been writing, I was actually thinking maybe this might be a good movie YOU IMDb USERS, how dare you?! Shame on you that you fell for it once again, I'm going to point out how my puppy could have written this script after I tell you the story, even though I'm sure you can figure it out for yourself.Margaret Tate is the executive editor-in-chief of a book publishing company, Colden Books. All of her workers, including her assistant Andrew Paxton hate her, and she fires a senior editor, Bob Spaulding. After learning she is being deported to Canada, she forces Andrew to marry her, as his future is tied to hers. When the government investigates, Mr. Gilbertson informs them that they will undergo rigorous testing to prove that the marriage is not fraudulent. Andrew grudgingly accepts, under the condition that he is promoted to the position of editor and his manuscript be published. The two are forced to spend the weekend with his parents in Alaska in order to sell the lie. Margaret is very unreceptive of Alaska, and is shocked to learn that Andrew's family owns most of the business in Sitka. Andrew announces that he and Margaret are getting married. But as most romantic comedies, we know where this is all going as Margaret realizes the true value of family and Andrew realizes that Margaret is human as well, blah, blah, blah.So tell me how in the heck is this original or funny? For God's sake we even have the clichéd run to the airport before the girl leaves. The big kiss in front of a huge crowd that starts the slow clap. The crazy family that break down the "emotionless" woman into making her think that they're wonderful when really they all belong in a mental institution. The only thing The Proposal was missing was the clichéd gay best friend or the bitter best girl friend! You have to understand, I try, I mean I really really tried to be nice and enjoy the movie for what it was, but how can I when I know exactly what they are going to say or what would happen next? How is it that in every romantic comedy the most opposite of people who brutally hated each other then all of a sudden fall in love in less then 2 days?! Why?! How?! You IMDb users who marked this movie as a 10, don't ever talk to me, I'm going to have a hard enough time having to forgive my best friend for doing this to me as she won't stop saying "Oh, my God! That was the sweetest movie ever!".1/10
I cannot believe I never wrote a comment on The Sword in the Stone, my friends always joke how I'm the ultimate Mickey Mouse since I'm such a fan and I own every Disney movie on DVD. I wanted to watch one of my movies last night and I picked The Sword in the Stone and rediscovered how much I loved this movie when I was a kid and still love it today. I went on IMDb to see if I gave the appropriate rating, but I was surprised to see that I never did write about it, but I guess better late then never. Sword in the Stone is just a classic treasure that no family should be without but also the film lovers. A wonderful classic story told Disney style and filled with great songs and beautiful animation, how could anyone not fall in love with The Sword in the Stone.The "Sword in the Stone" appears in London, with an inscription proclaiming that "Who so Pulleth Out This Sword of this Stone and Anvil, is Rightwise King Born of England." None succeed in removing the sword, which is soon forgotten, leaving England in a Dark Age. Some years later, Arthur aka "Wart", a 12-year-old orphan training to be a squire. While accompanying his older foster brother Kay on a hunting trip. He falls into Merlin's cottage, Merlin declares himself Wart's tutor and the two return to Wart's home, a castle run by Sir Ector, Arthur's foster father. There Merlin stays with Arthur to teach him the ways of the world and the magic as well as the intelligence and strength he will need for his true destiny.I think my favorite moment of this film is definitely the battle between Merlin and Mim, since this is one of the rare Disney movies that doesn't have a definitive villain, but I think Mim was a close as you could get. Their battle was epic and absolutely amazing to watch, plus I love the classic sound effects with good old slap stick humor. Also I loved the story when Merlin turned Arthur and himself into squirrels and they were attacked by the lady squirrels was just too cute for words. I know the animation isn't up to par with today's standards, but this is the exact animation that I loved growing up with because the animators seemed to have a love for the film they were making.The Sword in the Stone is a classic Disney film that should never be missed and I can't wait to show my children one day. Disney always had a way of taking classic stories that may not interest a small child and puts action, adventure, romance and wonderful animation into it and made it come to life. I can't believe I hadn't watched this movie since I was a kid, because no film lover should be without this treasure, it's just so excellent and magical, takes you back to a simpler time where we were destined for greatness and the world was at our fingertips.10/10
OK, that title I used can sum up the script if you wanna see those movies, I feel bad saying that, but honestly, it feels as if they have used the same script over and over again just with different characters. In some ways I was looking forward to seeing A Walk To Remember because it had a decent rating and actually looked like a cute movie. Unfortunately, I got fluff, fluffy fluff, in fact this movie is what I would name as the ultimate fluffinator. This was Here on Earth all over again, which I do despise that movie as well, but however, I thought I was in for a treat with some of these movie comments here on IMDb. Seriously, I don't understand what is the appeal of these movies, they only attract the googly eyed teenage girls who think that this kind of love exists, don't mean to sound bitter, just this story was incredibly predictable and unrealistic.Landon Carter is the handsome popular jock at his school, one night after getting a boy injured, he has to do community service. He then meets the good girl conservative Christan, everyone teases her, but she doesn't care what other people think. They are together in theater, they have nothing in common, but Jamie feels as if she sees something in him. She does her best to get him to loosen up, but he just refuses back, until he sees that she's hot one night, then he gets interested and falls in love with her only to find out that, gasp, she's dying.Seriously, this is one of the biggest "huh's" when it comes to IMDb ratings, this movie is just a fairy tale when you think about it. It's a cheesy love story that really doesn't have any likable characters, I know that there isn't anything to dislike about Jamie's character, but there's nothing to like in my opinion. If you wanna see this movie, I am going to warn you that if you've seen Here on Earth, Sweet November or Autumn in New York, you've seen this movie, but it's just the more innocent goodie two shoes version.3/10
After my friend just couldn't shut up about how great Across the Universe was, he just kept begging me to sit down and watch it, so I finally did. We are both Beatle fans, so I think that's why he went so crazy over it, however, I wasn't so thrilled. While this movie is very creative at taking such classic songs by the Beatles and turning it into an entire story, I felt like this film was a little over the top and wasn't exaclty well put together. I was disappointed on a few things: the story wasn't that original, the Vietnam War story has been done too many times to the point where I was able to predict the story. Second: the songs, I absolutely love the Beatles, but the some of the songs felt like the director just pushed them in at last minute because he had too. Third: the characters don't have and depth and don't really do too much for the story.Jude has come to America from Liverpool, England to see his real father, he succeeds, but both of them know it's not the right time to get to know each other. But Jude decides to stay, he meets a college student, Max, they instantly become friends. Jude meets Lucy, Max's sister, they instantly fall in love. But the Vietnam War is tearing them apart when Max is sent to fight in battle; a few friends of their's stick together and try to bring the war down and make a difference. Lucy goes so far in the peace fight that it starts to pull apart her relationship with Jude and sends him back to England when caught in the middle of a riot. But Jude wants to fight to get Lucy back through the power of song, because all you really need is love.Across the Universe is a decent film, I would never deny that it was unique and interesting to watch, but I just wasn't too moved with this film. In some strange way it reminded me of Forrest Gump, with the girl who is in the peace fight and the man who is finding himself, also the music too I think. The actors were good, but I felt like this was just a waste of their talents, I mean acting wise, their singing was fantastic, but Across the Universe just didn't do anything for me. I know there are a lot of people who are going to disagree with me on this comment, a lot of users loved this movie, but I just didn't get into it, so I suppose this is a movie that you will have to judge for yourself, but I wouldn't really recommend it if you've seen a lot of Vietnam War movies.6/10
Let's face it, there are a lot of remakes, there are some good one's: The Thing, The Hills have Eyes, and The Texas Chainsaw Massacre. There are some average one's: House of Wax, House on Haunted Hill, and War of the Worlds. Then there are the bad one's: Halloween, The Fog, and Psycho. Last House on the Left, my parents had absolutely held me from the original movie, but when I became an adult I rented the movie and watched it by myself, I was just so curious what they were trying to hold me back from, I wasn't really shocked with the movie, I could see how it was gritty and brutal in the day, but after seeing movies like I spit on your grave, Hostel, Dirty Harry, Casino, etc, it just didn't really effect me. So I was actually looking forward to a remake of this just to see what they would do with the story and I have to say that they not only made it better, it was just a very great horror film that made me want to take 15 showers afterwards.Mari and her family are going on vacation. When they arrive at the house, Mari asks to sleep in the guest house instead of in the main house. Mari's brother, Ben, had died one year earlier, and the family are still trying to adjust to his absence. She finds a necklace he gave her and puts it on. She decides to ride into town to see her friend Paige. Mari's mother, Emma, is cautious, but her father, John, lets her go. Mari meets up with Paige at the store where Paige is employed. A young kid named Justin approaches the counter and asks for a pack of cigarettes, which Paige does not give to him due to his age. Justin says that if they join him at his motel room, he will give them marijuana. Paige agrees and sells him the cigarettes. They drive to Justin's motel room and Justin and Paige enter. Mari waits in the car but notices they are taking too long. She enters the room where she finds Justin and Paige on the bed getting high. She joins them and they decide to give Justin a makeover. They are interrupted by Krug, Sadie, and Francis. Krug explains that it is too risky to let Paige and Mari live. They decide to not only murder but rape the young girls. The gang goes to Mari's house not knowing that's where she's staying with her parents, her parents welcome the gang in thinking they got into a car accident. But Mari somehow survives and comes back home; her parents discover that the people they've been helping are the same people that just tried to murder their daughter and now it's time for justice.This is the movie that you cannot wait to see justice brought to these sleazebags, they were so disgusting, I was just screaming and cheering in the theater. Like the tag line said, if bad people hurt someone you love, how far would you go to hurt them back? If that was my daughter, you wouldn't wanna know the sick things I would've done to these slimy people. The thing that made this movie so horrific was how realistic it was. The rape scene doesn't show much but is one of the most graphic and disturbing in cinema, even my 25 year old boyfriend had to cover his eyes, he said he was just incredibly sick from it because he can't imagine the pain she was going through. The performances are on and the story is great. I would say this is one of the best remakes in years, this is not for the faint of heart though, but if you're curious about the remake, trust me, this was a very respectful movie of the original horror story of murder and revenge.8/10
A couple of months ago my boyfriend told me about a trailer that really scared him, The Fourth Kind. So we went to the movies and I saw the trailer as well, even though I didn't have the same reaction as he did, I was kind of intrigued. Who doesn't love a good sci-fi thriller? So we saw this opening weekend and this was a major disappointment on every level. First, we have Milla Jovovich coming on screen and introducing herself saying that this is a true story and she's portraying a real life doctor who went through the events that she's about to show. So I'm thinking "Ok, even though this is BS, I'll go with it", then it automatically goes into split screen. I'm thinking "Um, OK, is this a documentary, a movie or America's Most Wanted?". This movie was nothing but a split screen trying to insult the audience's intelligence by making it look like it's based on a true story.The Fourth Kind is set in modern-day Nome, Alaska, where-mysteriously since the 1960s-a disproportionate number of the population has been reported missing every year. Despite multiple FBI investigations of the region, the truth has never been discovered. Here in this remote region, psychologist Dr. Abigail Tyler began videotaping sessions with traumatized patients and unwittingly discovered some of the most disturbing evidence of alien abduction ever documented. Using never-before-seen archival footage that is integrated into the film, The Fourth Kind exposes the terrified revelations of multiple witnesses. Their accounts of being visited by alien figures all share disturbingly identical details, the validity of which is investigated throughout the film.The film ends with the director coming on the screen saying "Believe what you want", and it's a total slap to the face. This is a fictional story because if it was real, we would've heard something about it, especially with today's age of the internet. Another problem is the way the film was made, it's pretty much all split screen and is too much on the eyes. What I would've done if I made this film, I would've made it just as a regular film. Then introduce "the real doctor" at the end and show "the real footage". Because we've already seen the reenacted footage, why not then compare at the end? Also the actress who played "the real doctor", oh, my gosh, could they have picked someone more annoying? I understand what she was trying to do, but her droning on the script with her zombie like voice and appearance was just awful. The acting pretty much on everyone's part is awful, because this movie was taken too seriously when it had so much potential.The story just had a lot of flaws. The patients are having these nightmares and one of them really looses it and kills his family and himself for no reason what so ever, have no idea what his motivations were other than maybe him trying to protect them from the abduction, I don't know. The sheriff asks Dr. Tyler what the patients have been telling her and what is going on, for some reason he's blaming her for the murder/suicide. She put the patients in a hypnosis, but she didn't know the outcome, so how could the sheriff blame her? Then another patient she puts under hypnosis, his body contorts and paralyzes him, the sheriff then threatens to arrest her? Why? I don't get it! He has no right. Nothing about this movie made any sense and was a waste of my time. I suggest you skip it, it's trash and deserved better than what this director did to it. It could have been a fun alien flick and turned into a total joke.2/10
I was looking forward to The Legend of Zorro after being very happy with The Mask of Zorro, I have also been falling more and more in love with Antonio Bandares lately. He and Catherine had the greatest chemistry in the first Zorro movie, but it turned into a Mummy's Return kind of romance, where it just fizzled out and seemed to have not as much chemistry as the first.Zorro is back with his love Elena, but she is fed up with him and wants a divorce since he keeps flaking out on his promises of quitting his job and staying with her and their son, Joquien. He barely knows his family, therefore Elena demands a divorce. She moves onto a count, but it turns out that this count wants to destroy and make California his state and not a state of freedom. Zorro must defend the state and win back his family, but can he do it all at the same time? The Legend of Zorro has some fun humor and great action sequences here and there, but it is the story that fizzles out and it just seemed like everyone lost their edge. If you are interested in seeing this movie, you might want to give it a chance, you never know, you may like it, unfortunately, I wasn't into it.5/10
The Curious Case of Benjamin Button, when I was working at a movie theater, I had seen the first hour of the movie, but never got to finish it. I was so disappointed because this movie looked like something truly special and finally I got to rent it, while I'm disappointed that I didn't finish it on the big screen this is one of the great movies out of 2008. Brad Pitt as we know has proved to be more then just a pretty face, he's pulled in some great performances, he needed a push though to get recognized by the academy and this was the role that he truly deserved to be noticed. He plays one of the most memorable movie characters that I'm sure will be remembered for all time, Benjamin Button, he plays the character with such love and passion, he and Cate Blanchett together once again to provide the perfect chemistry and make The Curious Case of Benjamin Button a very special movie.An elderly Daisy is on her deathbed with her daughter Caroline in a hospital as a hurricane approaches. Daisy asks Caroline to read aloud from a diary containing photographs and postcards written by Benjamin Button. Caroline begins to read as the story transitions to Benjamin's narration. In 1918, just as the people of New Orleans are celebrating the end of the Great War, a baby boy is born with the appearance and physical maladies of an elderly man. The mother of the baby dies shortly after giving birth, and the father, Thomas Button, takes the baby and abandons him on the porch of a nursing home. Queenie and Tizzy, a couple who work at the nursing home, find the baby. Queenie decides to take the baby in as her own. Over the course of the story, Benjamin begins to biologically grow younger. In 1930, while still appearing to be in his seventies, Benjamin meets a young girl named Daisy, whose grandmother lives in the nursing home. A few years later, Benjamin goes to work on a tugboat on the docks of New Orleans for Captain Mike. While in Russia, he begins an affair with the older, married Elizabeth. Eventually, she breaks it off, only leaving him a note telling him she was glad they met. In 1962, Daisy returns to New Orleans and meets Benjamin again. Now the same physical age, they fall in love and move in together. They experience the 1960s together, in large part blissfully but increasingly aware of Benjamin growing younger while Daisy grows older. Daisy gives birth to a girl, Caroline. Benjamin, believing he cannot be a father to his daughter due to his reverse aging, and not wanting to burden Daisy with having to raise two children, sells his belongings, and leaves the proceeds to Daisy and Caroline. He leaves them both and travels the world.If you get the chance, I highly recommend The Curious Case of Benjamin Button, this movie was just incredible in it's scope, story, setting and actors. David Fincher took what could have been just a small treasure and made it into something incredible. This was one of the saddest love stories I have seen in a long time, we really haven't had anything too special when it comes to a love story in film, we did have Slumdog Millionaire in 2008 as well, but The Curious Case of Benjamin Button carried it's love story throughout and made you really pity this couple that you know can't have much of a future together. Brad Pitt and Cate Blanchett are absolutely beautiful in this movie along with a great supporting cast, The Curious Case of Benjamin Button is a movie not to be missed.9/10
I remember when I first saw the trailer last year for Ghost Rider, I just kept thinking "Oh, no, what is Nicolas Cage doing to his career?". But I had a free rental and I have no idea why, I just decided to go ahead and see what I expected to be one of the worst movies of all time, I watched Ghost Rider this morning and really, I'm not that upset with this movie. Granted, it has the ultimate cheesy dialog that I've heard, but it is based off a comic, so I actually let that go. Nicolas Cage, while I still question the casting of him as Ghost Rider, don't get me wrong, he does look good, but he's a little old for the action hero gig, but he does make the film work pretty well. I understand a lot of people not liking this movie, besides the dialog, the effects are a bit much, but I feel like this was an honest comic book film and had all the action and excitement it should have.Johnny Blaze made a very bad deal, a deal with the devil when he learns about his father having cancer, the devil will cure Johnny's dad, if Johnny agrees to be his bounty hunter, the Ghost Rider. Johnny's soul is now in the hands of the devil, meaning that nothing can come between them: family, friends, or love. But when Johnny's old love returns to his life, he takes this as a sign, and wants to tell her about his curse. But the devil's son, Blackheart, who wants to bring Hell on Earth, must be stopped and Ghost Rider is on the mission.Ghost Rider really, honestly is not that bad of a movie. I would say that it is average, but it delivered what it promised. I do hate CGI effects, especially the cheesy ones, but the effects were pretty cool in Ghost Rider. I thought the effect of Ghost Rider riding up the side of the sky scraper was so cool to look at. Ghost Rider is definite eye candy, it has good actors, and a cool story; I'm not going to lie, it's flawed, but I feel like people were a little too harsh and just didn't want to give the film a fair chance. I watched it expecting trash and I found myself enjoying Ghost Rider, so just grab the popcorn and watch it with an open mind.6/10
At last, I finally saw X-Men: First Class, seemed to take forever. I grew up with the cartoon X-Men, the good ol' 90's, how fun they were. When they made the movies, it seemed like we actually had great comic book films as well. The thing that makes X-Men so wonderful is that growing up, a lot of us feel different and X-Men was a way of saying that it's cool to be different and to embrace yourself. Everyone knows the characters and we each have our favorite. But to see where it all began was what I really wanted to know, what was the friendship between Charles and Erik like before their feud started? It's pretty much the equivalent of Martin Luther King, Jr. and Malcolm X, two men who had the same principles , but different concepts and how to execute their plans. Also this movie for me at least seemed to be a mixture of X-Men and the Bond films, I know this can't be just me, because a lot of the styles were similar and the villains seemed really inspired. X-Men: First Class could have been a sell out film for the summer, but turned into a really great film.In 1962, Erik Lensherr is tracking down Schmidt to take revenge for killing his parents. In England, Oxford University graduate Charles Xavier is publishing his thesis on mutation; Raven, his foster sister, lives with him. A man named MacTaggert is seeking Xavier's advice on mutation, convinces him and Raven to join her at the CIA, where they convince Director McCone that mutants exist and Shaw is a threat. The CIA executives sponsor the mutants and invites them to the CIA's secret "Division X" facility. Xavier locates Shaw, arriving in time to stop Lensherr, who had attacked Shaw, from drowning as Shaw escapes. Xavier brings Lensherr to Division X, where they meet scientist Hank McCoy, a prehensile-footed mutant whom Xavier inadvertently outs as a mutant. Xavier uses a mutant-locating device to find and recruit mutants for training to stop Shaw. He and Lensherr find other mutants and now vow to stop Schmidt from taking over the Cold War and making it into WWIII.The effects are very CGI at times, but every Magneto effect was killer, especially him lifting the submarine out of the water, it looked incredible. The powers for the newbies were cool and a lot of fun to choose which one I would rather have, I think I want each power for a different day. James McAvoy and Michael Fassbender had great chemistry and their friendship was extremely strong on camera. The scene between them where Xavier is telling Erik how to control his powers was extremely moving, no pun intended. My only complaint being is that the film is a bit long and does drag on a bit, it seems like every film released in the theater is over 2 hours long. If the film carries on well, I'm perfectly fine with it, but in this case, the film could have been trimmed down a bit. But still, the movie is definitely worth the watch, it's a great summer blockbuster and in general a good movie that was a worthy addition to a terrific series of movies.8/10
Garfield, one of my all time favorite cartoons was made into a cheesy CGI thing for the kids, in 2004, I was just so angry that they made this movie. It made me feel so good that it had bombed and people were bashing it, pathetic, huh? But I was renting movies the other day and came across it, since I've grown up a little bit, I figured to just let got and give the movie a chance. So I watched it last night, while I still think it's a little ridicules, Garfield isn't really as bad as I was expecting. The only complaint I have is that it really didn't understand the whole purpose of the cartoon. Garfield didn't talk with his mouth moving, also they didn't establish the relationship between him and Jon. But I'm just taking this movie for what it is, it's aimed at kids and there are little laughs in there for the adults as well.Garfield is your typical orange lazy fat cat that is just living the lifestyle with his owner, Jon. Nothing can seem to go wrong since he's so spoiled, but when Jon's crush, Liz, gives him a dog to take care of named Odie, Garfield feels threatened and tries to get rid of the kind pooch. When he kicks Odie outside, he runs away only to get captured by a greedy TV host who wants to make money off of Odie's cuteness and dancing talent that Garfield taught him. When Garfield realizes what he lost, he goes to save the day.Garfield is good for what it is, a family movie, something the kids could definitely get into. For the fans of the cartoon, you'll agree with me when you see it and know that it does defeat the purpose of the cartoon. It was kind of weird that Garfield could talk but Odie couldn't, not to mention that Jon not understanding Garfield like he did in the cartoon but not in the movie was a little strange to me. But I suppose they were trying to come up with something new for the kids, so I'm going to let it slide and just give this movie a fair rating. It's not such a bad film, it's decent and watchable, just don't expect the cartoon.6/10
When I first saw the trailer for Baby Mama, I just thought this movie was going to be a total disaster, it didn't look funny and like another typical chick flick. But my friends wanted to see it, so we saw it opening weekend, and actually I was surprised, I did like a lot better than what I was expecting. Baby Mama is something that looks like from the Lifetime Network, but it's all good, it has some really funny moments and was just cute. Amy Poehler and Tina Fey are two very funny women from Saturday Night Live, they also did Mean Girls together and made their characters an absolute joy to watch, so seeing them as the leads in this film was going to be an interesting turn. Tina Fey definitely has a lot of talent not only as a writer, but as an actress, she made her character believable and as neuritic as she was, she was still likable. Amy Poehler made her character a little too SNL at times, but these girls made the movie enjoyable and a fun flick to watch for the afternoon.Kate is a single and successful woman who seems to have it all in life, but one thing she wants so bad is a baby. But one problem, her uterus isn't liked by her doctor, in other words, she has a one in a million chance of getting pregnant. After adoption woes and sperm donor failures, she decides to get a sergeant mother who will get pregnant and give her a child. She meets white trash couple, Angie and Carl. Angie moves into Kate's apartment after her break up with Carl, so this "odd couple" has to teach each other some new moves in life.Baby Mama is actually worth the watch, I was very impressed with how much I liked it, like I said, from the trailer, it doesn't seem like a good movie, but when you watch it, you get the laughs and the smiles that the movie promises. It is a chick flick, warning to people who have a strong hatred for them, but I'm not a fan of chick flicks, and you know what? I thought that this was just a fun movie that if you let go and even enjoy the predictability, you'll find yourself loving Baby Mama.7/10
Teenage girls and the "forbidden love" goes together like peanut butter and jelly, they've always been two things that are an unstoppable magnet. With the release of Twilight, the fantasy has been on a popular ride and Hollywood is cashing in. One classic story that is as we will call "a tale as old as time" and you've got Beastly. It's not a bad idea, but when given in the wrong hands can be a mess. Now I didn't see this in the theater, I saw Beastly on the movie channel when I had nothing better to do. I had an open mind because sometimes movies do surprise you and I don't like to have a closed mind to film. But it was pretty much as most expected and you can see why it was a flop when you get actors that look pretty and that's pretty much it.Kyle Kingson is the arrogant and vain son of wealthy Rob Kingson. At a party, he bullies the Gothic Kendra Hilferty. Disgusted, Kendra magically transforms Kyle into a bald, tattooed and scarred shell of his once-handsome self. Kendra says Kyle has until the next spring to find someone who loves him or he stays this way forever. His father Rob takes Kyle to live in a private house with their maid Zola and Kyle's blind tutor Will Fratalli. Rob initially promises to support his son, but gradually neglects his son over time and stops visiting him after work altogether. Angry and hurt, Kyle finds sympathy from Will and Zola. As spring draws closer, Kyle finds himself infatuated with Lindy Taylor, a girl from his former school who he had initially been as distant. Spying on her, he sees her father, a druggie, engaged in an altercation with two drug dealers. He shoots one, who vows vengeance by taking Lindy's life. Kyle saves Lindy, and persuades her father to allow Lindy to move in with him. Then trying to form a love with her before the year ends and he has to stay this way forever.Alex Pettyfer who plays Kyle doesn't do a bad job, but is very unbelievable. There are people in this world who are so looks oriented they can't see straight, but how do they win elections if that's all they talk about? Not everyone thinks this way and especially when he's giving a speech to win the president for student counsel or whatever, he's insulting some of the students directly and wins? Then his random chemistry with Vanessa Hudgkins was so contrived and unbelievable. Plus I think I found the loop hole in the spell that Michelle Tanner should've fixed, Kyle tells Vanessa that his name is Hunter so she doesn't know that it was him from her school, she thinks it's someone else that's trying to protect her. So technically she didn't fall in love with Kyle, she fell in love with Hunter. The make up for Kyle wasn't very effective either, he just looked like a punk kid who didn't get much love from his parental unit growing up.The only good thing about this film for me was Neil Patrick Harris who must've owed the director a favor. But he adds the humor that was needed for the story and makes you comfortable even if the movie was silly. And LisaGay Hamilton who plays the maid, she was more believable and had a heart warming story that was more interesting than poor good looking rich boy turning ugly. It's a below average movie that misses the mark. It's definitely not the worst film I've seen, but it's badly miscast and depends too much on the looks of the two main actors to get by in the film. Without character development, you don't have a movie. Just stick to the classic Disney film kids, at least that had the heart to not insult your intelligence.2/10
I had somewhat heard of Fright Night from IMDb users, to be honest though, I never looked at the rating on IMDb before renting the movie. But I came across the film today and decided to rent it and give it a look. I watched it tonite and I have to say that this was just a fun movie to watch. It had a perfect combination of horror, comedy, action, and sigh, romance. The cast looked like they had so much fun putting this film together, it's hard not to love it. Now I admit that this film has the 80's cliché's written all over it, so it is a bit dated with it's big hair, clothing, and style, but it's all good. The story of Fright Night is an entertaining one.Charley has a new next door neighbor who's quite the mysterious guy, he has beautiful ladies come over but then they end up missing afterwards. One night Charley spies on his new neighbor, Jerry, while it looks like he's about to have a hot date, but Charley sees Jerry's fangs and knows he's a vampire. Problem is that no one believes him, not his girlfriend, Amy, his best friend, Evil Ed, or his TV icon Peter Vincent. But Charley is determined to fry this blood sucking fiend before it's too late.Fright Night is just a fun midnight pic that I'm sure any horror fan could enjoy. I'm sorry that I came across it so late, but considering that it was made the year I was born, better late then never, right? So for horror fans, I would recommend this if you have never seen it. It's just a good fun horror film with decent scares and a great cast. I can't believe all the familiar faces that came with it, but you'll have to see for yourself. So pull up the popcorn and be prepared for Fright Night.7/10
When I saw the trailer for Hellboy II: The Golden Army, I hadn't seen the first Hellboy, so before I saw the sequel, I wanted to see the first movie, so I rented it and when I watched it, I wasn't really thrilled with it. I mean, it was a decent movie, but it wasn't something I would watch again, so I was thinking that the sequel was going to be a bust and probably not do much for the story, for what they had at least. Another thing was that the people that I talked to who had seen this movie before I saw it said that it was horrible and a waste of time, but I still did want to see this movie, so I decided to go ahead and just judge for myself. After all, I do admire Guillermo del Toro's style, his visions are eye candy and his stories can be incredible, so Hellboy II: The Golden Army? It seriously was so awesome! It was a whole lot better and stronger than the first Hellboy.Hellboy is becoming quite the star in town, which isn't making the government very happy and they are becoming more and more angry with him since his growing popularity, but they're not the only one who's unhappy with his behavior, Liz is getting upset with his behavior as well. But things are more worse than Hellboy's youtube popularity, Prince Nuada wishes to raise the undefeatable golden army that can destroy the human race. Princess Nuala, his twin sister, is the only link that can stop him as well as Hellboy and his friends, but the strong link between Nuala and Nauda is scary, if he dies, she dies as well since she helps out Hellboy and becomes Abe Sapien's new love.Hellboy II: The Golden Army is a great action movie and I'm really glad I gave it a chance. I'm telling you right now, the creatures in this movie are so visually stunning, the work that was put into this film was absolutely incredible and I have a whole lot more respect for Guillermo del Toro for his work, he really knows how to keep the audience's eyes on the screen. He made Hellboy into a solid comic book film. I love the character, Hellboy, I think more so in this one because he acts more human and you can't help but feel for him when the world turns on him after him saving it. Hellboy II: The Golden Army is a recommendation from me, it's a good movie and is guaranteed fun to watch.8/10
OK, I work at a movie theater and the main thing we've been waiting for is High School Musical 3: Senior Year, we knew it was going to be big, so a few co-workers and I got together for the matinée before all the kids rushed in, it was still packed surprisingly. But I've seen both previous films because my little cousin is just in love with all that pre-teen hoop-la, it's all good, every generation has something so lovey-dovey-cutesee-wootsee type of thing. But one of the things that made this film enjoyable was to see all the kids who were just participating with this film, I mean, I felt like I was in a concert, the kids were clapping with the songs, screaming for their idols, and just having fun, it was cool to see their reactions, to remember a more innocent time of being in love that much with something. But I felt like this was just a cute movie that is getting too much criticism just because it is High School Musical, give it a break and take it for what it is.The gang is back for their senior year and everything is just perfect, they came up with a great idea for a musical to represent all that they're going through in this exciting year. But there is also a lot of pressure: Zack is facing a tough decision of which college to go to while Gabriella is planning on going to Yale University so far away from him, Sharpay and her brother, Ryan, are competing for a scholarship to Juliard, and Chad and Taylor are learning what to do with the rest of their lives while loosing their best friends to different schools.Granted High School Musical is never Oscar material, in fact, it's downright like having a soda after school with the hot quarterback or sexy cheerleader, but like I said, it's for the kids. Seeing their reactions to this reminded me and my co-workers of a more innocent time, when I had the same excitement to see Spice World when I was 12 years old. We all had these silly things we loved at a young age and for some reason we become more cynical as we get older criticizing everything that the new generation has, so I'm cutting this movie some slack. It had fun songs, cute characters, silly situations, but great dance numbers and is just over all a nice film for the family. I do recommend it just for the fun of being with the fans and just having a good time, no matter how cheesy it is.6/10
Well, after months and months of waiting, Shutter Island was finally released this weekend. I've been dying to see this movie, I love Martin Scorsese and Leonardo DiCaprio. These two together just equal gold and you are always sure to have a guaranteed good time at the movie theater. But maybe it's not always a guarantee; unfortunately, Shutter Island was a huge disappointment to me. The weird thing is, it's over something silly but important, the editing. We have fantastic actors, a great story, awesome direction and a spooky atmosphere. But the problem is, the movie does run a bit long, being at almost two and a half hours, it was exhausting to get through the movie. The beginning is so slow paced that it looses track of it's characters and by the time for it's exciting conclusion, I just felt a bit empty.It's 1954, and up-and-coming U.S. marshal Teddy Daniels is assigned to investigate the disappearance of a patient from Shutter Island's Ashecliffe Hospital. He'd been gunning for an assignment on the island for reasons of his own -- but before long he wonders whether he hasn't been brought there as part of a twisted plot by hospital doctors whose radical treatments range from unethical to illegal to downright sinister. Teddy's code-breaking skills soon provide a promising lead, but the hospital refuses him access to records he suspects would break the case wide open. As a hurricane cuts off communication with the mainland, more dangerous criminals "escape" in the confusion, and the puzzling, improbable clues proliferate, Teddy begins to doubt everything -- his memory, his partner, even his own sanity.I feel so awful because I wanted to love this movie, I was expecting it to be my favorite film of 2010. Still Leonardo DiCaprio, Ben Kingsley and Mark Ruffalo held their own and carried the movie very well. The whole feeling of the film was extremely spooky and does have some very frightening and intense moments. I absolutely adored the ending as it's a puzzle for the audience and it lets you make up your own decision on what has happened throughout the film. The story does have some clever twists and turns that should keep you locked in the movie. But like I mentioned before, the story really did need to be cut down. I have a feeling that if the movie was more like an hour and forty-five minutes, it would have worked a lot better.The tension just wasn't enough for me to keep interest, my friends were also a bit disappointed, they felt the same. By the time the ending and all the answers came together, they were just disinterested in the story and characters. Now, I don't mind a lengthy movie, but that comes with the exception that the makers of the film keep up with the action and whatever is needed to keep the plot going. I felt like the Nazi story that Teddy kept dreaming about could have been kept to a limit, it's constantly brought up. Also another question I had was that it seemed like Teddy seemed to favor his daughter over his other children and I don't know why; because when he finds out that his wife killed his children, he immediately rushes to his daughter vs. the sons, he also dreams more of her than the boys. The ending was also semi anti-climatic. The critics were saying that the ending makes the movie all worth it and while I agree it's a great ending, it fell flat the very last second for me. I'm thinking this movie would be better as a rental, because you have the chance to have better concentration at home with what is going on in the story. Martin and Leonardo did a good job, but the film just wasn't what I expected, but I guess we all can't be perfect, right? Just why did this have to happen with Marty and Leo? Well, here's to the next project with them, maybe it'll be better.7/10
My boss has just been killing me with how much she has been raving about this movie. She said it was one of those films I just had to see and it was one of the funniest she saw. Then she said, hopefully as a joke, I should not come back to work until I saw this movie, so I rented it immediately that night and watched it. I have to agree, this was a very hilarious movie that I just couldn't stop laughing at. But do you wanna know something scary? After I saw this film, I was telling my mom how I agree that our society is "dumbening" down and how many of my friends could act like complete morons when it comes to common sense. Then I go online to check some mail and I see the lead story, parents in Switzerland wanna name their kid "4Real", scary isn't it?Joe is your average Joe, he is asked to participate in an army experiment with a hooker, Rita. This experiment is to see if we can prolong life, but before they can reopen the experiment, the army is shut down. 500 years have passed and Joe awakes to a very different world, but you know how we were supposed to get more intelligent in the future? Well, it's not like that, everyone speaks in "Valley Girl" or "Surfer Dude" or they just slur their words together. Joe is later proved to be the smartest man on Earth, which is good, I'm not sure compared to this world where they feed juice to plants and don't know how to treat sick people or know what shapes are. Joe has to save the world and humanity, which is pretty scary considering how normal he is and is being helped by a hooker.Idiocracy is one of those must see movies, in fact just take a look around, this will be our world if we don't shape up I feel. It's a really good movie and just a fun comedy that I'm sure will make you laugh more than a few times. I loved how Joe is trying to get his identity in this world and he ends up getting the name "Not Sure". I loved President Camacho and Upgradd. Please just give this movie a chance, it's all in good fun.7/10
So a few weeks ago, my sister and I decided to watch a movie and wanted to see Titanic again, so of course we get to the sad ending where Jack dies, but Rose lived on to have an incredible life, I asked my sister "I wonder what would've happened if Jack lived? Would he and Rose really have lasted like they thought they would have?", she giggled and asked if I saw Revolutionary Road, I said no and she said to see this movie and my question would be answered. So here's something I never thought I would say, especially in 1997, thank God Jack died! OK, sorry for the lousy introduction, I always like to say how I saw the movie. But I didn't just want to see Revolutionary Road because of the reunion between the extremely talented Leonardo DiCaprio and Kate Winslet, but also one of my favorite directors of all time Sam Mendes(American Beauty) who took on this project in the new telling of what the American Dream is and maybe it's not always what we had expected it to be.Frank and April Wheeler moved to Revolutionary Road in one of New York City's wealthy Connecticut suburbs, and have a daughter and a son in hopes of living the American dream. But April is dissatisfied with her life as a suburban housewife, and Frank despises his marketing job at Knox Business Machines, where his father worked for twenty years in a similar position. They feel that they are unique and special, but trapped in the conformity of life in the suburbs, where they moved to raise their children. On Frank's birthday April surprises him with a birthday cake and a proposal that they move to Paris, with April working as a secretary to support the family so that Frank can discover what he truly wants to do in life. Frank is reluctant at first but ultimately embraces the idea, and the renewed optimism breathes fresh life into their relationship. Meanwhile, April becomes pregnant again, she wants an abortion and has bought a device she has heard is safe if used in the first twelve weeks. Frank disapproves. Later, Frank is offered a promotion and raise at work. Eventually he tells April that for the sake of the unborn baby he has decided not to go to Paris. Extremely unhappy, April starts to go crazy and screams her hatred for Frank as he still tries to continue to make the "perfect and comfortable" life for her.This movie was really amazing, it's one of the most over looked Oscar wise from 2008, both Kate and Leonardo pull in heart wrenching performances. The thing about their characters is that I saw so much of my parents in them, they had all these amazing dreams together, were so in love, but then discover that life jumps in the front seat to what they really wanted to do. Kate's character, April, is receiving a lot of hate, but honestly I couldn't hate her, how could you? Yes, she said some awful things, but when it came down to it, she just wanted the man she fell in love with back again, she wanted to feel alive. The problem was both her and Frank were trying to run away from their problems, then Frank got comfortable; honestly, who knows what would have fixed their problems? But I do recommend Revolutionary Road, I really thought it's a small masterpiece and will get more recognition in the future I hope.10/10
The other day I was watching one of my VHS tapes and a commercial played showing all the old Universal Picture monster movies and I used to absolutely love watching them as a kid, they always gave me the creeps. But my parents only bought Dracula, Frankenstein, and the Bride of Frankenstein, so I went out and rented the rest of the movies I had missed out on to watch at home. The Wolf Man was first on my watch list and I still have such a strong love for these classic movies. I try to put myself back in the time that this was released and I could only imagine just the amazement that people experienced watching Lon Chaney change into the wolf man. The whole atmosphere of the movie is just creepy and the cast is exceptional, Bela Lugosi was one of the best in the cast as the creepy gypsy who was also the first werewolf. Lon Chaney made a great wolf man and was a tragic character that made this movie a memorable classic.Larry Talbot returns to his ancestral home in Llanwelly, Wales to reconcile with his father. While there, Larry becomes romantically interested in a local girl named Gwen Conliffe, who runs an antique shop. As a pretext, he buys something from her, a silver-headed walking stick decorated with a wolf. Gwen tells him that it represents a werewolf. That night, Larry attempts to rescue Gwen's friend Jenny from what he believes to be a sudden attack by a wolf. He kills the beast with his new walking stick, but is bitten in the process. He soon discovers that it was not just a wolf; it was a werewolf, and now Talbot has become one. A gypsy fortuneteller reveals to Larry that the animal which bit him was actually her son Bela in the form of a wolf. Bela had been a werewolf for years and now the curse of lycanthropy has been passed to Larry.I loved The Wolf Man, I love all these classic monster movies, even if they are old, they're a lot of fun to watch. There's such magic to the old Hollywood, this was before the teenage slasher films and silly clichés. Though I have to admit, it's a fun plot hole, Lon Chaney is in a wife beater shirt and pants, he changes into the werewolf, then when he's wondering around the woods in a fully buttoned up shirt and longer pants was just so funny, I could only assume that maybe he wanted to look good while slaughtering the innocent. The look and feel of this film was just great and very creepy, the effects were absolutely incredible for the time and imagine the look on the audience's faces when they were seeing this movie in the theater for the first time. The Wolf Man is a classic horror film that won't loose it's touch on chilling it's audience.9/10
Ah, Robin Hood, Robin Hood, Robin Hood. What can I say about this movie other than disappointment? I was so beyond excited to see this movie, I love the story of Robin Hood. I've seen the movies, read the books, seen documentaries on this incredible legend. Well, who knows what's true as there are so many stories. The more famous movies stay with the common story: Robin Hood steals from rich, gives to poor, falls in love with Maid Marian, stops the evil Sheriff and Prince John and saves the day. Simple enough story, but it always brings in the adventure. So I can understand with this Robin Hood, kudos for trying something different, but this was definitely the more boring story of Robin Hood. It's not even really about him, but more so how he became Robin Hood. Also I don't think Ridley Scott had any problem with ripping off any other war movie, I saw Saving Private Ryan, Brave Heart and Gladiator in this film. The editing was way out of control and was too much on the eyes. The story is also confusing as heck to the point where I really didn't care any more and started to doze off.Robin Longstride is a common archer in the Third Crusade. Following the death of Richard the Lionheart in battle, Robin and three other common soldiers attempt to return to their homeland, having spent ten years fighting abroad. Along the way they come across an ambush of the King's guard by Sir Godfrey; an English Knight with French lineage. The King of France had ordered Sir Godfrey to assassinate Richard. Having discovered the King is already slain Sir Godfrey is chased off by the arrival of Robin and his companions. Aiming to return to England safely and richer in pocket than they left it Robin and his men steal the armour of the slain Knights and head for the English ships on the coast under the guise of noblemen. Upon arrival in England, Robin is chosen to inform the Royal family of the King's death and witnesses the crowning of King John. The arrogant King John shows no remorse to his poor Kingdom and demands harsh taxes to be collected, sending Sir Godfrey off to the North with the task of raising revenue. Despite King John's jealousy, he asks Robin for his help in defeating the French and saving England.I don't mean to be so down on the film, it was just too long, too over written and missed the whole point of a Robin Hood story. This felt like a war film that just happened to have the character Robin Hood in it. I still can't see Russell Crowe as Robin Hood honestly, I think the crown will always be held by Errol Flynn, he had a sense of adventure, humor and everyone adored him. I even found Cary Elwes to be a more believable Robin Hood; heck, Kevin Costner was a more likable Robin Hood, I don't care what people say about his accent. Plus, Sheriff of Nottingham was pretty much non existent and was not threatening in any way. The only actor who seemed to put any effort into his part was Oscar Isaac who played Prince John, he brought everything he had to the script and played the part very well. Even Max Von Sydow seemed bored with his role, he must have owed Ridley Scott a favor. I want you to understand, I really wanted to love this movie, I was so excited for it and was really rooting for it to knock all the other Robin Hood's out of the park, but it failed in a lot of ways. I hope that if they do a sequel, they work on the script, stick with the safety net: Robin Hood is a good guy who helps the helpless, saves the girl and rocks Nottingham. Cheesy, simple, but always classic and fun.3/10
I work at a movie theater and we got Pineapple Express, to be honest with it's R rating, I was expecting as big of a turn out as we had, one thing that I noticed was the crowd though, how similar they looked, also their behavior was the same as well. It was kind of disturbing, but they came out of the movie theater screaming in laughter, now I'm assuming they are pot heads, no offense to those who are, but I was still curious if this movie was seriously funny to those who were either stoned or not stoned. I saw this movie, of course I'm not a pot head, so I saw it sober, thought this was a very funny movie, but I wasn't too impressed. I know I'm going to get a lot of haters for this comment, but seriously, there wasn't anything too special about this movie that would make it stand out as a stoner comedy, not to mention a production of the Apatow group, the story has no likable characters and is pretty predictable.Dale Denton is a process server, he is 25 years old, has an 18 year old girlfriend in high school, and is a pot head. After witnessing a murder, Dale runs to his pot dealer, Saul, who unknowingly is connected to the murder in some way. But Saul helps Dale try to escape the murderers who are after him, discovering how they have already gotten to his drug dealer and are easily getting closer to him and Dale. Together they try to out run and figure a way to get out of this situation with good old fashioned Commando style action.Now I don't want people to get me wrong, this is still a very funny comedy, has some really great moments like any other Apatow production. I seriously could not stop laughing when Saul was driving with Dale trying to escape the police and he can't see through the windshield, so Dale suggests to be like the action movie scenario where they normally push out the window like it's nothing, and instead Saul gets his foot caught in the window while driving. There are some other really good moments, but I don't want to spoil the movie for you. Pineapple Express is worth the look for sure, but it didn't really stand out for me like other comedies. I just think the hype is giving this movie too much credit, I'd say pay for the matinée.7/10
Yesterday I was shopping at Target and they had a bunch of movies for seven fifty, Robots was one of them. I never saw the movie before, but I figured it's just a couple more bucks then if I rented it, so I bought it and watched it last night. I have to say that I'm glad I bought it because I really enjoyed it, this was a fun animated movie that got over looked in 2005. It had great actors for the voices, Mel Brooks couldn't have been a more perfect choice, the whole look of the movie is absolutely cool to look at, and the story was extremely original. This is a great film to watch for yourself or with the family.Rodney is a common robot with his poor parents, but he has big city dreams to meet Bigweld, the biggest robot of all time, he is the inventor who makes sure that every robot is taken care of. Rodney goes to the big city to meet Bigweld and become an inventor himself, but ends up meeting several robots who are nobody's including Fender, his new best friend. They discover that an evil robot who has taken over Bigweld's factory is planning on destroying all the old bots who can't afford to upgrade, so pretty much that's the whole town. But Rodney and his friends are dedicated to making sure that everyone can be safe as an old bot.Robots is a very imaginative movie with a very creative story and look. I was really impressed with this movie and would highly recommend it. It has very funny moments for both the kids and the adults, so it works for a family movie very well. Robin Williams did a terrific job as Vender, he was just a great addition and brought fun comedic relief. But the whole cast sounded like they had a lot of fun with this movie. This is a fun film to watch and I think anyone could enjoy it, so grab the popcorn, because you're gonna have fun.7/10
10 years ago, I remember seeing the opening of the biggest film that year, Spider-Man. I'm not kidding, I remember everything about that opening. It was the first time I ever saw teenagers bring comic books to the movie doing comparison notes. I remember it being so crowded and crazy. But I also remember loving the movie and I still watch it today. So when I heard that they were rebooting the franchise, I was kind of curious why they were rebooting so soon. But after seeing the trailers, I still wanted to see the movie. I'm not a crazy comic book fan or anything, I just like super-hero movies. So this review is from the movie-goer, not the comic book advocate. I really did like The Amazing Spider-Man, this was a great pick up from Spider-Man 3. It was trying to touch the territory of being like Batman Begins, taking the character and story a little more seriously without the overage of cheesy one-liners and costumes. What worked well for this movie was the cast and story.Young Peter Parker's dad, Richard, gathers up hidden documents, and Peter's parents take him to the home of his Aunt May and Uncle Ben, then mysteriously disappear. Years later, a teenage Peter attends high school, where he has caught the eye of Gwen Stacy. At home, Peter finds Richard's papers, and learns his father worked with fellow scientist Dr. Curt Connors at Oscorp. Faking his way into Oscorp as one of a group of high-school interns, Peter sneaks into a lab where a "biocable" is being created from genetically modified spiders, one of which bites him. On the subway ride home, he is shocked to find strange spider-like abilities manifesting. After studying Richard's papers, he visits the one-armed Connors at home, reveals he is Richard Parker's son, and gives Connors his father's "decay rate algorithm", the missing piece in Connors' experiments on regenerating limbs based on lizard DNA. Connors is being pressured by his superior, Dr. Ratha, to devise a cure for the dying, unseen head of Oscorp, Norman Osborn. He one night does the experiment forcing to him to become a giant lizard and wants to seek revenge on those who wronged him, but Peter with his new powers will try to stop him and save the city.Did I need to see why Peter becomes Spider-Man again? Not really. Also for "nerds", our two leads Andrew Garfield and Emma Stone are extremely good looking people. But I'll buy into it and just have fun. I liked the explanation given a little better than the first on why Peter feels the need to be Spider-Man. Also, does Dennis Leary always have to be the downer in almost all his movies? I mean his last lines in the film*Spoiler Alert!!*, he's dying in Peter's arms and tells Peter to leave Gwen alone, that's the finest girl he's ever going to get and he's going to listen to that?! I was telling my fiancé, if I were Peter, I would've hit Dennis before he died and said "oh, how sad you're dying, just go in peace" and play it off like it's sad or just screamed after he tells Peter not to see Gwen any more "Why won't you die?!". Poor Peter, go get yourself a hottie, Dennis's character was a jerk anyways. I digress; the only thing I have to say that was missing from this one compared to the first Spider-Man, it doesn't quite have Raimi's heart. There are a few flaws with the movie, but all the movies are flawed in one way or another. I think this was a fine addition to the franchise and highly recommend The Amazing Spider-Man, it was a lot of fun.8/10
I have heard non stop about how awesome Being John Malkovich is, basically I think that's why I had stayed clear of this film. I thought it might not live up to my expectations, due to the fact that I absolutely love the actor John Malkovich, I was afraid that this film might damage his name for me. But I decided to give this film a chance when my mom said that she liked it very much and to give it a shot, so I watched it with an "open mind"... lol... get it? Eh, well, I got a pleasant surprise when I watched this film, it was fantastic. It was the perfect cast, amazing settings, incredible camera work, and not to mention a very unique story that was so interesting to watch.Craig and Lotte Schwartz are a ratty looking married couple. Craig is a struggling puppeteer and Lotte takes care of sick animals at their house. She asks Craig to get a real job, he ends up getting one, in this building as a filer where the ceiling is less than 6 feet tall. Everyone acts very strange, but he meets a beautiful young woman, Maxine, a player of her league. He becomes obsessed with her, well, everyone seems to naturally love her. Craig one day finds a portal that leads to the mind of actor John Malkovich and exploits it with Maxine. But Lotte becomes more obsessed with the portal and discovers a deeper side with it followed by a group of people.Being John Malkovich I would have to agree that it is one of those movies you just have to see. It's so strange but works on so many levels. The cast was just beyond perfect, I mean, you can barely recognize some of them, especially Cameron Diaz, what a role breaker. Her and John Cusack were absolutely great in the scene where they are fighting over Maxine and who truly loves her more. Well, the whole cast was great and I would highly recommend this film, it's great entertainment.9/10
I don't remember the first babe very well, it's been a while since I've seen it, but over all I remember loving it as a kid. So I think that's what struck me to see the sequel. Figured I should give it a shot. I watched it a couple days ago and I have to say that for a kid's movie this was a very strange one, it just seemed a little dark. I mean, pigs in leather, scary and odd looking people, apes getting dressed before escaping a science lab, I mean, maybe it's just me, but it just seriously disturbed me.Babe has come back from the fair winning the sheep herding award. But the boss gets injured and cannot do any work on the farm, so when no work gets done, the bank is after the farm and is about to take it away from him and his wife. But when his wife finds out that Babe could win a prize that would be worth good money to save the barn. But Babe and the wife quickly get separated in the city of New York. Babe finds a group of show apes that try to help him get money, but it gets difficult when the ape's owner passes away. Now the animals are on their own and continue to try to help Babe.Babe: Pig in the City is over all not a bad film at all, but it's just a very strange film for children. Not to mention darker compared to the first film. I think most of the reviewers agree, this was a 360 compared to the first film. But if you wanna check it out, go ahead, but I don't think it's a necessary watch if you enjoyed the first one. It was just weird seeing Babe in the leather collar, it was pretty disturbing.6/10
I hate a lot of romantic comedies, I just want to say that right now, the movies like 27 Dresses and Fool's Gold where it's just the same predictable plot each time with different characters. When I first saw the teaser trailer for Run Fatboy Run, I couldn't stop laughing. Simon Pegg is seriously one of today's funniest actors and his comedies are always a blast to watch. So I got to see Run Fatboy Run this weekend and I was a little disappointed, while I was dying of laughter, the plot was a little weak. Now the jokes and script are very clever and the story is very heart warming, while it's predictable and sloppy in some area's. Like Hank Azaria's character, Whit, how he was this perfect boyfriend in the beginning, and then he just turns into a total jerk out of no where in the end, it just felt rushed and that the writers could've left him as a good guy, but instead turned into into a typical plot. But I have to say that I was impressed with Simon Pegg who made a despicable character very likable and held the story well.Dennis is a man who has never finished anything in life, he's unfit, has a lousy job, smokes, drinks, and also left his pregnant fiancée at the alter. When he realizes what he's lost, he wants his son and ex fiancée, Libby, back, but she's already got a boyfriend, Whit. Whit runs marathon's for charities, so when Dennis finds this out, he wants to impress Libby, so he decides to run the marathon too. But it's going to take a lot of Rocky like working out in order to run this 26 mile ordeal.Now I loved Run Fatboy Run, it has some incredibly funny scenes like Dennis's first running scene with those little blue speedo shorts, and him getting the rash from it and the way he handles it. Run Fatboy Run is a feel good movie that I'm sure will make you laugh and just have a good time as well. There are some minor flaws here and there though, like I said, it gets predictable and the characters are just let go and the ending is sped through a little bit. But I do recommend this movie if you get a chance, I think Simon Pegg and Dylan Moran were absolutely fun together in this movie and make it very enjoyable.7/10
Last year one of the big films that I think was a surprise hit was called Drive. I was always curious to see this movie, but unfortunately missed it. From what I had heard it was a must see so I rented it and absolutely fell in love with it. Reminding me a bit of the old action movies from the 70's and 80's with those great old cars that could take one heck of a beating with the anti-hero who wins your heart over and then we get a million sequels trying to out bank the previous film. Anyways, Drive offers something different, a new cult classic for a generation that is a bit ADD, this gives you something exciting or great to watch each second. I can't tell you what an amazing opening chase scene they choreographed, not to mention some very exciting action scenes. Ryan Gosling continues to be a star on the high rise proving his leading man qualities and to be an action star, he just steals the show as Driver.Driver lives in a low-rent apartment building and works as a mechanic, stuntman and getaway driver. The Driver works anonymously, never for the same people twice, and allows them only five minutes to do their business. He meets his neighbor Irene in the apartment building elevator and later helps her and her young son when Irene has car trouble at a local market. Shannon owns the garage the Driver works at and arranges his other jobs. Shannon persuades the mobster Bernie Rose to purchase a stock car for the Driver to race after seeing the Driver's skill. Bernie's business partner is Nino, a Jewish mobster. But when Driver has been set up he realizes that not only does he have to protect himself but those he cares about most.The car chase scenes are so well put together, I haven't been this excited since Death Proof. I also loved how Driver's face in the first scene just stayed emotionless, he knows he's good and that no matter what how to out run the cops. He's a man with a mission who doesn't have anyone in his life, but when a woman and her son come into his, he will fight for them because they're worth it. He has a man, who's his boss, who is almost like his father figure and their relationship is not only believable but relatable for anyone. Bryan Cranston has come quite a way since Malcolm in the Middle, he does a great job and conveys such a likability to what could have been a bland and boring character. The bloodshed in the movie is absolutely insane, like I said, this reminds you a bit of a 70's action drive in movie. There's buckets of blood and tons of violence. I also loved having Ron Pearlman as this typical mobster who's terrifying to cross paths with but you can't forget that he's Jewish. What a great addition to the character. I think Drive was one of the better movies that came out of 2011, it has everything that you could want in an action movie. Action, romance, great soundtrack, cool cars and awesome chase scenes. Let's put it this way, I rented it, watched it, the next day I bought it, it was totally worth it.9/10
Flushed Away was one of the top movies I was looking forward to for the November releases. The trailer was just awesome playing E.L.O.'s Don't Bring Me Down and this movie looked like non stop laughs. Not to mention the great animation and terrific cast, like Hugh Jackman and Kate Winslet. While the animation was great and the movie had terrific laughs and fun moments, Flushed Away seemed like just another typical computer animation flick.Rody is an indoor pet rat that is pampered like crazy, he's used to his life of luxury. When his family goes away on a trip, a sewer rat gets into the house and kicks Rody out by flushing him down the toilet into the depths of a rat city just like London. But Rody wants to get back home so badly, he goes to a boat that can take him back, the captain of this boat is Rita, a frisky little rat who gives Rody a hard time and they make a deal that if she can get him back home, he'll get her some valuable jewels that she can use for her family. But when she takes a wire from The Toad, a mob toad boss, she thinks it's useless, but it's for a wall that will unleash all the toilet flushes onto the city and help The Toad build a new city of his baby toads.I will never deny, I had a good time watching Flushed Away, I laughed more than a few times, but I just wanted something a little more special, since there are so many computer animation flicks. If we have done away with the regular animation, why not do something great with the computer effects? It's just getting to be so typical, that's all. But I think the kids will definitely get a kick out of Flushed Away.6/10
Many actors have portrayed very famous legends ranging from Cate Blanchett as Katherine Hepburn to Gary Busey as Buddy Holly. The performance that had a lot of critics and people raving last year was Michelle William's portrayal of Marilyn Monroe. From the trailer, I was in awe, I never would have suspected Michelle Williams to play Marilyn Monroe, I always thought it would have been Scarlet Johansson. Which I heard she was offered the role but turned it down, wonder if she regrets it now? But I love Marilyn Monroe, she may not have been the world's greatest actress, but she had such charisma and charm when it came to film. You then read about her life and it's just an udder tragedy. You could understand why she had such a poor self image. Not to mention her team shoving pills down her throat every five seconds to "keep her calm", it was just very sad. But this movie isn't about Marilyn's life, but a week with a charming young man who didn't experience the sex symbol that was Marilyn Monroe but Norma Jean.Colin Clark travels to London to get a job on Laurence Olivier's next production. Olivier and his wife, Vivien Leigh show up and Vivien encourages Olivier to give Colin a job on his upcoming film The Prince and the Showgirl, starring Marilyn Monroe. The paparazzi find out about Marilyn's arrival and they gather around the plane when it lands. Marilyn brings her husband, her business partner and her acting coach with her. The crew and the others actors are in awe of Marilyn. Marilyn starts arriving later to the set and often forgets her lines, angering Olivier. However, actress Sybil praises Marilyn and defends her when Olivier tries to get her to apologize for holding the shoot up. Marilyn does not show up to the set following her husband's departure and she asks Colin to come to Parkside and they talk. The crew become captivated by Marilyn when she dances for a scene and her agent pulls Colin aside to tell him Marilyn breaks hearts and that she will break his too. He decides to ignore the warning and to enjoy his time with Marilyn as he falls deeply in love with the striking beauty.Michelle Williams does a great job and got Marilyn's mannerisms down. She doesn't portray Marilyn just as a poor soul but also how hard it was on the film makers who had to put up with her tardiness and how difficult she could be. It definitely was believable the awe she had over people and Michelle played that extremely well. Kenneth Brannagh as always pulls in a strong performance as Laurence Olivier. I love how he was so frustrated but so in love with Marilyn as well. Eddie Redmayne as Colin did a decent job, he's a good actor but his character is pretty basic so not as memorable. Even though I do think it's easier to say you had an affair with someone after they passed away is pretty easy, but who knows? Marilyn just loved to be loved. The film itself is charming and a great insight to what it was like to make films back in the day. You really feel like you were on the set with Marilyn and Laurence. This is an actor's film, it was the performances that really made this film something very special. I really did enjoy My Week With Marilyn, it's a wonderful film and I actually bought it the next day. I'm sure that the real actors that were portrayed in this film would be incredibly proud. The sets, the story, the make up, the costumes, everything really turned into beauty.9/10
I saw Gran Torino opening weekend and after hearing rave reviews, I was looking forward to it. After seeing it, I realized what people were excited about, it was Clint's performance, this is a man you do not want to mess with. He's the perfect good guy with a bad guy's lust for vengeance. I love his growls, he sounds like a great guard dog, I would love to just have him by my door if a salesman comes by to make that noise. I can't believe what a triple threat Clint is: he's a writer, director, and an actor, not to mention that he's great at all three of them. He presents Gran Torino with grace and style of an old man that society has forgotten about because of his bad mood not realizing that deep down, he's truly a good man.Walt Kowalski, a retired Polish American Ford automobile assembly line worker and a Korean War veteran, lives with his dog Daisy in a changing neighborhood which is dominated by immigrants. At the start of the movie, Walt is attending his wife's funeral, bristling at the shallow eulogy of young Father Janovich. Similarly, he has little patience with his two sons, Mitch and Steve, and their families, who show little regard for Walt's grief or the memory of their dead mother. Walt's sons see him as "always disappointed" with them and their families, unaware of their obnoxiousness. Walt's teenage Hmong neighbors, a shy Thao Vang Lor and his feisty sister Sue, live with their widowed mother and grandmother. The Hmong gang, at that point, tries to persuade Thao to join them. Thao's initiation is to steal Walt's prized car, a 1972 Gran Torino Sport. Walt interrupts the robbery, pointing a rifle in Thao's face and forcing him to flee. After a few days, Spider and his gang return. With Sue at his side, Thao manages to verbally confront them to no avail. The gang drags Thao off his porch in an attempt to assault him. His family tries desperately to fend off Spider and his cohorts. The conflict ends when Walt, who fought in the United States Army's 1st Cavalry Division, threatens the gang members with his M1 Garand rifle and orders them to get off his lawn. They leave the neighborhood, telling Walt to watch his back.After seeing Sue being harassed by three black teenagers, while her "date" cannot help her, Walt steps in to rescue her, confronting the teenagers and threatening them with a pistol. Sue gets to know Walt, and invites him to a family barbecue on his birthday, bringing him closer to her family, explaining Hmong culture and that during the Vietnam War they fought on "his" side. Sue, Thao, and their mother visit Walt the next day, with Thao's family forcing him to work for Walt for a week to atone for his attempted theft of the Gran Torino. Walt has Thao clean up the neighborhood until his debt is paid and shows Thao the ways of American men. Meanwhile, the Hmong gang keeps pressuring Thao to join them. But when he refuses, the Hmong gang goes too far in getting their revenge leading to Walt wanting more than punishment, he wants justice.I highly recommend Gran Torino if you get the chance to see it, it has terrific performances and a touching story. I'm really surprised that Clint didn't get more recognition for his strength in Walt, he became that character and I loved how he protected the family that he once hated. It was wonderful to see all these characters develop and grow together, they had great chemistry and made this movie into a great one. I think down the line, Gran Torino is going to be considered a classic, this is a terrific movie and deserves it's praise.9/10
I have heard pretty much nothing but bad things about Alexander, so I pretty much stayed away from it, but I noticed that it was sitting in my mom's movie collection and I just wanted to watch something new. I always like to give a movie a chance to see if I would enjoy it myself. Nope, I have to say most of the reviews on IMDb are correct, this is an over blown Ben-Hur wanna be. Not to mention, how in the heck did the casting director think that Angelina Jolie was perfect for Alexander's mother? Colin Ferrell, Colin Ferrell as Alexander?! Now I wanted to give this guy a chance, but seriously, Colin Ferrell?! Not to mention the strange film making, the constant story always twirling back into the question of Alexander's sexuality. I'm such a history buff, now if a movie isn't true to history, it does irritate me a little, but I just think, it's a movie, if it's entertaining, give it a break. Trust me, Alexander is just a bad movie and is an insult to one of the greatest warriors of our time.Based on the story of Alexander the Great, we see him grow as a boy who isn't accepted by his father, is admired by his mother, and is slowly learning the power of being a king, being a strong warrior. His father is murdered leaving him the throne and going into battle to conquer lands, own whoever he wants, make decisions that will effect his country, having to figure out who are his true friends, questioning his sexuality, discovering the true difficulty of being a good king to his people.I seriously had the neuce around my neck by the end of this film, I just couldn't believe how long it was, I don't mind long movies at all if they are worth your time and are very well put together but Alexander is just a mess. The film jumps time back and forth and gets you all confused. Not to mention, please, what the heck was with Angelina Jolie's accent?! Did she watch Bram Stroker's Dracula too much? Believe me, I love movies, I mean, I really love movies, I will always say if this movie is meant for a certain crowd, but trust me when I say that this just a plain bad movie, you'd expect better from Oliver Stone, but he went way over his head and really went overboard with Alexander.1/10
Man this movie seemed like it took such a long time to come out on DVD, it was driving me crazy. Unfortunately, I never got the opportunity to see this in the theaters, so I had to wait for the rental. Unfortunately, Hollywood Video was sold out so I had to buy the movie, but actually it was worth it, because this was such a fun movie. God bless the man who created that little squirrel who is chasing that nut, those scenes were just so cute and funny! The gang is back, but this time, their place is melting due to the global warming, their home is being destroyed so badly that they and their herd are moving to a place with more ice. On the way the Mammoth sees another mammoth with two possums, she thinks she's a possum as well. Of course the journey is a hard one, but the team tries to stick together as much as possible and there is one crazy squirrel that is causing a few problems for the ice.Ice Age: The Meltdown has great animation, a great cast, and just over all a fun story. I have to say that it's crazy though, the past 2 movies I saw had something to do with global warming, now this movie? I'm sensing a theme here this year with movies. :D Oh, well, just please watch this movie, I guarantee that you'll enjoy this movie if you enjoyed the first.8/10
It seems like on IMDb, a lot of people bash the newer Christmas movies, which in some ways I can understand, because most of the older movies could never ever be touched like A Christmas Story or It's A Wonderful Life, but I think we do need to be more open to these new family Christmas movies. I borrowed this movie from my friend and both her and I agree that it really wasn't all that bad. Although that it reminded me of another very bad 7th Heaven episode, I have to admit that I laughed a couple times, you have to just let up about these types of movies.The Krank's daughter, Blaire, has just gone away for the Peace Corps. and she will be away for a year, figuring it might be a good chance to think of only themselves, the parents decide to skip Christmas. But the Christmas loving neighborhood won't hear of it, they have their hearts set on getting the Kranks to love Christmas again and get all the decorations out along with the annual Chrismas Eve party they through. But they won't hear of it... until Blaire unexpectedly decides to come home for Christmas with a big surprise! Over all, I wouldn't say that this was a fantastic Christmas movie, but it wasn't a bad one at all. It had flaws, a lot of movies do, but we need to cut it a break. You have got to admit the botox scene with Tim was pretty funny, even if it was a little over the top. So, honestly, just let go and have fun, you can't take this type of movie seriously, otherwise, what's the point of watching it if you just expect bad? 5/10
Last year Paranormal Activity was released nation wide and became the new Blair Witch Project, it was a movie you just had to see because all you kept hearing was how scary it was. The trailer was pretty clever in only showing the audience's screams and members hiding under their coats and covering their eyes. I thought it was an extremely clever film and one of the best horror movies we have had in a while and I noticed others, either they loved it or they hated it. In my opinion as a film buff, it's what we don't see and our imagination that is most terrifying, but in this generation of internet, texting and TV we have a bunch of ADD people who need to see blood or monsters in order for that to scare them. Paranormal Activity was a huge hit at the box office and a sequel was immediately planned, which I didn't appreciate because now it's about the money. However I still decided to give the film a chance and see how the story continued and it actually wasn't as bad as I was expecting. Instead we get more of a prequel to the first film and it explains how Katie became haunted by the demon. This time the demon is haunting her sister and her new family in their beautiful home.In 2006, a "burglary" occurs at the home of Kristi and Dan. Every single room is completely trashed except for their infant son Hunter's bedroom. The only thing stolen is a necklace that Kristi's sister, Katie, had given her. Dan installs a number of security cameras throughout the house to watch over their son, Hunter. The family starts to hear noises and see items fall or move on their own. Martine, the family housekeeper and nanny, believes evil spirits are the cause and attempts to cleanse the house of "evil spirits," and Dan fires her after catching her burning sage. Katie and Kristi talk about being tormented by a demon or unknown spirit when they were children. Dan's daughter, Ali, begins investigating the mysterious happenings. She discovers that on occasion, a human can make a deal with a demon for wealth or power by forfeiting the life of their first-born son. She also realizes that until Hunter, there had not been a male child born in Kristi and Katie's family since the time of their great-great grandmother.What I liked about this film was the characters who were a bit more likable than the first film, they seemed so real to me. The family reacted exactly how most people would act towards finding out that they are being haunted by a demon. There are some genuinely creepy moments, one of the biggest being when Kristi is sitting in the kitchen and BAM(!!!) the cabinet doors fly open as she's trying to keep it together and trying to convince herself that it's not real. There are some laughable moments like when the demon keeps knocking the cooking pan off the rack and all I'm thinking is how bored is this demon that he just wants to more annoy Kristi vs. terrify her? I tell you though, clean freaks beware of this demon! My only other complaint being is that the effects were a little bit cheesy with the demon pulling Kristi out of her room. The first film seemed more realistic with the way the demon was behaving by dragging Katie out of bed. However I did like how the film ended and I think this was a fun addition to the Paranormal Activity story. I wouldn't mind if the sequels continued on other characters, but for now I think it's a good closure and we should leave it at that. I do recommend the movie for a fun scary night, it's always more effective when you're at home alone in the dark.7/10
I don't know if we could live in this world right now if you have not seen Shrek. I wasn't sure if I'd make it, because at the time that Shrek came out, I refused to see it. I wasn't into the computer animation, so I refused to see it, not to mention all the hype annoyed me. You know when a movie is over advertised, and sometimes that drives you more away than closer? That was my situation, but I'm glad I finally decided to give Shrek a chance.Shrek is an ogre who is feared by all the town people and prefers living his life solo, but when a annoying talking Donkey drops into his life, Donkey just kinda puts himself into Shrek's life. But when a circus drops onto Shrek's swampy home, he goes to the king, the king promises him his home back if he can go get Princess Fiona, his future bride. Shrek and Donkey do so, but Shrek ends up falling for the beautiful princess, but she has some hidden secrets of her own that just might help their love for each other.I'd have to say that I really did enjoy Shrek, it was a very sweet story with some funny jokes and terrific animation. I loved the homages to certain pop culture moments, like the Matrix, as much as it's over used joke wise, it really worked for the film and for kids who were a little too young when the Matrix came out. It's a great family film and I'd recommend it very much.8/10
I was kinda looking forward to Man of the Year, a couple girls at my work said it was a pretty good movie, and my mom said that she liked it, so I waited for the rental, and watched it last night. I have to honestly say that this movie was a huge disappointment. I barely made through it, because to be honest the beginning was pretty good and very well paced, but then it got too dark and not into the movie I saw from the trailer. It looked like a good comedy, then it turned into a very dark drama, that wasn't even that interesting, considering how many of these types of stories we've had about government conspiracy.Tom Dobbs is a very popular comedian with a top ranks show and has an act where many people would want him to get involved with politics, just because it seems like he has a good grip on what should be improved. So he does it, he runs for presidency, but many people doubt that he can win due to the fact that he's a comedian, but he does win! But Elenore Green who makes sure all the votes are accounted for tries to fix a computer glitch, but when the government tells her not to fix it, they try to get rid of her, and Tom soon realizes that this may not be the job he wanted.The acting was fine, the direction was OK, it was just the story that didn't work in my opinion. Like I said, it just turned into a dramatic change of genres, because if you see the trailer, you'd think it was a comedy, and when you start watching it, that's what you get, but then it just turns into a very dark and somewhat scary drama. I wouldn't really recommend this movie, it was one of the biggest disappointments I have seen so far.2/10
Breakfast At Tiffany's is a pretty famous movie, it's recommended in my movie books and is usually on a top film critic's list as a classic. Before Roman Holiday, I had never seen an Audrey Hepburn film, and I have to say that I am becoming more and more of a fan of her's. She was so beautiful and very talented, not to mention she seemed like a very classy and elegant lady. But the film itself was a pretty good one, this was the movie that made romantic comedy clichés, so that's why I let it go so easily. It seemed like this film had what a lot of romantic comedy films steal now a days.Holly is a huge socialite in her grand world, she finds happiness and joy in the jewelery store, Tiffany's. She is also being paid 100 dollars to visit a drug Mafia leader in prison to make his day. But things begin to change when a very handsome man moves in down stairs from her, Paul, but she calls him Fred since he looks like her brother. He's also in a similar situation where his "Decorator" is paying him for a good time. But together they find themselves helping one another and realizing they may need each other.Breakfast at Tiffany's is an elegant classic that I would rate up with Seven Year Itch starring Marilyn Monroe. It has great humor and sizzling romance that anyone could fall in love with. Audrey Hepburn took on a role which the character could have been neuritic and annoying, but she made Holly into someone every woman would like to be. Her and George were great together, I would highly recommend Breakfast at Tiffany's, it's a great classic.8/10
Ah, romantic comedies, hit or miss with me. But I tell you, it was Natalie Portman's year, like with most actresses coming up with an Oscar nod or win, they get the over exposure with romantic comedies around their performance of a lifetime. I was questioning if this looked like a good film or not, Ashton Kutcher is an alright leading man, definitely not in the same league as Natalie, but I was willing to give it a shot. No Strings Attached while does follow the same formula as most romantic comedies is actually better than most. I liked that for once the girl pushes away vs. the guy who is always insecure to get into a relationship, most girls in romantic comedies are portrayed as psycho stalkers who cannot live without their man, it's just insulting. Though predictable, the characters are likable and that's what makes this movie worth the watch.Emma and Adam are two friends who keep bumping into each other after years apart from each other. Emma and Adam meet again through their mutual friend Patrice, when Emma is a resident in a local hospital and Adam is the assistant on a High School Musical like show, with aspirations of becoming a script writer. Adam becomes distraught when he learns that his eccentric father is having a relationship with Adam's ex-girlfriend. Determined, Adam starts calling every woman in his cell phone. The next day, he wakes up after a drunken night to find out that he text-messaged Emma and came to the home she shares with some other residents. Emma leads Adam to her bedroom to retrieve his pants, when the two of them wind up having sex. Because Emma does not believe in love Emma proposes that they have casual sex with each other, setting some ground rules for each other to prevent their relationship from becoming too serious. At first things go well, but then Adam starts becoming jealous of the possibility of Emma being with another doctor. Although denying that he is jealous, Adam starts presenting her with gifts. Then when he starts to take her advice and tries to move on, then she starts to get bit by the jealousy bug as well.Like I said there are flaws, the ending does cop out a little bit I think and Ashton Kutcher's character is written a little too good to be true on the boyfriend level. But I have to admit these are very good looking people and if a guy had Natalie Portman I'm pretty sure he wouldn't want to let her go like girls wouldn't let go of Ashton, so I might be wrong on that level. Also Natalie's character really didn't need the cliché friends that every romantic comedy has, I mean if you're a doctor, are you honestly going to have 5 roommates? I can understand one roommate, but 5? But that's real nit picking and obnoxious, so I'll let that go, because I have to say that this was an enjoyable movie. Who said I can't like romantic comedies? Well I did, but No Strings Attached held it's own and I would recommend this if you're looking for a cute movie for the night.7/10
From the moment that I saw the trailer for The Hangover I knew I had to see this movie, I don't think I had laughed so hard watching a trailer in my life. But one thing I was kind of concerned about was how most movies just show the funny parts in the trailer and this would just be another "Old School" type of movie that would have no originality. I saw The Hangover this afternoon and I just can't believe how funny this movie was. The great thing about it as absurd as the story is, seriously, it's kind of realistic in some matter. I mean, who hasn't had a morning where they woke up from a night of drinking and just cannot remember one thing about the night before? This is a comedy mystery story that just gets funnier with each scene that is played due to the strong cast, great chemistry and a hilarious story.Doug is about to be married, so his friends: Stu, Phil, and Doug's soon to be brother-in-law Alan, take him to Las Vegas for a bachelor party. Stu's girlfriend is very controlling, thereby forcing Stu to lie to her about their destination. The guys get a suite at their hotel, then sneak on to the roof of the hotel and toast to the night ahead. Skipping forward to the next morning, the three groomsmen awake with no memory of the previous night. They find Doug missing, Stu missing a tooth, a tiger in the bathroom, and a baby in the closet. Initially they believe Doug to have gone out for breakfast, but soon worry when his cell phone has been left behind. They collect what memories they have to figure what happened to Doug. They go through the whole town of Vegas discovering they messed with the Chinese Mafia, Mike Tyson, marrying a stripper and it just keeps getting weirder and weirder.This is one of the funniest movies I have ever seen, I don't think I've laughed so hard consistently in a theater. Granted the movie has it's flaws, not everyone is going to fully get it or have the same sense of humor, but just to see Mike Tyson jam out to Phil Collin's "In The Air Tonite" is worth the ticket price alone. I don't think there isn't going to be one person I don't recommend this movie too. I think what did it for me was the cast, they just had such great chemistry together and really made the movie work and took us with on this crazy story. All the side characters were a great laugh too with Heather Graham as Stu's stripper wife and the Chinese Mafia leader Leslie Chow, who has the biggest "WTF?!" moment with getting out of their car trunk naked and beating the heck out of the boys. Trust me, you have to see this movie, if you liked Old School, you will love The Hangover! If you have ever had those mornings when you woke up and don't remember anything, this is the movie for you.9/10
I didn't know what to expect out of Music and Lyrics, from the trailer, it just looked like a rental where you might enjoy it, but it looked a little too cheesy. But I rented it recently and watched it, it was actually a pretty cute movie that over all I have to say that I was impressed with. Hugh and Drew were just absolutely adorable together and the story was so sweet, they really made it work. Because it could have been over the top cheesy, but due to a great director and these two terrific actors, you'll find yourself enjoying it.Alex Fletcher, he was huge in the 80's with his mega boy band phenomenon, PoP! But now in 2007, there's no room for him, he's a has been. But there is a new hot artist who loves him, Cora Corman, she wants him to write a song and sing it with her. This is the chance for him to get back onto the scene instead of constantly singing at small fairs and high school reunions. A girl, Sophie, who is taking care of his plants starts to sing a little with Alex, and he realizes she's his ticket to a hit song. Together they come up with a great duet and find themselves loving each other. But Alex may have to sacrifice certain things if he wants to be back on top.Despite the fact that it is predictable in some ways, the story is a romantic one that I'm sure anyone could enjoy. It has good clean humor, which was a pleasant surprise for once, I absolutely loved Kirsten Johnston's character, Sophie's sister, she was so funny. She delivered that line "Gary! I'm going out!" so perfectly, it got a great laugh from me and my mom. I would recommend this for an afternoon movie, I think you'll like it.7/10
The Taking of Pelham 1 2 3, from the minute I saw the trailer, this looked like it was going to be such an exciting thriller. We have two great actors in the leads: John Travolta and Dezel Washington. Where could you go wrong with that? So my boyfriend and I saw this movie a couple nights ago and had a great time. The movie was intense and provided very good action BUT there is a huge but the film just fell flat at the end. The first and second act are extremely entertaining and beyond intense, two power house actors pulling in very decent performances, had great chemistry and did a good job with the script they were given. But what the heck was with the ending? We shift into this Action 101 book of clichés list and was a complete let down. As a movie, The Taking of Pelham 1 2 3 is certainly entertaining, but when it comes to being realistic, yeah, it's pretty bad.Four heavily armed men, led by a man who calls himself "Ryder," board a New York City subway 6 train, then proceed to take control of the train. Meanwhile, MTA dispatcher, Walter Garber, is assigned to the Rail Control Center due to an ongoing investigation that he took a bribe to recommend a Japanese car manufacturer for the next subway car contract. The group then uncouple the front car from the rest of the train and hold the passengers of that car hostage. Ryder and the hijackers settle down on the front car, demanding $10 million dollars in ransom money to be paid within the next 60 minutes. For each minute past the deadline, one passenger aboard his car will be killed. Garber and Ryder exchange conversations though the microphone, Garber agrees to have the city pay Ryder the $10 million ransom. Lt. Camonetti enters RCC, and Garber's boss, who has a rocky relationship with Garber, orders Garber to leave the premises. Camonetti takes over the hostage negotiations, infuriating Ryder who demands that Garber be put back on the mic and that he will speak only to Garber. Beginning a very award friendship as the clock ticks down to get the money for the hostages.Over all I would recommend this for a matinée show or just a rental, it's nothing I would say to rush out and see. It's still a decent enough movie that I'm shocked John Travolta actually made a good choice in taking. He's a great villain when he wants to be and he proved that in Face/Off. Denzel also did a great job as this poor man who just coincidentally was having an average day and now all of a sudden has the added pressure of having lives depend on him. But like I said there are some major flaws that came with this film as well, there were unnecessary moments like what was with the kid and his computer? It had nothing really to do with the story and wasn't that vital. The nice army black man that jumped in front of the gun to protect the kid, the kid's mother talks to him before, but turned out to be unnecessary. Still as silly as these flaws are, it's still a fun movie to watch, I'm glad I checked it out.6/10
Gosh, I don't know how many times I studied this play and performed it in high school, not to mention how many television shows had an episode that was inspired by 12 Angry Men. It was always a great drama because of the raw human emotions that were so true and remain timeless, this play will never be dated. I couldn't wait to see this movie when I saw it at the video store and it was the first movie I slipped into the DVD player. First off, I was incredibly impressed with the credits, we not only had Henry Fonda, we had Lee J. Cobb in the cast! This movie was so well performed and such a treasure, god, I couldn't ever say any words to justify it. I've done this a million times, but here is another summary of what 12 Angry Men is all about.12 jurors are about to make a decision about a murder case, over all it seems like an open and shut case with tons of evidence that would make any good man look guilty, an 18 year old boy is about to be put to death if convicted. 11 of the men vote guilty, only one vote holds them back and they have to discuss the trial once again due to one vote being not guilty. Jurour #8 refuses to just jump to conclusions and brings up incredible possibilities that can always make a man think of "reasonable doubts", one by one the jurors begin to see the points he is making, except for one stubborn #3 who would rather just pull the switch to the chair himself.12 Angry Men is a timeless tale that could either be told very badly, i.e. 7th Heaven, or incredibly well and bring out terrific performances like Henry and Lee did. Actually, the whole cast was terrific, there wasn't a performance that was off key, movies like this are so needed in Hollywood today, it was so simple, but added so much for a 30 minute play. Please, if you have any taste, you will truly enjoy 12 Angry Men and have a great appreciation for it! 10/10
It's been 15 years since a classic new slasher film came out. Back in the day Wes Craven had brought us Freddy Krueger, he wasn't interested in the rest of the series except for when he brought the last in the series with New Nightmare intending for Freddy to be dead once and for all. However he couldn't stay away from the slasher series for too long because we were brought into a new nightmare with Scream, where Jaws made you afraid of the water, Scream made you get caller ID. Scream was a major hit and I remember seeing it for the first time at 11 and being scared out of my wits. Then the sequels came, not as scary, but the second one was entertaining, while the third one was just plain yuck. They intended to keep it as a trilogy, but the fans were "screaming" for a new movie, Wes and Kevin Williamson decided to give us what we wanted with a new Scream movie with familiar faces and some fresh new ones as well.On the fifteenth anniversary of the Woodsboro massacre, high school students Jenny and Marnie are attacked and brutally killed by a new Ghostface. The following day, Sidney Prescott returns to Woodsboro to promote her new book and becomes a suspect in the murders, with evidence in her rental car, forced by Dewey Riley to stay in Woodsboro until the crime is solved. While in town, she reconnects with her aunt Kate and cousin Jill. At night the attacks continue, taking the life of Jill's friend Olivia and Sidney's publicist. Ghostface is after Sydney and everyone she loves once again calling those who can either outwit him or try to outrun him, but as we've seen 4 times before it's not as easy as the I Know What You Did Last Summer days.I had a great laugh at the end because my friends and I made a ten dollar bet who would guess the killer or killers first and I won, they said that I should have been disqualified since I've seen too many horror films. Honestly, if you've seen the Scream films, it's not that hard to figure out, but you'll have to see for yourself. As for the movie, it's honestly alright, I was expecting a bit more. I don't know if the cast dried out a little bit or maybe because so many people copied off of Scream after it's release that we're now just too used to this plot. But I still think it was worth the watch, the beginning got a little annoying but over all the film picked up. But I gotta tell you, I am starting to feel really bad for Sydney Prescott, the poor girl could never keep a friend with the luck that she, Dewey and Gale have. Who would have thought that a killer could come after them 4 times now? But I do recommend definitely for the fans, it's worth the watch, however I think we should just quit while we're ahead.6/10
A couple of years ago during the summer time Kung Fu Panda came out, it was a cute film with a very predictable story. I liked it over all, but I couldn't get into the voices as much and also the story had been done to death. The overweight goofy outcast wants to be with the cool group, he finds out he can but doubts himself but gets with the group when he discovers who he is. The sequel I was thinking I could just wait for the rental which I did and I have to say that I'm disappointed in myself that I didn't see it in the theater. Kung Fu Panda 2 is very original and has some amazing characters as well as some very beautiful animation.Lord Shen, heir of the peacock clan that ruled Gongmen City in ancient China, sought to harness the power of fireworks as a weapon with which to rule the entire country. When he learned from the court's goat soothsayer that "a warrior of black-and-white" would one day defeat him, Shen assumed she was referring to a panda and exterminated much of the panda population to avert the prophecy. Shen's parents were horrified at this atrocity and exiled Shen, who swore revenge. Thirty years later, Po is living his dream as the Dragon Warrior, protecting the Valley of Peace alongside his friends and fellow kung fu masters, the Furious Five, but is told by Master Shifu that he has yet to achieve inner peace. While fighting off a pack of wolf bandits who have been stealing refined metal for Lord Shen, Po is distracted by a symbol on the head wolf's armor, which causes Po to have a flashback of his mother and allows the wolves to escape. The group realizes they must stop Shen from taking over China, but there's more to the story of Po and his parents that Shen knows about and it becomes very personal.One of the things I loved about this movie was the villain, Shen. He wasn't just a typical bad guy who really had no motive to be bad, but his parents had banned him from his home when they realized that he was bad. You can see the pain I his eyes when they are mentioned around him and could really understand his pain. Plus the animation on him was just beautiful, being a peacock he has some really great weapons with the knives as feathers. Po, despite Jack Black's voice still being a distraction, was really wonderful in the film as well and gives some great laughs. Although there were some moments where I wished they toned down the slap stick a little bit. There were some moments where silence would have worked better to make this a perfect film.While the film has little flaws here and there, this was still a terrific film just on the story alone. The characters are all likable and the message of the film is very beautiful. To find an inner peace with yourself is very hard, but to let kids know that it's alright to let go of anger was a wonderful message. I loved the way the characters were animated and the fight scenes were just exciting and kept you on the edge of your seat. I would recommend Kung Fu Panda 2, it definitely was what the first film was missing and was what it should have been the first time around. This was a big step up and if they make a third film going in this direction, I'll be the first in line buying a ticket.9/10
I didn't have much interest in seeing Vacancy, but I heard terrific things about it over the weekend, and my boyfriend and I saw it last night, but the funny thing was, I know everything that was going to happen next because of the Vacancy trailer. I mean I was like "ok, this is the part where they find the underground hole the killers used to get to their room", it was that predictable. While I would admit that it was a good thriller, the trailer just ruined the movie for me. Not to mention that the ending was predictable and just ended too quickly and was just so off-hand.Amy and David are coming back from a party, they are having a troubled marriage from a tragedy involving their son. But when the car breaks down, they pull into a garage, and a man helps them but the car breaks down again, they head back to the garage to learn that the guy is gone and they have to stay in a cheap and filthy motel. But things quickly get scary when David finds a tape that contains people being brutally murdered in their hotel room! Huge noises happen and all of a sudden the killers are after them! They have to live a night of horror and try to survive what could happen to them! Vacancy is a great thriller, I will always admit, it was scary at times, but like I said, the trailer just reveled too much and I was a little disappointed, but over all I would recommend it for a scary night. But jus to warn you, there are some pretty stupid people in this movie, like the way the characters acted and responded to things, it makes you wonder if they should have been killed. :P LOL, but still go ahead and have fun; and a word to the trailer editor, I advise, please don't reveal the best parts of the movie in your next trailer, because otherwise you might just blow an entire movie! 6/10
A lot of hype got me somewhat interested in this movie, even though I don't appreciate it, I still figure that most audiences can't be wrong. Now I use the word "most" very loosely because I think that most people see the film in a theater first with an audience and admitingly while in a movie theater you want to have a good time and seeing your friends or family laughing influences you just as easily. But I rented this one because I figured if it's that good, I'm sure I'll enjoy it at home just the same, only not so much with my experience. The film certainly isn't bad, but it isn't that good either, I've seen this plot way too much: normal girl falls for guy and finds out he's a former CIA agent and now her life depends on him, blah blah blah. The thing that could have saved this movie big time was the cast and about 70% of the cast is perfect. I would say that Bruce Willis, John Malovich, Helen Mirren and Brian Cox were perfectly cast, but Morgan Freeman's talent was a waste as he's not really apart of the movie so much so that role could have had a less known actor who needs a break. Also Mary Louise Parker who started off as one of the main characters quickly gets the cut off after we meet the rest of the cast and she looks way too young to be the love interest of Bruce Willis even though he's only 10 years her senior. But why would they loose track of the main character? Because they just didn't know where to go with the story.Frank Moses, a former CIA agent, is now living a quiet life in retirement. However, he begins to feel lonely and often chats on the phone with Sarah, a customer service agent working for Frank's pension office in Kansas City. His life is disrupted when a hit squad raids his house in the middle of the night. Frank kills the assassins and, knowing they would have tapped his phone, goes to Kansas City to protect Sarah. She becomes Frank's reluctant companion while he tries to find out who is trying to kill him, and track down his old black ops team for help. Frank first goes to find his mentor Joe, who tells him that the hit squad Frank killed were also responsible for the murder of a news reporter. They then track down Marvin Boggs, a paranoid conspiracy theorist, to provide more information. Marvin tells them that the names on the list are all connected to a secret mission in Guatemala. With the help of Russian secret agent Ivan Simanov, Frank and Sarah infiltrate the CIA headquarters to steal the file and find out more of who is setting the old team up and why.My main thing is that the film relied too much on it's humor. I loved John Malkovich and it's great to see him in a great comeback performance like this one and he pulled in the comic relief, that should have been it. The whole "senior citizen" joke got old really fast as again we've seen it before. Karl Urban's character started off interesting because he's kept a mystery but then we learn about his family and all of a sudden he's a good guy and becomes bland and predictable. I feel bad because the film isn't bad by any means, there are some great moments like John Malkovich thinking that this lady is a spy randomly and seeing how paranoid he is was too funny. Helen Mirren with a machine gun was also very awesome, though she should have done it dressed as Queen Elizabeth, that would have made it more funny. This movie is exactly what I did, a rental, it wasn't anything special but is a good afternoon's movie. It just could have been a lot more.6/10
My best friend got to see Reign Over Me in the movie theater this year and she told me that it wasn't that good and that it was more of a rental than the movie ticket, so I decided to wait. But it was released on DVD the other day and I watched it tonite with my mom and I have to say that Adam Sandler has absolutely surprised me with his moving performance in this movie. I think this was a great movie, despite how tender the subject was, the performances and story was breath taking. It deals with the aftermath of September 11th, the family of the victims, and just how to "properly" grieve. The movie is shot beautifully and handled with careful precaution on what could've been considered controversial. Adam and Don were perfect together and really clicked, the rest of the cast did an exceptional job of keeping up with the story.Basically, Allan is a successful dentist, and bumps into his old college roommate, Charlie, who lost his wife and daughters in one of the planes that hit the world trade center on September 11th, 2001. He's completely abandoned the world and doesn't know how to accept his life now, he pretends with Allan as if they have to get to know each other all over again. Allan wants to help him so badly but has new problems when a woman slaps a falsely accused sexual harassment law suit on his hands and his wife is loosing touch with him. But together they teach each other how to love life once again and be alive.Reign Over Me is an incredibly moving film that I will not forget. I'm not sure if I could watch it, I was crying like crazy during the scene between Adam and Don where Charlie finally tells Allan about his family and what it was like to loose them, Adam's performance was flawless and really deserves a nomination for this movie. I'm not kidding, he has developed so well into a fine actor, he and the rest of the cast made this into one of the most moving drama's of the year. I highly recommend this film, I can't believe my friend didn't like it, but then again, she claims she's an "action" type of girl, sigh.9/10
When I saw the trailer for Hot Rod last year, it threw me off a whole lot, I wasn't sure what to expect, it looked kind of lame to be honest. But I decided to go ahead and rent it, just give it a chance, so I watched it this morning and this was one of the more off beat comedies I have seen since Walk Hard earlier this year. Now off beat comedies can go either way, either it's going to be funny as heck or just plain awful and something that nobody will get. Now I'm kind of stuck in between, because Hot Rod has some genuinely funny moments that will just make you loose your breath from laughing so hard, but then there are some moments like the "Cool Beans" scene that you go "ooooooook", and have no idea what you just saw. But one thing I always like in a film is if the cast looked like they took the film for what it was and just had fun, and that's what made the story funny.Rod is a young inspiring stunt man who constantly fails at jumping, his family, friends, even the whole community thinks he's a joke. But he's got something bigger going on, his step dad won't stop treating him like a punching bag, so Rod has promised that one day he'll kick his step dad's butt. But when his step dad needs a heart transplant, it'll cost fifty thousand dollars, so Rod and his friends decide to raise the money by Rod's stunts so they can give Rod's step dad the heart transplant and so Rod can finally kick his step dad's butt.Hot Rod, I'm not sure I'd recommend it so fast to someone, while it has some funny moments, there are things that are just so strange and felt like they were written by a twelve year old at times. I didn't take the movie seriously, so I'm not just being uptight about it. But this movie was good for what it was, I have to admit there were some just hilarious scenes, I always loved it when Rod came up to his dying step father and told him that he was going to punch him in the face, I don't know, maybe it's the way he said it, but believe me, it's so funny. This is a movie only certain people are going to get, so I'm just going to say that you'll have to see it for yourself.6/10
I was so extremely excited about seeing Final Destination 3, especially since I loved the first and the second. Also, how cool is it that there is a roller coaster death scene? I go to amusement parks every year, so this was going to be a cool story for me. Unfortunately, the third installment just turned into another corny horror movie that turned completely predictable and the lead actress annoyed me, that's not a good thing.Wendy is the new girl with the golden gift of seeing her wonderful but not so wonderful future. She and her fellow seniors are on a trip at an amusement park, she has a vision that the ride she's about to go on is going to horribly break and kill everyone. Her and several others get off the ride and of course, the ride breaks killing her boyfriend and her best friend. And if you've seen the first two, you can guess where this is going, one by one who was supposed to be killed is going to get killed tragically.While the deaths were still pretty cool, I wasn't as shocked as the first two Final Destination films. This film turned into MTV or at least a clearasol commercial with these corny actors. Not to mention that I found the 9/11 reference completely tacky and insulting, it was just plain unnecessary. So, that took off a couple of points that could've earned the movie a 7, but now it's a...6/10
Ever see a movie called Idiocracy? A film that takes place in the future as we see what our society has become due to the lack of intelligence in film, television, doctor's direction in finding a cure for baldness vs. the cure for cancer, etc. I think Mike Judge had the show Jackass in mind when he wrote that film. Jackass was a show started on MTV that I don't know how, just became very popular. Apparently men hitting their nuts with random objects is very entertaining. But the other day I wanted to watch a movie and my boyfriend brought up Jackass, I decided to go for it, what do I have to loose? Now I knew what I signed up for, after all just look at the title. It starts with the opening credits as the guys are rolling into the set on a shopping cart with epic battle music playing which I have to admit I got a good kick out of, so I thought how bad could this be? Then they start getting hit with cement and are hitting and kicking each other, but I stood strong and held on tight for this movie and God help me, I survived.Johnny Knoxville and his group of friends get together to pull a bunch of gags that will make you gag. Just imagine a bunch of drunk frat boys that have too much time on their hands and can only think of their gentiles and behinds as the only answer to any prank.I tried, I really tried, I'm one of the most liberal people you will ever meet. My opinion is as long as it's not hurting anyone, let people do what they want. But I honestly just couldn't find this funny. The only thing I laughed at and felt so dirty laughing was when Johnny and his friends dressed up as the elderly and do random things like shoplift and go running down a hill in their wheel chair. Seeing the people's reactions was just priceless. Party Guy is kind of funny too, even though I had a bad experience a few years ago with someone who dressed up as Party Guy at a Halloween party. One of those things where it's funny to see it happen to someone else as long as it's not you. With Johnny and his friends just laughing maniacally at everything bad that happens to their friends, I just found it more annoying. I feel so bad and uptight saying this, but I have to say that nothing about this movie was enjoyable or entertaining. When I was watching it with my boyfriend, he wasn't laughing, I thought it was because I wasn't, but he said he couldn't laugh, that he found it funny in high school, but not so much now. I think maybe Jackass was just a trend that led up to those wonderful videos on youtube.People who harm animals or themselves for the sake of laughs is just stupid. I know this is the title, but it worries me that people find this show/movie amusing. It shows that our intelligence is decreasing and our attention span is the length of a peanut. I guarantee you that in 10 to 15 years, these guys are going to have a lot of problems and it's not going to be so funny then. I guess maybe either I'm not as liberal as I thought or I'm just too smart for this kind of humor.2/10
I walked into my mom's room while she just slipped in a DVD and a trailer popped up for Rest Stop, it looked terrifying and like another great horror movie like Wrong Turn or Texas Chainsaw Massacre, instead I got crap! Rest Stop seemed to have so much potential but wasn't well developed at all, things remained unanswered, not to mention how much that girl, Nicole, got what she deserved, because she was just plain annoying! Rest Stop is about Nicole and Jesse, for some reason they're heading to L.A., no abusive parents, no drugs, not sure why. But anyways they have unnecessary sex in a public place and go to a rest stop where it's incredibly filthy and when Nicole comes out of the rest room, her boyfriend is missing, she waits around for him to come by, but ends up getting attacked by a stranger we never find out about. She gets into a Winnebago of freaks, again, we don't know the connection with them and the killer. She goes back and finds a girl in a closet in the rest room, but a scene later she disappears mysteriously, then a cop comes by and again mysteriously disappears, no explanation. Well, you get where I'm going with this.Rest Stop is a lame copy rip off of all the ENJOYABLE horror road movies like Wrong Turn and Texas Chainsaw Massacre, I'd even go as far to say, I'd rather watch Wolf Creek than this, because this was just plain bad and nothing was explained or even scary! I really wish the girl would've smartened up some time in the film, because she had like 50 billion chances to escape or get help, that's what I mean when she got what she deserved! 1/10
I didn't want to see Cloverfield when I saw the trailer, it looked like another Blair Witch Project, it was going to get all our hopes up and then when it played, it would disappoint. But when my friend saw the film, she said that it was interesting and worth a look. So I went ahead and saw the film today and I was very impressed with the story. Even though the camera work made me a little nauseous, from where the story was told from made it all more real. It was interesting to see the film from the character's point of view and not only that, it looked so real and really scared the heck out of me. I was thinking how weird it was though that someone would record the whole thing, but in today's world, unfortunately, we have those people who think they are automatically professional documentations. This film was a mix of the 1950's sci-fi and Blair Witch that was actually scary.A group of friends are having a celebration for a their friend, Rob, who is going away to Japan. In the middle of the party, Rob and a girl friend of his, Beth have a fight and she leaves. While a friend, Hud, is filming the party, a huge crash happens in the middle of Manhattan, they go outside and see the Statue of Liberty's head in the middle of the street and see something like Godzilla destroying the city. As the group makes a run for it, Rob hears a voice mail on his cell from Beth that she's trapped, he, his brother's girlfriend, Lily, Hud with the camera, and Marlena go to get her, but end up getting attacked by little creatures. But when three survive, they continue on to save Beth, but time is running out before Manhattan is truly gone.Cloverfield is a good film because it's different than any other horror film we have seen for a while. Believe me, it's a thousand times better than the Blair Witch Project, this has truly scary and intense moments that will leave you breathless and make you feel like you're right there with the group just wishing to get out of there. Strangely, there is a love story in here that was actually touching, Rob is so determined to get to Beth and he risks his life big time, even though there's a possibility she's already dead, so it added some terrific emotion to the story. Cloverfield is a great horror film, I was very impressed and I highly recommend it.8/10
Last year I remember when Watchmen was released and everyone was so beyond excited for it. I had asked one of my co-workers why it was such a big deal and he looked at me all shocked that I had never heard of Watchmen and said it was one of the biggest graphic novels of all time. I did want to see the film, but never got around to it, mainly because I have to admit that I was put off when all I heard when I asked how the film was, was "blue penis!". How in the heck am I supposed to take that? But I let my guard down and saw it on HBO, I still have not read the novel, so I was a bit put off. Thankfully I recorded it and re-watched it because I wasn't sure what to take from it. But I'm glad I did give it another chance because I liked it a lot better the second time around. If you haven't read the book, it does put you off a bit because it's a very strange world and it's not like watching "Spider-Man" or "The Dark Knight" where you know these figures as well or what they stand for. I thought it was going to be a typical comic book movie where the hero's fight for justice for some kind of revenge you know the story. But Watchmen was something different and a lot more outside the box, which I really enjoyed. The whole film is absolutely beautiful and nicely shot. While the film is flawed, it's still an achievement in cinema that I learned from my friend that everyone thought would not and could not be made.The story takes place in an alternate time line in which masked, costumed heroes fight crime in America called the Watchmen. The Watchmen have been outlawed by Congress after an outpouring of anti-vigilante sentiment in the country, and tensions between the United States and the Soviet Union have escalated the Cold War with threats of nuclear attack. By 1985, only three Watchmen remain active: the Comedian and Doctor Manhattan, and the masked vigilante Rorschach, who refuses to retire and remains active illegally. Investigating the murder of government agent Edward Blake, Rorschach discovers that Blake was the Comedian, and concludes that someone may be trying to eliminate the Watchmen. He attempts to warn his retired comrades. his former partner Nite Owl, the emotionally detached Mr. Manhattan, and Dr. Manhattan's lover the Silk Spectre. Nite Owl is skeptical, but nonetheless relates the hypothesis to billionaire Ozymandias, who dismisses it. Later, Rorschach's conspiracy theory appears to be justified when Veidt, narrowly avoids an assassination attempt, and Rorschach finds himself framed for murder. Meanwhile Spectre, after breaking up with Manhattan, goes to stay with Nite Owl, and the two former superheroes come out of retirement as they grow closer. After they break Rorschach out of prison, Silk Spectre is confronted by Dr. Manhattan. He takes her to Mars and, after she asks him to save the world, explains he is no longer interested in humanity. As the superhero's realize the flaws they have, decide to join forces and save the world in their own way.Like I said, I can't judge the movie with the book, I just had to take the movie for what it was. The only thing that I wasn't happy with was who they cast for Silk Spectre, Malin Åkerman is an alright actress, but from the story that I watched, she didn't seem appropriate for what I would expect. But the stand out performances for me were by Patrick Wilson as Nite Owl and Jackie Earle Haley as Rorschach. Patrick Wilson does a great undertone to Nite Owl, his alter ego as Dan was perfect and someone who I would never suspect of being a superhero. Jackie however was the ultimate break-through performance, I found his back story to be the most intriguing and I wanted his story to continue further. Same with Mr. Manhattan, his back story was incredible and could have been a film in itself. At almost 3 hours long, I did not find myself bored at all with Watchmen, it stands out cinematically and I found it a lot better than "blue penis" reviews. 8/10
I was interested in seeing Flags of Our Fathers, in high school and college, for my history classes, WWII was the most interesting subject and I've always loved learning about the different battles and historic moments of that time. The men who raised the flag at Iwo was something I never had an opportunity to study, I was lucky enough in junior high to see the statue in Washington, D.C., but I never understood what it meant, that's why I was looking forward to Flags of Our Fathers. I was interested in what the flag truly meant to the people and I'd say that Flags of Our Fathers was a great story to tell.As I stated, one of the most memorable pictures of WWII was the men raising the American flag in victory. But do we know who those men were? What they were thinking about when they raised the flag? Was the flag staged? How did the men feel being called heroes coming home when they just witnessed so many of their friends being slaughtered? What makes a hero and could we really say who was the good and who was the bad of every war? Flags of Our Fathers showed what we are still living with to this day, with the war in Iraq, we are very quick to call every soldier a hero, but sort of like Ira said in the movie "I was just dodging bullets", I don't think we could ever understand what these men went through and what it must have been like coming home to everyone applauding them when they just lost their brother or best friend, then being forgot after a while. While this isn't the best WWII movie, I don't think it's one to be missed, so please do give this movie a look, I think people need to understand what these men have gone through.7/10
I'm not sure how this movie has a 6.7, seriously, I was so excited to see this film when I saw that it had a decent rating. I got it as a free rental, so I figured I would see what it was about, after all it had a very promising cast. Including Ray Liotta who is a very under rated actor and in my opinion didn't get enough credit after Goodfellas. But anyways, I just saw this film a couple days ago and I just really couldn't get into it, it just kept making these sudden movements and wouldn't stop with the loud noises or constant trying to be witty but not so much remarks. Whoever this director was, he is not Martin Scorcesse or Francis Ford Coppola or not even Michael Bay, I think he was trying to combine them.OK, from what I gathered, there is this guy, Buddy 'Aces' Israel, a former mafia member turned snitch, when he has to testify in court, he doesn't want too, but he doesn't get off so easy. He's pretty much got the whole world after him and they don't want him living. But only two detectives are protecting him and they are definitely going to have to be on their best alert for this guy since there is a bunch of bounty hunters also trying to get him.Smokin' Aces tries to be a hip new mafia movie that just very much misses instead of making it into a hit. The acting wasn't really good, the camera work must have been done by a guy who plays too many video games, and the story was just confusing, it was too distracting since the movie was just so loud and stupid, it gave me such a headache. This movie in no way deserves a 6.7 rating, I've seen soooo much better. I wouldn't recommend this for a watch, especially to those who have a great appreciation for true mafia films.2/10
Ah, yes, I did travel back to the 80's this morning watching the film Footloose starring then new comer, Kevin Bacon. The funny thing is that I performed Footloose in my high school, it's now like 5 years later and I realized when I bought this film yesterday that I had never seen the movie. I figured since it was so cheap for 5 bucks on DVD, I'd buy it for fun and I watched it this morning. Footloose is an absolute blast of a movie that I'm sure that anyone could get into. Yes, it's a bit of a time capsule, but it's still all in good fun. I liked how this wasn't necessarily your typical musical, it just had an awesome soundtrack with the movie. The story is just so much fun and original, you just fall in love with Ren McCormick from the start.Ren is a new guy from the big city of Chicago coming into a small town and now this small town has banished dancing since a big accident that happened years ago that killed several teens after a dance, there were drugs and alcohol involved, so naturally these folks think that it's all apart of dancing. But Ren's getting a hard time from everyone because of his fun loving nature, but he makes friends with a wanna be cow boy, Willard. Soon he also becomes the preacher's rebellious daughter, Ariel's love interest. He wants the kids to have fun though and wants a big dance thrown for the town and must convince them to cut their foot loose.Footloose is just a fun movie that I'm sure you'll have fun with. It's charming, it's funny, it's just a blast to watch, and it's an 80's classic. The acting was actually pretty good, we have a great cast that looked like they enjoyed themselves. Of course we'll always question how the kids just managed the skills of dancing, you'll see what I mean when you watch it, but it's all good. I would highly recommend this film, it's a fun one to watch. Kevin Bacon is totally cool and a must see for Footloose.6/10
Jason Friedberg and Aaron Seltzer, the way everyone talks about these guys are as if they are on America's Most Wanted List, boy there is a lot of hate before the release date of Disaster Movie. They have brought us the "stupid" comedies like Date Movie, Epic Movie, and Meet the Spartans, pretty much all those movies have had the same hate, I can understand why. Jason Friedberg and Aaron Seltzer are like the kids in high school who just cruised by, just failing every class possible, being happy with the C's and D's, then they somehow get into Princeton because their parents had money or something, it's the exact same thing with movies. The way that I just happen to look at these movies is that they are like a MAD TV spoof, just mindless entertainment. I hated Date Movie, didn't mind Epic Movie, liked Meet the Spartans, Disaster Movie is a notch lower than Meet the Spartans. We have recycled jokes from the guy's previous movies, jokes that drag on and on to the point where you'll tear your hair out, and is of course, made badly.Will has had a dream that he feels like the end of the world is coming. All of a sudden the city is attacked Cloverfield style, he and his friends run around trying to find shelter and figure out what is going on while bumping into one celebrity after another. But even Batman, Iron Man, The Hulk, and Hancock can not save this world. Will and his friends realize that they have to save the world on their own and fight evil chipmunks, aliens, and flying cows.Disaster Movie, actually does have a couple laughs, I will admit that, I nearly died laughing during the Alvin and the Chipmunks parody, it was so badly funny, I just couldn't help but laugh. There are just some fun moments, I think it's ridicules that some people can not admit that. That's the reason for my title is because I saw a lot of comments from users that didn't even involve them seeing the movie, they were just complaining... this isn't the IMDb that I know, it's silly that people are just putting on comments that have nothing to do with their opinion on why they hate the movie before they even see it. Back onto the movie, my main thing that I'm upset with, this movie didn't need a script, it seems as if Jason Friedberg and Aaron Seltzer just made it up as they went along. For some reason we have movies that were literally just released last month like Wanted and Hancock, not to mention The Dark Knight. I think they just coursed their way through this, while the movie has some funny moments, my HONEST opinion, if you want to see this I suggest the rental, this is straight to DVD quality.1/10
I recently saw the theatrical trailer for the movie Resident Evil: Extinction and it occurred to me that I never saw either Resident Evil movies, even though I've been wanting to see them. So I rented the movies yesterday and watched them last night and I have to say that I was a little surprised about the rating on IMDb, I really loved Apocalypse, I think I liked it better than the first Resident Evil. Milla Jovovich is still so awesome and I think she's improved since the first movie. In Resident Evil: Apocalypse we have more action and in my opinion a very awesome story, one that is even up there I would say with George Romero's zombie stories.We start where we have left off where Alice has been left in the lab with her friend, Matt. But she escapes and finds a world that is not the same, where the virus has broken out into the world and zombies are now walking above ground. People are doing their best to survive and there are now new people called STARS where they are being eliminated by a huge new monster who might be familiar to Alice. But she is with survivors: Jill Valentine, Carlos Oliviera, Captain Nicholai and they find a little girl, Angie Ashford who's dad Dr. Ashford is the man who created the virus and is being hunted down.Resident Evil: Apocalypse was very awesome to watch and it's a buy for me at least. I'm really looking forward to Extinction now, I can't wait to see how they continue the story. See, the only bummer about me watching this now is because now I have to wait for the sequels as well. But at least I get the experience of the theater. But anyways, I would recommend this movie for anyone, it's an awesome movie to watch and has terrific action.8/10
Back in the wonderful decade that was known as the 1970's, many wonderful movies were released, including some of my favorite horror films. The Exorcist, Jaws, Texas Chainsaw Massacre, Halloween, etc. Another classic horror film that was released was Alien, a film that was like no other. The reason why, it was something different, when it's a haunted house you can easily say to the person on screen "GET OUT OF THE HOUSE!", when it's in space well, you can't exactly say anything. Alien broke the horror space genre with new terrifying concepts and effects that had never been seen before. Ever since then, many movies have tried to copy Alien's formula. 2009 has now brought us Pandorum, a fast paced film not just about scary creatures on board but the whole concept of madness. All goes together well in a sci-fi horror film. The only problem with Pandorum? Maybe it was a little too 2009 with the filming.Two astronauts, Bower and Payton, wake to find themselves drifting through space 500 million miles from Earth and with no memory of who they are, what they are doing, or what has happened to the crew of their 60,000 passenger space ship. They are unable to access the ship's bridge, and cannot communicate with any other members of the crew, including the flight team they are to relieve. While exploring the spacecraft under Payton's radio guidance, Bower encounters several other surviving crew members, and the astronauts start to learn that a terrible event has occurred on board which might have affected the survival of the entire human species. As Bower ventures deeper into the ship, he discovers other humans running from monsters that are former crew members endowed with genetic enhancements meant to help them adapt to their eventual new world, but which instead caused them to mutate to the spacecraft environment. They also learn that some crew members also suffer from a psychosis, a severe psychological condition called Pandorum, which can be brought about by being in deep-space for extended periods of time, and is triggered to an uncontrollable level by intense emotional trauma. Those afflicted with Pandorum experience severe paranoia, vivid hallucinations and eventually homicidal rage.Pandorum is an extremely good story and has a great new look for these scary space creatures that are chasing after our hero's of the ship. They basically look like Alien if they were dressed like theater ushers with flash lights, lol. Well not that dorky, they are actually pretty scary looking. Acting wise, we have decent enough, Ben Foster who's career is blossoming as we speak pulls in a strong enough male lead. We also have our veteran who is familiar with the sci-fi genre, Dennis Quaid who steals the show with his constant questioning madness. The only thing that stops me from recommending this to see it in the theater is just the way it was made. Unfortunately, the fast and shaky camera movements were too much to see what was going on in the scene and I had to re-think some of the scenes in my head in order to figure them out. But other than that, it's a good scare for the Halloween season and is worth the watch.6/10
I saw Bedtime Stories a while back but this was a film I couldn't believe how much I didn't like this film, it was absolutely ridicules and I'm sorry but it insults even the children's intelligence. Adam Sandler, I'm going to tell a story: Once upon a time, a man named Adam Sandler made over a million dollars doing baby voices, he also released several movies. Some being hits(i.e. The Wedding Singer) and some being huge misses(i.e. You Don't Mess With The Zohan). He was a funny man but for some odd reason decided to choose to make some really lousy choices in film. Bedtime Stories is one of them, it's extremely predictable and beyond stupid. I couldn't believe all the cliché's in this film not to mention, I love how in every Disney film they have to have an "adorable" animal steal the screen, which this one wasn't even adorable, it was down right disturbing. I don't even know if I should sum up the story since it's predictable, but if you wanna know.Skeeter Bronson is a hotel leader who is promised as a child by his father Marty to be the manager of the family hotel, but later it is bought by chain Nottingham Hotels. 25 years later, the new manager Mr. Nottingham plans to build a new hotel and appoints another man, the snotty Kendall to become the manager, because he is dating his daughter. Skeeter's sister asks him to watch her kids, because the school at which she is the principal is being closed and she is looking for a job in Arizona. The first night, Skeeter tells a bedtime story taking place in medieval times, with some additions from her kids. It comes true. Mr. Nottingham gives Skeeter a shot at the manager position when he says his new hotel theme was taken by Hard Rock Hotel and on his way home it rains gumballs, all from the story. The next night, at the hotel, he tells another story set in the Old West, and when he waits for it to come true, a man steals his wallet. He saves Mr. Nottingham's daughter, Violet , from the paparazzi and gets kicked by a dwarf. The night after that, out on a campfire, he tells them about a Greek stunt man, and he ends up falling for his sister's friend and fellow colleague Jill. The last night, he tells them about a space fight, and unfortunately makes the discovery, and they change the ending to him being hit by a gigantic ball of fire.Bedtime Stories has it's occasional laughs, but it seems like this was more made for a 4 year old. The characters are not developed or really likable. Adam Sandler has made a career on making stupid baby voices, I mean, how is it that this man gets several million dollars on doing that? But if that's what people like to see, I'm just glad that I got to see this for free. It wasted my time, it wasn't cute, the cast was out of place and the kids were annoying as heck. I wouldn't really recommend watching this movie, it's not even a good family movie. I'm sorry, but a 6.2 rating is beyond too generous for this stupid movie.2/10
John Carpenter made the famous movie Halloween back in the 1970's, it was a clever thriller that gave birth to a new genre. He made a sequel still starring the killer and then made another Halloween with a different plot and planned to make an anthology but the audiences didn't respond to it. However, it's a great idea and one that got tossed too soon because if you think about it, it was very clever. Every year for Halloween to watch a different scary story. We did get Creepshow and Tales from the Crypt but what do we have in today's generation? We got a clever anthology called Trick 'r Treat. Halloween is all about the excitement of dressing up, getting candy, decorating and telling scary stories. It brings you back to being a kid and just enjoying the day of scares. Trick 'r Treat takes you back in the circle of friends you had telling a scary story before bed time and giving you nightmares for a week.The film is an anthology of four Halloween-related scary stories. Emma and her holiday-obsessed husband, Henry have set up numerous ghost-scarecrows for Halloween in their yard. While Henry is inside waiting for Emma to take down the decorations, she is murdered with a large blade-shaped pumpkin lollipop by an unknown assailant. Steven Wilkins, the middle-aged town principal, spots Charlie stealing candy from his yard. Smiling, he places him on his front door and talks to him, carving out a jock-o-lantern, and he gives him a candy, in which he placed a poison. Five kids journey to the local rock quarry where they are told that the local urban legend of "The Halloween School Bus Massacre". Laurie, a self-conscious 22-year-old virgin, is at the local theme park party with her friends. She is annoyed by their talks about the boys, and goes out on the several drives on the theme park. The other girls find local men at the party, and they pick the girls up, leaving Laurie behind at the park. Angry and alone, she decides to go to the woods. There, she is attacked by a vampire. At the local camp nearby, her sister Danielle and her friends Maria and Janet party at a bonfire with men they picked up along the way. The vampire's body suddenly drops from a tree onto the party and Laurie appears. The "vampire" is revealed to be Principal Wilkins in disguise wearing fake fangs. The girls at the party, along with Laurie, suddenly transform into bloody werewolves, removing their skins, and is revealed that Laurie's "virginity" is actually that she has never killed anyone as a werewolf, and they devour their dates along with Wilkins.The stories were really creative. I think my favorite was the female werewolf pack, it was a great twist on what could have been a cliché story. I liked the bus going over the cliff story, it reminded me of being a kid and my friends and I going somewhere making up a silly story about how it was haunted in some way. The make up effects were fantastic and the sets were chilling. I loved Sam the Pumpkinhead, what a great new Halloween figure! He was the scariest part of the movie and was very creative in how he tortured his victims. The only flaws I'd find in the film is that some stories did drag a little bit, it's a short movie, but they should keep the tension in mind. During the bus story where the kids are walking around the beach did get a little long at times. But it's a minor complaint that I'm sure anyone could get past. I think I have a new movie to add in Halloween traditional films to watch selection. This is a good one I'd recommend to horror fans, it was a ton of fun to watch.9/10
I know that the Charlie's Angels series was kind of hokey and I think that's what they were going for with for the sequel. I figured that I would give it a shot and see if this was any kind of an improvement from the first movie, and I have to say: Nope. It was really disappointing and had way too much CGI effects, not to mention, I'm sorry to disappoint, but I bet you anything, CGI helped with Demi's looks as well.The second Charlie's Angels is about how the girls need to get ahold of a loose file of the witness protection program, that also includes Dylan, she was formally known as "Helen Zass", which that joke was well played out, and the angels meet old wings gone bad, Madison Lee. She is the leader of the gang that is trying to find all the people in the witness protection program and kill them.Like I said, some jokes were just too played out and the CGI was way out of control. It's really sad that movies like this get a huge budget while other movies with great potential get diddley! Charlie's Angels: Full Throttle was mainly about money and a cheap soft porn dream for all the teenage boys! I'm sorry, but I would recommend to stay away from this flick.2/10
I rented Maid in Manhattan the other day and watched it last night, but before I had watched it, I looked at the rating on IMDb and I saw the low rating and I was like "Oh, no, I've picked another bad movie". I don't know why I wanted to see this movie, just I figured I needed a romantic comedy in my selection, so I just grabbed it and even after that rating I thought this was going to be a bad movie. But as it turns out this really wasn't a bad movie at all. Yeah, it has minor flaws here and there, this isn't movie of the year, but over all I would say that it was pretty cute.Marisa is a single mom in Manhattan who is a working maid in one of the top hotels. She is also up for a big promotion as a manager and is hoping to help her fellow employees. When she and a co-worker are just fooling around and wondering what it's like to try on over 5,000 dollars worth of clothes, Marisa gets caught by a politician who her son is excited to meet. She has to convince him that nothing can happen between them without letting him know what she did and who she really is, but it might be too strong of a connection for both of them to let go so easily.Maid in Manhattan is predictable and I think Marisa's character wasn't really as developed as I would like her to be because she came off as kinda rude and judgmental. But over all, I wouldn't say this is a 4.5 rated movie, I think people were probably just jumping on the movie because it is Jennifer Lopez, I would agree, I'm not into her either, but I can't resist if I do like a movie or not and I wanna be honest if I like a movie. So please just give the movie a shot if you're looking for a sweet romantic comedy.5/10
I came across this movie because of my boyfriend, he swore that this ending was one of the best endings in a movie he had ever seen. But being the ultimate film buff and being a fan of James Caan, I wanted to see the whole movie, so we watched it together. This is a tight and suspenseful thriller that is like a little gem of 1981. James Caan is such a terrific actor, so I was interested in seeing him in a lead role to see if he could carry a movie by himself and he did do an excellent job. Michael Mann, this is one of his first movies, so it's really cool to see where he has come from and even back in 1981, he had this definite talent that has taken him so far. The story may be a bit basic, the rise and fall of someone who has hit the top, but once they want to pull away, it starts to crumble. But if told in the right way, we can get a terrific film and Thief proves itself to be a good thriller.Frank is an expert jewel thief and hard-boiled ex-convict with a set structure to his life. With a pair of successful Chicago businesses as fronts for his very lucrative criminal enterprise, Frank sets out to fulfill the missing part of his dream: a family beginning with Jessie. After taking down a major score, Frank's fence is murdered. He finds out that the man responsible is a Mr. Attaglia, a shady plating company executive for whom the fence was working. Attaglia is in possession of money that belongs to Frank, who demands it back. This leads to a face-to-face meeting with Attaglia's employer, Leo, a high-level fence and crime boss, who wants Frank to work for him, offering him "boxcar" profits. Frank is reluctant at first, but wanting to make his dream come to fruition faster, he agrees to do just one job. But after the job is done, Frank soon realizes that Leo is not so easy to let him go.The only complaint is pretty minor, I was a little stumped by the movie's soundtrack, it did throw me off a bit. But I think that's all part of the 80's films genre, very odd music in the background. It's all good, we have a terrific supporting cast with Robert Prosky, James Belushi and Tuesday Weld, even Willie Nelson pulls in a good strong supporting role. The whole atmosphere and the strong direction by Mann pulls this movie together very well. I'd say one of the strongest scenes is the face off between Frank and Leo, when Frank is excited that he's completed his last assignment and Frank wants to just mainstream into a normal life but Leo is not going to let him go, the tension was so high and created so well by the actors. It's a very dark and suspenseful film that I have to admit that I enjoyed over all, I would recommend it.9/10
I used to watch a ton of classic movies when I was a kid with my parents, Robin Hood of course being on the list. But I haven't seen this movie in so many years, thankfully it was playing on TV and I was able to relive this classic tale of one of the greatest hero's in history, Robin Hood. Now one of the things I love about this film is it's genuine charm, as dated as it is, that actually makes this film more fun. The actors, the fights, the story and just the feel good message of this movie makes me fall in love with it all over again. Olivia de Havilland is absolutely gorgeous and had such amazing chemistry with Errol Flynn, you could see why they did more films together. The classic tale of Robin Hood is told differently each time and with a different vision, this was the more fun and family friendly version. With Errol Flynn's charismatic lead role, how could you not fall in love with him? He is the greatest actor to ever portray Robin Hood and brings you into this world of stealing from the rich and giving to the poor with his merry men.When Richard, the King of England, is taken captive while returning from the Crusades, his brother John takes power and proceeds to oppress the Saxon commoners. Prince John raises their taxes, supposedly to raise Richard's ransom, but in reality to secure his own position on the throne. One man stands in his way, the Saxon Robin Hood. Robin goes alone to see Prince John at Gisbourne's castle and announces to John's assembled supporters and a contemptuous Maid Marian that he will do all in his power to oppose John and restore Richard to his rightful place. His lands and title now forfeit, Robin takes refuge in Sherwood Forest with his friend Will Scarlet. There they meet and recruit Little John. Other men join their growing band. Later, Robin provokes Friar Tuck into a sword fight, but then persuades the friar into joining him to provide spiritual guidance to the outlaws. One day, Robin and his men capture a large party of Normans transporting taxes through Sherwood. Among Robin's "guests" are Gisbourne, the Sheriff of Nottingham, and Maid Marian. Robin and his men "liberate" the tax money, swearing to a man to contribute it towards King Richard's ransom. At first, Marian is disdainful of Robin and his "band of cut-throats", but becomes convinced of his good intentions. The Sheriff then comes up with a cunning scheme to capture Robin. However, Marian warns Robin's men, and they manage to rescue him when he is captured. But now Marian is in trouble and labeled a traitor, sentenced to hanging and now needs Robin to save her.Although it being dated can be fun, it can also be considered a flaw, granted it was the 1930's, so you have to cut it some slack. So sometimes you cannot take it seriously with all the fights or some of the characters. But Errol and Olivia really deliver in this movie and you cannot deny that. The sets and costumes are just amazing as well, everything came out to look so beautiful in this movie. The choreographed fight scenes also are very thrilling as well, the fencing between Robin Hood and the villains were great to watch. But my favorite scene is when he teases the friar Tuck, I just couldn't' stop laughing and having a good time as you see the actors probably enjoyed making it as well. He rides Friar Tuck into the water just to press his buttons, it's a silly scene but makes you smile. When it comes to Robin Hood, this is always the classic tale that is sure to win you over.8/10
Ah, thrillers, the genre that can either hit or miss, because of it's wonderful "twist" endings. Now when I saw the trailer for A Perfect Getaway, I have to admit that I was intrigued, the advertisement said that it had a great twist ending, and for fun my boyfriend and I always like to go to these movies and try to see who can guess what the ending is, whoever guesses first and correctly will buy dinner, lol. So I happened to be right on this one, well, we both did, we pretty much figured out from the beginning, even though the director was trying to be "sly" about the whole thing, but never since The Perfect Stranger with Halle Berry and Bruce Willis, have I seen such a pathetic twist ending. This is one of those movies that is the "let's have a twist ending because we can" while I would have been perfectly happy if this was just an average thriller/horror movie. Instead we don't get the best from the actors and a very silly movie.A young couple, Cliff and Cydney are celebrating their honeymoon by hiking to a remote beach in Hawaii. The couple comes across two hitchhikers, Cleo and Kale, and a group of frightened hikers discussing a double murder in Honolulu of another newlywed couple on the island, with the victims having their teeth pulled out, and they begin to question whether they should turn back. Unsure whether to stay or flee, Cliff and Cydney join up with another couple, Nick, who claims to have a titanium plate in his head and be a former special forces operative, and his longtime girlfriend, Gina, a former butcher. Far from civilization or rescue, everyone begins to look like a threat and nobody knows whom to trust. They later see Cleo and Kale getting arrested under the suspicion of murder. Gina and Cydney reveal that each thought that the others were the killers, and the group continues to the beach. Even though everything seems to be in the clear, things are not always as they seem.A Perfect Getaway is seriously a ridicules movie that made no sense whatsoever, even with the ending being that Cliff and Cydney are the killers, why the heck in the beginning when we, the audience, are trying to figure out who the killers are, we get friggin' obvious Bonnie and Clyde type of girl and guy who are not too subtle on the "we are the killers" look. So it's like pointing out the typical creepy janitor in horror movies, you know that they're not the killers and then you have Cliff and Cydney who are talking about the other couple being the killers and it makes no sense. In fact neither does this paragraph, this movie has me so confused, lol. But point being, A Perfect Getaway was a waste of time and money. I strongly recommend you stay away form it, it was pretty lame.2/10
Oh, my God, I finally saw TMNT, I don't know how many opportunities to see TMNT in the theater, but it never pulled through. But I finally got to see the movie this morning on DVD; I have to say that over all the movie really worked. While I would still prefer the live action Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles film made back in '90, this was a fun adaption as well. The CGI was always an ifie subject with me, but I think that it worked for the simple fact of where this movie was aimed at, mostly a children's audience, and the dark animation made you feel as if you were in the comics. The voices were a perfect fit and the story was very cool. The only problem I had with the movie is that it seemed to be like more of a video game than an actual movie, it could have just been more creative I think. But the story worked very well.The turtles are back and they are about to face their biggest villain yet, a bunch of immortal stone monsters who are wishing to stay this way. But it gets harder when Leonardo comes back from the jungle just trying to become a better leader, but Rapheal isn't in the mood when he wants things done his own way. Now the boys must try to fight as one to fight off these monsters, with Splinter, Casey Jones and April O'Neil on their side, they just might be able to pull together and save the city once again.TMNT is a fun animation movie that I'm sure kids will love. I was 5 when the first Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles movie came out and I admit, I still watch it to this day, I still love the turtles, so I guess I was looking for those old memories. But since this wasn't really aimed towards the old school fans, I think it was somewhat of a disappointment, but it is worth a watch. I definitely think if you enjoy the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles stories, you'll get into TMNT.6/10
I was a little curious to see Blow, it's my sister's favorite movie and one of my friends is absolutely in love with this movie, I knew my mom had it and finally watched it today. My mom and I have the same opinion on it, it wasn't a bad movie at all, but it seemed like it just couldn't keep our interest. I don't know, I think it's just those movies where you almost feel bad for the bad guys that always get to me. But the movie in some ways just seemed like it wanted to be the next Scarface, but it just didn't work, you know? This is a movie I was curious as to what drew Johnny to it.He plays George Jung, a man who soon becomes the biggest smuggler in US history. If you know how these movies come along, of course, he starts big, he falls in love, falls in love again, makes millions of dollars, has a beautiful daughter, and seems to have the world at his feet. But when it goes to his head, he ends up loosing everything he tried so hard to keep.I'm not sure if I would recommend this movie, maybe it just wasn't for me, but you'll have to see for yourself. Because like I said, it just seemed like it wasn't a bad movie, but I warn you that you'll feel a wanna-be Scarface in the mix, you'll see what I mean when you watch it. Johnny made an interesting decision by doing this movie, but different strokes for different folks I guess.6/10
Horror films can either be really stupid or really fun, sometimes even both. Grindhouse horror movies were sometimes the best of both worlds and we got that with Basketcase, a wacky movie about two brothers bonding over mass murdercouldn't be sweeter. A low budget movie with implausible reactions to certain situations, silly actors, fun stop animation effects, good spooks, gore by the buckets or "baskets", and unnecessary hard core nudity and we have one of the most fun cult classic films: Basketcase.Duane Bradley arrives to New York from the northern small town of Glen Falls, to the ugly Hotel Broslin. Anthony, the hotel manager, mocks him and asks for twenty bucks a night. Duane is loaded, pays in cash and is given room 7. Once inside his room, Duane unlocks his basket and feeds it a huge quantity of hamburgers. At night, the body in the basket, tries to talk to him, but Duane only wants to sleep. We know that the body can leave the basket on his own. Duane takes the basket to see Dr Harold Needleman MD. Sharon the receptionist, makes small conversation with Duane, who sees Dr Needleman. It turns out that the body in the basket wants revenge on all the doctors who separated him and Duane. Duane who has been supportive of this mission falls for Sharon and it turns out his brother takes the comment "bro's before hoes" too seriously and takes it too far causing Duane to question the mission and the body's sanity.The funny thing about this movie is that if you took away the mass killing, this could've been a touching story about a brother's true love for his Siamese twin and trying to convince everyone that he really is apart of him no matter what. But instead we have a good ol' killing spree where the lump of flesh with a piranha face brother is not exactly giving much good reason for him and his brother to hang out on a daily basis. I loved how all this awful stuff is happening, some even directly in Duane's hotel room but no one kicks him out or arrests him or questions him. They just want to know what's in the box and he'll never tell, unless you get him belligerently drunk and he'll say it while laughing.The effects are actually good for a low budget film, in a cheesy kind of way. Even the lump of flesh with a piranha face was pretty scarybut how the heck is he killing people? He's 2 inches tall! Well, that's the fun for the power of suspension of disbelief. The acting is pretty bad, but it's a delightful kind of bad where you're just having fun with Basketcase. There's a lot of great gore scenes and any true horror fan could really appreciate this film. Sometimes it's the low budget films that are the best treasures you can find and I'm glad that I bought this one. While it's cheesy and silly at times, it's really a good horror movie with laughs and invites you to have a good time with it. Hopefully it doesn't get remade because it's the low budget that gives it the charm. Basketcase, if you have the opportunity to see it, take it.7/10
Well, it's been 3 years since we had the comedy hit Night at the Museum, naturally they went for a sequel to either make more money or spill the story for what it's worth. Eh, I pick all of thee above. But surprisingly Night at the Museum: Battle of the Smithsonian was actually a lot better then I had expected, in fact, I think I enjoyed it much more then the first Night at the Museum. Now the first Night at the Museum movie was alright, it didn't really thrill me, Ben Stiller is praised so much as a comedic actor but I've only found him funny in Zoolander. But when it comes to movies like Meet the Parents, There's Something About Mary and Night at the Museum, it's usually the supporting cast that carries the movie and he seems just like the same character in every movie. Once again the supporting cast saves this movie and makes it a great family film.Larry Daley is now head of Daley Devices, a company he founded to manufacture his inventions. These inventions, including the Glow-in-the-Dark Flashlight, were created from his experiences as a former night guard. He finds that the American Museum of Natural History is closed for upgrades and renovations, and the museum pieces are moving to the Federal Archives at the Smithsonian Institution in Washington DC. On the last night, Larry meets the museum pieces such as Teddy Roosevelt, Rexy the T Rex Skeleton, and Dexter the Monkey and finds out that several exhibits, including Teddy, Rexy, the Easter Island Head, and Ahkmenrah are not moving to The Smithsonian Institution, the other exhibits will no longer be animated. The next night, Larry gets a call from Jedediah, saying that Dexter stole the tablet, and that Kahmunrah, Ahkmenrah's older brother, is attacking them. Larry takes a plane to Washington and visits the National Air and Space Museum, the National Gallery of Art and the Smithsonian Castle to find the Federal Archives.Over all Night at the Museum: Battle of the Smithsonian is worth the recommendation, I'd say a matinée if you want to see it with the family. Hank Azaria puts a bit of a strange personality for Kahmunrah, but he provides quite a few good laughs. Along with Owen Wilson and Steve Coogan who are back as the cowboy and the roman soldier, great chemistry right there. They have this scene that nearly killed me in laughter, since they're so small they go 300 style in trying to stab all the bad guy's feet, great style and homage to the war films. Amy Adams pulls in a great performance that I feel is going to be over looked as Amelia Earhart, she has that old school Hollywood look to her and personality that was a perfect choice. There are some great moments in this sequel but there are some really silly one's as well, so over all I'd say it's worth the look, it's a good family film, but again nothing too memorable.6/10
Again, I don't mean to sound like a broken record but it seems like Disney/Pixar is the only competent movie company that produces great films and classic stories. They know how to write, shoot and tell a story well. Toy Story is Pixar's baby, at the time of the first film's release and was the start of what we have today with computer animation. Now the first Toy Story was good, the second Toy Story was great and Toy Story 3 was absolutely fantastic. The stories just get better and better as they keep coming. Bringing back our favorite characters but adding a fun new little twist to them, it brought a new audience in and kept the one's who saw the first one and gave us something new to enjoy. Pixar's last films like Ratatouille, Wall-E and Up kept raising the bar higher and higher, not only are they Disney's great films, but they're also some of the strongest and best films of all time. Toy Story 3 can now be added as this is my favorite of the trilogy, bringing in some great new characters and magic to the story, I couldn't stop laughing and crying with this movie. I thought this was a perfect ending to the trilogy as it gets to all the adults when we had to grow up and give up our childhood toys.Now seventeen years old, Andy has outgrown his old toys and is preparing to move to college. He decides to take Woody with him and packs the other toys in a garbage bag, intending to store them in the attic, but Andy's mom mistakenly puts the bag on the curb. Believing that Andy no longer wants them, the toys sneak into a box to be donated to Sunnyside Daycare. As the only toy who saw what really happened, Woody tries to clear up the misunderstanding, but the other toys refuse to believe him and they are all driven to Sunnyside. Woody tries to convince the others to return to Andy, but they decide they are happier at Sunnyside, so he leaves without them. The others soon discover that Lotso had placed them in a room of toddlers, whose young and rambunctious nature causes them to abuse and torture the innocent toys. Woody learns that Sunnyside is a toy prison. Realizing their error, the toys try to leave but are imprisoned by Lotso, the head bear of the toys and his henchmen. Woody must return to Sunnyside to help his friends break out.One of the things I absolutely loved about this film was that it is darker than other family animated movies, I felt like this one had to be as it's really sad that Andy has to say good bye to his toys. But I was telling my friends the other day how it's sad because a lot of animated films while they're good, our films that we grew up with always had a dark touch like Who Framed Roger Rabbit or The Lion King, along with others long before those films. I thought maybe this generation was just a bit wussy when it came to having a little bit of a scary story. But Toy Story 3 has some genuinely chilling moments, the group of evil henchmen toys turn Buzz evil and it is actually kind of creepy the way they come at him. I loved when they put our group of toys in the bins and had a little tribute to some great prison movies, something for the adults to enjoy. I also saw a little Puss in Boots when the group gets a hold of Buzz and resets him by accident turning him into Spanish Buzz Lightyear, I couldn't stop laughing at his actions and lines. Incredible animation, great story along with a strong cast, this was a terrific film that I was so glad to see. I don't like to over hype a movie because you'll have a certain hope for it, but I went in with high hopes and not only got what I wanted, but much more. I can't wait for this movie to be added to my DVD collection. It's a new classic that I'm sure you'll absolutely love.10/10
So the other day I was watching HBO, just surfing and saw that The Wizard was playing, my sister had mentioned how her friends were just talking about this movie. My sister and I were both born in the 1980's and both had a Nintendo system of course. So I decided to go ahead and check out this movie, it seemed sort of like a nostalgic movie that represented out simple time of Super Mario Brothers. Not knowing what this film was about, just that it had a lot of Nintendo games in it, I wasn't sure what to expect. But I'm sure that maybe when the film came out, it had a lot of high expectations, but it was a let down as this story is a bit odd. I don't know who wrote the script, but these "kids" that star in the movie don't talk or act like kids at all, at least that I could remember I never talked like that with my friends. Then the adults act like a bunch of immature kids, the way some of these people behave, you're surprised they're not in a mental institution. But somehow, I don't know why, I liked this movie. It's one of those movies that I can't explain why, I just enjoyed the film.Jimmy is a young boy who has been in a silent mode since his twin sister drowned in a river. He doesn't interact with anyone, spending most of his time building things out of blocks or boxes, and he always carries his lunch pail with him. He's determined go to California.Jimmy's condition has broken up his family: he lives with his mother and stepfather, while his half-brothers Corey and Nick live with their father Sam. When Jimmy is put into an institution, Corey breaks him out and runs away with him to California. Jimmy's mother and stepfather hire Putnam, runaway child hunter, who competes with Corey's father and older brother to find the boys and sabotage each other's efforts. Along the way, they meet a girl named Haley, who is on her way home to Reno. Discovering that Jimmy has an innate skill at playing video games, Haley tells them about "Video Armageddon", a video game tournament with a cash prize of $50,000. She then agrees to help the two reach Los Angeles. By doing so, they hope to prove that Jimmy doesn't need to live in an institution.The story is a bit tedious at times, our little weirdo kid Jimmy doesn't exactly have the charm to win over the audience's heart as he's a bit too strange with his deliverance of the line "Califooooneeea", heck, even Arnold Schwartzenegger says "California" more believable than Jimmy. Also, I know the child hunter Puntman is a sleaze bag, but why is he a villain? The dad and brother are constantly getting into unrealistic fights with him that are almost deadly, they slash each other's car tires, they crash into each other's cars, they try to shatter each other's windows, it's a bit too disturbing what they go through just so they could say who got to the kids first. The Wizard was just a big Nintendo promotion to buy all the newest video games, including their newest at the time Super Mario Brothers 3(one of the most awesome video games of all time I have to say), also a promotion of Universal Studios that wasn't too subtle. But still, again, through all that's bad, I think this film has a good time and had good intentions over all. It's nothing too memorable, but if you are a kid of the 80's/90's I think you'll get a kick out of this movie.6/10
How to begin this review, the only thing I can tell you is that sometimes I want a brainless comedy. We all need those movies that don't require us to think but just to laugh and have a good time. Rob Schneider, how do I even describe this guy? He's this weird actor who can have an occasional laugh, a rare fun role but for the most part usually ends up failing when it comes to holding his own. Giving him a lead role, it just wasn't the right time. Not to mention that this movie was just not funny, I'm not sure how to describe why it's not funny, let's start with how the boys who created this movie get the middle east confused with Africa, sigh. I'm assuming that Abyssinian is a tribute to the Arabian Nights, but then later the magical earrings that put our characters into peril, are sold in an African store, mm, my head hurts. I tried to watch this with an open mind, but I guess when Happy Madison production is behind this, what should I expect? I guess I'll just explain this story to you.The film begins in an Abyssinian castle in 50 BC, where a princess uses a pair of enchanted earrings to escape an arranged marriage by swapping bodies with a slave girl. The rest of the film is set in the modern-day suburban hometown of Jessica Spencer, a popular high-school girl, and her friends April, Keecia, and Lulu . April is Jessica's best friend, and all four girls are cheerleaders. Jessica and her friends visit the local mall, where Jessica gets her rival Bianca into trouble and finds the earrings in an African-themed store. The earrings are not for sale, so Jessica steals them. Shortly afterward, a small-time criminal named Clive robs a nearby gas station. When Jessica and her friends stop there and mistake him for an employee, he services their car to avoid raising suspicion. Jessica accidentally drops one of the earrings on the ground, and Clive picks it up after the girls drive away. That evening, in their respective homes, Jessica and Clive put on their earrings. When they wake up the next morning, each of them is trapped in the other's body. This is especially difficult for Jessica, who has a cheering competition and the school prom coming up soon.See one of the problems I have here is that Jessica's friends pretty much accept that their friend is a guy now pretty easily. And how do they use this advantage? Let's look at his penis! Why? Because it's funny? Honestly, I think this movie must have been written by a teenage girl because I don't know who else could find it funny. The Hot Chick had actually a decent enough story where this could have been very funny story, it was just put in the wrong hands. Give or take, I had a couple of chuckles, I've seen much worse. I thought it was pretty funny that Jessica's boyfriend thinks that Rob Schneider is hitting on him. Her boyfriend was the only character who had the honest reaction I expected when you hear that your significant other is now the opposite sex and looks like another person, it's unbelievable. The Hot Chick just turns into a typical teen comedy that didn't work, Rob isn't funny enough to lead and the story of her/his best friend falling in love with her/him was just odd. I'll be fair though with the rating, I felt like I was at a friend's play and just can't be too harsh on something that was relatively harmless.3/10
I just asked my friend that I'm speaking with through instant messenger if he had ever seen "Back to the Future" and he said "Yeah, who hasn't?", sadly, I never had the opportunity until tonite and he called me a failure as a movie buff, well, at least I've seen the movies now! Ha ha! I'm back on track! Well, obviously, this is my first review for the first Back to the Future and when I came her to IMDb, I knew this was a well loved movie, I was just amazed at it being on the top 250, but I can't give it a lower rating because Back to the Future was an excellent film that was ground breaking for it's time and still today.Marty McFly and his good friend, The Doc, are two science nuts. Marty isn't really happy with his home life and the fact that he and his parents are very square and strict, The Doc calls Marty and shows him his latest invention, his De Lauren that he built into a time machine. When the government go after The Doc and Marty has to get away, he jumps in the car and goes back to the year of 1955, when his parents met. Instead of the way his mom and dad met happening to his dad, he ends up being in the position and mom ends up falling for her son, not even knowing! But he has to make sure his parents are together in time so he can get back without altering the future.Back to the Future to this day is still a timeless treasure that I notice more and more is becoming part of a newer generation. Michael J. Fox should be proud, his work will be remembered for a long time. Back to the Future worked so well because of the great story and the humor was great, the whole cast worked together and made a terrific movie that will be looked back on thirty years from now and still be considered cool.10/10
I remember seeing the trailer for The Secret Life of Bees and honestly, the movie looked completely different than what I was expecting. I have not read the book, so I wasn't sure what to expect, but after watching The Secret Life of Bees, this story just touched my heart and I felt like this film couldn't have come out at a more perfect time than this year with our first bi-racial president. I think we always could use a history lesson or reminder of how far we have come these few decades. The actors, Queen Latifah and Dakota Fanning both pulled in beautiful performances and really make this film powerful and touching. Another surprise performance that I really enjoyed was Alicia Key's, I've never seen her in film before, but she did a great job. It's a strong drama that holds itself very well and is very heart warming.Lily is a young white girl in the 1960's southern America in the peak of racism. At only 14 years old she has a lot on her shoulders, she accidentally shot and killed her mother when she was just 4 years old, her father is extremely abusive, and her best friend is her black nanny who takes her into town and gets beat by several white men and is arrested for not apologizing afterwards. Lily breaks her out and runs away with her, they ask a black family for hospitality. The head of the house hold, August takes them in despite the suspicions from June and May, the other girls of the house. But Lily soon finds herself surprisingly when she least expected it and now has the most loving family in the world.The Secret Life of Bees is a charming film, I would say worth the price if you want to see it in the movie theater. This film reminds us of the little things and the happy feeling of love. Sounds cheesy, but it's true and honestly I think anyone could enjoy this movie if you open your heart up to it. The performances were great and the story is heart warming. Dakota is growing into a fine actress and held herself very well next to Queen Latifah. So I would recommend The Secret Life of Bees, I think somewhere down the line, this will be a little treasured classic.7/10
Boy, is there anything Tim Burton and Johnny Depp won't do together? This is the ultimate bromance I've ever heard of. Tim Burton is a good director, but even more of a great visualist and story teller. He has some really terrific and unique ideas and the reason he's praised by a lot of fans is because he's different and doesn't bend over for studios, he knows his audience and loves them. But when it comes to him remaking or rebooting something like Charlie and the Chocolate Factory, Planet of the Apes, Alice in Wonderlandhe's not as strong and focused. When he has his own ideas, he knows how to get the point across, but someone else's ideas, he doesn't seem to know how to take control and seems to be a fan boy more than how to keep the story straight. So he's given us Dark Shadows, a cult favorite show from the 70's. I didn't watch the entire TV series, but remember watching it as a kid on TV Land and loving the spooky feeling it gave me. Tim Burton instead of going with the dark story line, gives us The Addams Family Revisited.In 1760, Barnabas Collins is a wealthy playboy in Collinsport and is the master of Collinwood Manor. He breaks the heart of a witch, Angelique, who kills his parents, curses his family, and has his lover leap to her death from a nearby cliff and finally turns Barnabas into a vampire and buries him alive in a chained coffin in the woods. In 1972, Barnabas is accidentally freed from his coffin by a group of construction workers. He drains their blood and makes his way back to Collinwood Manor where he finds his once-magnificent mansion in ruin. The manor is currently occupied by Barnabas' dysfunctional descendants. Barnabas decides to restore his family name, but when Angelique discovers that he has escaped his shallow grave, she plots revenge and tries to win him back.There are good points in the film like Johnny Depp's performance, which he seemed to have a bit of fun with this role. Not his strongest performance, but much better than what he's been doing this past year. He just clicks better with stranger roles for some reason. Michelle Pfeiffer, who seriously must've sold her soul to the devil to look that amazing at 54 years old, does give it her all. The cinematography is just beautiful and the castle looks amazing and almost takes you back into the Hammer horror movies, speaking of which had a nice touch on having the film poster Dracula AD 1972 in the background at the movie theater and then have Christopher Lee being hypnotized by Johnny Depp. The jokes despite falling flat after a while provide a good laugh.We have an excellent cast and it feels like most of them really go to waste. Chloë Grace Moretz, who I really like, could've been a more interesting character but falls flat and randomly without explanation becomes a werewolf at the end. Jackie Earle Haley is a drunk, Helena Bonham Carter is a tired alcoholic hag who wants to live forever and Jonny Lee Miller is a greedy unclethat's it for their screen time. I would've loved to see more focus on the family vs. Barnabas and Angelique going at it every five minutes of her begging for him back and him saying no constantly. Tim Burton had some good ideas for this one, but like most of his remakes or reboots, he didn't fully get the original message and didn't know where to go with this one. He makes Barnabas into a monster, then wants you to love him because he's cursed and trying to be good, but then murders people who try to help him, but he's so good with his niece and nephew that you have to love him again. I'm not surprised that not as many people are liking this as they expected it would, from the trailer, this seemed a little too goofy and off from the original series. I was just hoping that Tim and Johnny would've put a little more thought into this one, we could've used a great reboot to this cool, but dated TV series. But given some credit, at least they used a real vampire, Alice Cooper, who is 140 years old and is still rocking like he's 20! 6/10
Religion, the conversation most people like to ignore or try to steer clear of because of the controversy it can bring and cause such a fight. Mainly to those who are referred to as "bible thumpers", the conversation can be a bit scary to some. I consider myself to be agnostic, baptized Catholic, I'm not sure what I believe. I've met several "bible thumpers" who have turned me off and make me laugh, I even had the ignorance to say "how could any intelligent person believe in this religion?" But I realized something, people believe different things and that's the way it is. Now every religion can't be wrong, but can every religion be right? I have this talk with my sister constantly, she considers herself to be an atheist and was constantly asking me if I had seen the movie "Religulous", so I finally watched it the other day. While I found it very funny and entertaining, there is one thing that kept me from saying this was a great movie, it was way too biased.Bill Mahr goes around the world discussing different religions. Their rules, beliefs, place of worship, etc. You name it, he asked about it: Catholicism, Mormon, Muslim, Jewish, Scientology, etc, he asks and gets the answers. The only thing is, while I completely agree with Bill's views, this documentary comes off a little too pushy and you can tell very edited. I've met people who have very strong beliefs in their religion, either agree, disagree or agree to disagree, they don't come off as idiots to me. Not to say that there are not people like that in Bill's movie, like the Puerto Rican man, Jesus who thinks that he is the second coming of Christ. People believe him and he takes their money and faith and just sucks it all up and spits it back at them. There are people who also say, my biggest pet peeve, "I will pray for you". To me, it's like you cannot come up with anything better to say, so they just hide behind God's skirt thinking that's a good answer to the conversation.So as far as documentaries go, Religulous may not have been what I was expecting but still entertained me. I just think that Bill should have explored more than just making fun of religion in general. While I am very anti Religion, it's not right to just trash other people's views. But this documentary did teach me some things I did not know about certain religions also the comparisons to other men who were similar to Jesus Christ. Who's to say what is beyond death? What will happen to us? I believe miraculous things do happen, I believe some people's faiths to be so strong that amazing things do happen to them. But as far as the man in the documentary who thinks that just because he prayed for rain and it happened, I think that was taking it to the extreme. My father said that he had a headache and he prayed for it to go away and it did, again, I highly doubt that out of the trillions of prayers that God must hear in a day, he has time for the weather or a headache. So when this movie comes into play, I think if you're Atheist or Agnostic, you will get a kick out of it, but others may find it offensive who have a strong faith.7/10
I am a huge fan of Kate Winslet, she is my favorite actress of all time, simply because she is possibly the most honest. It seems like she has the most natural talent and when she has a role she embraces it, recently I had a message from a IMDb user who asked me if I saw this film and if I hadn't, I should due to the fact that Kate was amazing in it. I also noticed it in my "1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die" book, so I had passed it over at Hollywood Video and figured to give it a look. I noticed also that it was directed by Peter Jackson who is now more famous due to the Lord of the Rings Trilogy, but I thought this film was really over looked and one of his finest. It's incredibly unique, artistic, and disturbing in some ways.Pauline is a out cast at school and she meets the new girl, Juliet, together they find out that they have a major thing in common, a wile imagination. They want to write a story together, they go as far as to call each other by their story names and spend time with each other constantly. But the parent's concerns grow more and more as the girls become a little more... "obsessive" of each other. Juliet's parents wish to send to her Africa to live with her aunt, but Juliet and Pauline do not want to let go of each other, and Pauline sees only one obstacle keeping them from seeing each other, her mom. So they devise an evil plan to get rid of her mom, permanently.Heavenly Creatures was incredibly unique and an amazing film. I couldn't believe my eyes watching this film, it was so interesting to watch, especially being in these girl's minds and imagination. Kate and Melanie had great chemistry and Peter Jackson made this film into his own. I would recommend it for movie buffs and definitely if you want to see how Kate got her start, she was amazing.9/10
Unfortunately, my video store that I rent at does not have the second Beverly Hills Cop or the third, so when I stopped by Best Buy and saw the sequel for $6.99, I thought it might be worth a buy. After watching this, I was very glad that I bought it. It was great to see our favorite Beverly Hills cop back in action! Eddie Murphy is just so great and hilarious, he can make Charles Manson laugh! Basically, Axel has heard of some horrible crimes going on in Beverly Hills once again, so he comes back to help out the force. With his two favorite cops, Billy and John, only this time, they're a little more gutsy. Now they are after the alphabet crimes, a group of thieves led by the 7 foot tall Bridget Neilson. But it's going to be hard with the chief of Beverly Hills always getting on the trio's butts.I loved Beverly Hills Cop 2, I hope I do find the third one, I know it doesn't have as good of a rating like the first or the second one, but still I love Eddie Murphy. Who could resist that great chuckle of his? Beverly Hills Cop 2 is filled with just as many laughs as the first one and I don't see how anyone could not laugh at least a few times.7/10
My mom and I have been on a Johnny Depp trip, so the next film on our list was Nick of Time. I watched it the other day and I have to say that I was so excited throughout the film, not to mention, it also stars one of the coolest actors ever, Chrisopher Walken! But the ending just left me with tons and tons of questions, my mom was just as puzzled. I just thought that while it's a good movie, it just lacked the rest of the story. It forgot to mention what happened to the characters and why they had motives. Also, I didn't like the way they developed Depp's character, why should I care about him so much? Just because he has a daughter doesn't mean he's a good person that I have to love or root for. Thank goodness they picked a likable actor though, other wise the story would have never worked.Gene Watson is walking with his daughter, we learn that his soon to be ex-wife died, but his day is about to get a thousand times worse when he is taken by who appears to be a cop. Mr. Smith, the cop, tells him that he has to kill a woman or he and his partner will kill his daughter. Lucky for Gene, the woman he's supposed to kill is the governor! Gene does whatever he can to get out of the situation, but its going to be more difficult when he finds out that almost everyone is involved in this attempt to assassinate.Nick of Time is over all a decent thriller, but it didn't necessarily excite me, I was a bit disappointed with the way they "developed" the characters and how it ended. It just left me with an empty feeling and a lot of questions. I love Christopher and Johnny so much and I really don't want to dislike this movie, but sometimes I guess the actors just get stuck with a bad director. Just the story needs some work, I wouldn't really recommend the movie though, it's just alright, I probably won't see it again though.5/10
I was kind of curious what Never Back Down was about, so I rented it, but after the rental I was thinking "Lemme guess... a new guy in a new school likes a girl... but she has a boyfriend... the boyfriend kicks his butt... boy is angry... boy goes to a street smart black guy who teaches him when to back down and fight well... a friend gets hurt by the big villain... boy fights guy once again with the big villain... boy gets girl... the end". Well, I hate to spoil things for you, but I was exactly right. These are beautiful white people who shouldn't have any problems since they're gorgeous and rich and powerful... but somehow have to create drama just to get some form of attention. This was an episode of The OC meets Super Sweet Sixteen trying to be the teenage form of Fight Club. This is a movie for the teenagers whose parents don't allow them to watch Fight Club, even then, I don't see why anyone would punish their child by seeing this movie.Even though I spoiled the movie, I'll do the best I can to make it sound entertaining. Jake is the new guy in a new school, his father was killed in a car accident and his mother and littler brother are trying to get back to normal. But Jake has anger issues, at his new school he meets Baja, a cute girl who invites him to a party where he meets the school's tough guy, Ryan, who is also Baja's boyfriend. Ryan kicks Jake's butt and humiliated, Jake's only friend Max tells him about Jean, a professional who teaches Jake to control his anger while fighting the good fight.Never Back Down is one of the most predictable movies I have seen and it's honestly stupid. The only reason I'm giving this movie a fair rating is because I think they did try, I don't think the director had bad intentions, but honestly, this is a trashy script that is just not impressive and is just another feel of popular TV shows that all those teens go crazy over. I wouldn't really recommend it, even for the teens, because I'd say that fighting movies are more for the adults... or at least the intelligent people who know better than rather how the fighting looks cool, let's imitate it and get severely hurt. But I'm going to be fair, I think a four should do it this time, but next time I may not be as generous, because these movies are getting more and more predictable.4/10
Remember back to some great comedies: Ferris Bueller's Day Off, Trading Places and Meet the Parents. Who made those films hilarious; Matthew Broderick, Eddie Murphy and Ben Stiller. Well, what if we put them in a movie together? I'm pretty sure it would equal goldor maybe not. We are presented with Tower Heist, which in my opinion didn't look like a terrible movie. I thought maybe people were just being a little harsh in the reviews since we haven't seen these actors in any great comedy movies for a while. After watching it, the reviews are not justified however this is a very average comedy made for the audience who occasionally goes to the movies. The plot has been done before and there are a million plot holes and unbelievable moments. But that being said, it's great to see these actors together and they pull in good performances to make the movie watchable.Josh Kovacs is the building manager of The Tower, a high-rise luxury apartment complex in New York City whose employees include Charlie, Enrique, Lester, Odessa, and Miss Iovenko, who furtively studies for her bar exam at work. One morning Josh sees what appears to be a kidnapping of Tower tenant and wealthy businessman Arthur Shaw. Josh gives chase and almost catches him when he is knocked over by FBI agent Claire Denham. Denham explains that Shaw wasn't being kidnapped, he was attempting to flee arrest. Josh tells the Tower staff about Shaw's arrest and explains that he gave Shaw their pension fund to invest, and their money is gone. Josh now wants to get revenge for all the money Allen took from his employees, and with the help of his colleges and a clever thief from the neighborhood, they just might be able to pull of a great heist.Overall, I'd say that Tower Heist is worth the watch, it's nothing special, it's bland at times and forgettable. But there are a few chuckles here and there. I like how all the actors played off each other, new and old comedic actors alike they did the best they could. Like most heist movies there is always a little suspense and fun action. But you do have to have a lot of suspension in disbelief. There is a car that is made out of pure gold and yet somehow can hang by a couple of metal wires with added human weight on it. Not to mention how they get the car up to the roof and through the building was beyond impossible at the time rate the group was given. Of course there is a contrived romance that goes on between Stiller and Leoni that makes no sense and is out of place. The jokes are very low impact, no laugh out loud moments. I think with veteran comedic actors like Murphy, Stiller and Broderick, you would expect a little something and I think that was what made the film an overall disappointment. Is it the worst movie I've ever seen? No, not by a long shot. I think it was worth the watch, it's just very bland and I don't think I'll be rushing to see it again any time soon.4/10
I wasn't so sure about seeing Menace II Society, see, my problem is that I think that the kids who dress and act like "gangstas" always complain about how they are treated and how they are always going to be treated when it seems like they don't even try to improve themselves. Menace II Society gave me a different look to that thought and how scary it must be to be there, to survive making it to 18 years old is just a huge accomplishment. Still, it frightens me how much we haven't changed, how these kids still kill each other like there's a war on. It breaks my heart that if one feels insulted they just go in a car and shoot somebody like a coward and runs off.Caine has had a very rough life, he grew up in the ghetto with his drug addicted parents and when his father and mother dies, he lives with his grandparents. But that doesn't stop him from leading a life of stealing, sex, drugs, and murder. In a life where some are proud of the way they act and kill, he's the minority when he thinks there is more to life than this. But he joins in feeling there is no other way out until his friend invites him to get out with her and her son, but it may be too late to turn back now after all he did.Menace II Society is a great film with very thought provoking messages. When the grandfather said to Caine if he cared if he lived or died, it just broke my heart to think what the grandparents were going through knowing their grandson could die before they did. I think this is a very important film, it doesn't go over the top and it doesn't rub the gangsta life in your face, it just gives you a certain view of how scary it is to think there may be no way back.8/10
Valkryie, a movie that takes on the closest assassination to Adolf Hitler, being such a huge history buff, sadly I knew how this was going to end. I love walking out of the theater hearing the teenagers go "What the heck?! I thought Hitler was going to die!", I bow my head in shame. I know that there were a lot of people who had a thing about Tom Cruise being the leading man, which I have to admit I had a few questions, but you cannot deny despite his madness, he is a good actor over all. I admit he can be cocky, but he got the film done with pretty decent taste. I just have to laugh though because in this film we have every kind of accent there is: American, English, German, EVEN POLISH! A Polish Nazi? LOL, I'm sure that history must be proud of this movie. But over all it's a decent representation of the attempted assassination of Adolf Hitler.During World War II, Wehrmacht Colonel Claus von Stauffenberg is severely wounded in Tunisia, and is evacuated home to Nazi Germany. Meanwhile, Major General Henning von Tresckow attempts to assassinate Adolf Hitler by smuggling a bomb aboard the Führer's private airplane. The bomb, however, fails to detonate and Tresckow safely retrieves it to conceal his intentions. After learning that the Gestapo has arrested General Hans Oster, he orders General Olbricht to find a replacement. After recruiting von Stauffenberg into the German Resistance, Olbricht delivers von Stauffenberg to a meeting of the secret committee which has coordinated previous attempts on Hitler's life. The members include General Ludwig Beck, Dr. Carl Goerdeler , and Erwin von Witzleben. The Colonel is stunned to learn that no plans exist for after Hitler's assassination. After a bombing raid on Berlin, he lights upon using the plan Operation Valkyrie, which involves the deployment of the Reserve Army to maintain order in the event of a national emergency. The plotters carefully redraft the plan so that they can dismantle the Nazi regime after assassinating Hitler, by overthrowing the SS and imprisoning Hitler's closest advisors. Realizing that only General Fromm, the head of the Reserve Army, can initiate Valkyrie, they offer him a position as head of the Wehrmacht in a Post-Nazi Germany and recruit him into the fold: however, Fromm initially refuses. With the rewritten plan needing to be signed off by Hitler himself, von Stauffenberg visits the Führer at his Berghof estate in Bavaria. In the presence of his inner circle, Hitler praises von Stauffenberg's heroism in North Africa not realizing the Colonel's true intentions.Besides the accents and the A-list actors, honestly this could've been a made for TV film. It's not exactly the hit I think the studio was hoping for. Normally most WWII films are a big hit, but the problem was the advertising, the trailer I felt was a bit inappropriate, and the actors, I felt that this if not made in German should have just been with English actors or all American because all the accents were throwing me off. But the film is definitely worth the watch, I just suggest if you are ignorant when it comes to history, please for the love of God, do some research before watching a film like this, not just because Tom Cruise is in it.7/10
When I was a kid, my father and I constantly watched all the James Bond films together, I always loved every adventure James got into, the women, the villains, the gadgets, everything about James Bond just equals fun and excitement. But the later James Bond films haven't been so pleasant to watch, so I just stayed clear of Casino Royale. But I heard nothing but good things about Casino Royale, so I decided to go ahead and see what this movie was going to be like. So I rented it, I watched it last night and I wasn't expecting anything special, but I really loved Casino Royale, it was so different than what we are used to with our James Bond films. Not to mention Daniel Craig, the James Blonde, I know a lot of people were having doubts, for those who haven't seen this, watch it, Daniel will definitely take your doubts away.James Bond in his first years as an agent has his first major assignment. He is the best card player in the organization, so his boss, M, sends him to beat a mafia boss, Le Chiffre, who is taking so much money. James is set up with Vesper, a foxy beautiful woman who is the head of Treasury, and is pretending to be his wife during this whole charade. But when Le Chiffre is onto Bond and Vesper, they may wanna think about not being a secret agent so much any more.Casino Royale goes where no other James Bond movie has gone before, it's a lot more darker, it's more realistic, even though you know that these gadgets are over the top, they seem like they could exist. The actors are just top notch, we have Dame Judi Dench who's Bond's boss, she was a great addition to the franchise. Eva Green was a great Bond girl and her last scene was beautifully shot; I was really impressed with the editing, the action scenes, the movie shots, everything about this movie was just great and was so much fun to watch, it's pure entertainment, I highly recommend it.8/10
I remember when Moulin Rouge came out in 2001, it was the movie that I had refused to see, it just never really did appeal to me. But my mom bought me a three pack DVD of the "Romantic Tales", Romeo and Juliet, Ever After, and Moulin Rouge! Now I saw Romeo and Juliet and Ever After, figuring, what the heck? I'll give Moulin Rouge a go, I watched it tonite and I have to say that this film is a thousand times better than what I thought it was going to be. Moulin Rouge is visually spectacular and the music is a lot of fun, the actors looked like they had the time of their lives making this film. This is the musical that are the ultimate must see's, it had the perfect amount of fun, magic, romance, and passion. Ewan McGregor and Nicole Kidman had sizzling chemistry and were just beautiful on the screen together, they brought the Moulin Rouge to life and made it an unforgettable experience.Christian is a struggling poet who comes to Paris to find some inspiration during the revolution. He goes to the deep underworld of theater where poor and rich alike could discover the Moulin Rouge! A fun club starring radiant and beautiful Satine. Satine and Christian have a passionate love affair together and dream of running away together, but Satine is loved by another man, the duke, who could keep the Moulin Rouge alive if she returns the love back. But she's so in love with Christian, they try to keep their relationship quiet, but things become more horrible when Satine finds out about a fatal illness and is struggling to love Christian and try to keep her club jamming.Moulin Rouge the sets, the costumes, the lights, everything about this film is just so much fun to watch. When I first started watching it, I was a little thrown off, I'm sure you will be too, but just keep going with the film, you'll fall in love with it too. Nicole Kidman was just absolutely stunning, she was the perfect choice for Satine. Ewan McGregor had an amazing voice and once again, I don't think there could have been a better choice, I loved their last scene together, it's beautifully acted, well, I'm not going to give it away, just trust me. I recommend Moulin Rouge, it's a fun musical that is guaranteed to give you a good time.9/10
My boyfriend and I had nothing to see yesterday, but I noticed Doomsday and I remember seeing a trailer for it, it looked pretty cool. So we decided to see it and just relied on IMDb's rating and I have to say that I really liked it. While it kinda relies on what other films have already done, this film still kicks butt! I was so on the edge of my seat during the entire film, it was such an exciting story and is non-stop on the action. I tell you, I know everyone is crazy about Angelina Jolie in Tomb Raider, Rhona Mitra, this girl i going to give Angelina a run her money. I've seen this girl really develop in the films since Hollow Man and The Life of David Gale where she had pretty mediocer roles, but she has such a presence and is so believable as a tough girl, she's just awesome in Doomsday. While it's not the most original story, it's still a great one to watch with amazing effect.Eden is living in a rough world, set in 2035, she was ripped away from her mother very young, and now is in an army fighting a virus war that has wiped away more than half of England is coming back and attacking her city. The government sends her and several others outside "the wall", they are going to find the cure for the disease. Instead, they find themselves in a world of rebels who are going to kill them for what they did 30 years ago by abandoning them during the high time of the virus. Eden and her team are brutally attacked, she has to find the leader of the land, Kane. She escapes with Kane's daughter and goes back to the mid evil times almost, instead of it being the future, a group has decided to use mid evil armor and horses and castles to improve their society. Eden and her surviving crew finally make it back but now have to deal with the government that is abandoning their country.Doomsday is without a doubt a really fun action movie, one of the better one's of 2008. While it's a little over done, it's one of those movies that needs the fun effects and over the top dialog, it's just a fun apocalypse movie. I loved Rhona, she was so awesome when she was facing Kane and said that she would kill the soldier where he stood, god, she's so great! The story is great and the action is terrific, I highly recommend Doomsday, it's a fun movie and guaranteed fun.7/10
I saw the remake of "Guess Who" a couple months ago with Bernie Mac and Ashton Kutcher, it was an alright comedy that was more offensive than funny at times. But I noticed when I commented on it that it was a remake of the 1967 classic "Guess Who's Coming to Dinner". I saw it over at Hollywood Video and figured since there were such great actors starring in it, I would give it a shot. The interesting thing to me is the fact that I'm not sure if this movie would be considered "acceptable" in today's world because it would be considered too "edgy". But I'm extremely glad that I had the opportunity to see this film because it was so beautifully done and very well handled by it's cast and crew. It actually made me cry because I don't think our society has changed much. But the story is a very important one.Joey and John are two young people who are very madly in love, so much so that they want to marry right away. But John wants Joey's parents approval, he's a respectable young man: intelligent, kind, polite, and extremely handsome and also a black man. That's right, it's a biracial relationship in the 60's, where a marriage between these two is actually illegal in some states. Joey's parents have always taught her to respect all races and that she is just as equal as them, but they never mentioned how hard it might be to be married to a black man. John's parents join in for the dinner proving this to be an extremely hard time for the couple's happy future.Guess Who's Coming to Dinner is a fantastic movie with extremely moving performances from every actor in the film, I mean, they couldn't have picked a more perfect cast. The dialog was so extremely moving and at times humorous. I liked the scene where the delivery boy leaves with the maid's helper and they just dance their way down the drive way. I would highly recommend this movie, it's an important and over looked story, definitely a must see over Guess Who.9/10
You know not many horror movies can survive a franchise and it seems like The Texas Chainsaw Massacre is one of those movies that just couldn't be lifted from the ground with decent sequels. The second movie as silly as it was had it's occasional moments where as crazy as they were you could just try to slide past them and just enjoy the movie. However I did see The Return of the Texas Chainsaw Massacre before I watched this movie, that movie made me wonder how the heck Renée Zellweger and Matthew McConaghey had any kind of career afterwards, believe me it was that bad. So I wasn't so sure how I would handle this movie but figured to give it a fair chance. Even though it's not as bad that movie, it's still not exactly that good. You could tell that the series really took a bad turn at this point. First off I do want to rant a little bit, I got the unrated version of this movie and how in the heck was that unrated? There is barely any blood and even though there is violence, however this still seems very tame as we don't see anyone get chainsawed. I don't know about those who also have this DVD but I feel like I got gypped. Ken Foree is the only thing that made this movie a good time because the two leads didn't exactly carry the movie very well. Michelle and her boyfriend Ryan are both traveling through Texas. At a gas station, they meet a hitchhiking cowboy named Tex and the station's perverted owner Alfredo. Tex shows Ryan a route on the map that can get them to a town. A fight soon breaks out between Tex and Alfredo. As Michelle and Ryan flee from the station in their car. As night falls, Ryan and Michelle, having taken the route Tex recommended, become lost. As Ryan changes their car's flat tire on the road, Michelle, hears a noise, and Leatherface ambushes the two of them. Now they are in for a night of terror with another survivor who just might give the crazy cannibal family a run for their chainsaws.Viggo Mortenson, he's such a baby in this movie, I mean looks wise, it's just weird to see where your roots start I suppose. But again I guess we all have to start somewhere like Renée and Matthew did with that silly movie. The two leads are what really killed the movie since they were beyond terrible and not even in a good way. Plus I wasn't crazy about the family with Leatherface, the house seemed a little too nice for cannibal serial killers and they're not meant to have the whole Hannibal the Cannibal vibe with being first class. I don't know where the little girl came from, was she meant to be the daughter of Leatherface? I'm not sure where the mom came from and the grandpa I'm pretty sure that he's stinking up the house since he's been dead for over a decade. However I did enjoy Viggo and Ken's characters, they seemed to be the only actors having fun and maybe that's why they have careers. I'm not sure if I would recommend this film, it has it's moments and if you want to see the whole series, I would say that it's not a total skip. But just don't expect a treasure, I think it's one of those films you have to let go a little and have fun. But my recommendation to others and myself is to write an angry letter to the DVD company for the unrated non violence. Believe me, compared to Saw -which granted maybe hardened our generation a little more- makes this look like Winnie the Pooh. And also keep our chainsaw gritty, we hardcore fans like our cannibal family riding in trailer trash pick up trucks with the crazy chicken feathers flying while listening to the pleasant rusty roar of our beloved chainsaw.3/10
OK, I just finished The Chamber of Secrets, whoo! That was a long movie! But I can understand, these are long books, these movies have a lot to fit into. But I have to say that actually I think I enjoyed Chamber of Secrets a little more than The Sorcerer's Stone. It had more humor and a lot more chilling action sequences. The Chamber of Secrets is a great continue of the sequels to come I'm sure. I loved the new characters, Professor Gilderoy Lockhart was my favorite, but I'm a huge fan of Kenneth's, so I think I just am a soft touch for him.Harry is about to start a new year at Hogwarts, looking forward to seeing his friends again, Ron and Hermione, getting back into the spells. But he is warned by Dobby, a house elf that there is danger ahead. As it turns out he's right, there is a creature that is after the "mudbloods", wizards who were not born from magic, had normal parents. Also there is Tom Riddle who wants to make sure that his memory will live forever and Voldebolt's as well.The Chamber of Secrets was great for me. I thought it had great characters, great magical effects, and is brilliantly made. I have to say that I'm more impressed and am very glad I'm giving these movies a chance since we have like 12 more coming up, lol. Although the kid, Malfroy is a bit annoying, I'm looking forward to The Prisoner of Azkaban, it has an even better rating, so please IMDb users, don't let me down, I hope you're right. 8/10
My boyfriend and I were at a DVD store the other day and he saw the big special edition of "Porky's" and was like "I loved this movie so much, isn't it so funny?" and I just looked at him and was like "Ummm, I never saw it" and he just looked at me like my hair fell out. He said this was such a classic and that I shouldn't call myself a movie buff if I hadn't seen this film. So I took his advice, I rented it, and watched it this morning. I know he's gonna hate me because to be honest, I didn't really find it that funny. It just seemed like a typical teen sex comedy that was more gross and unrealistic than actual comedy. But I admit that I did have a couple of laughs here and there, the story wasn't really that bad.Basically a bunch of boys in high school are determined to get laid. Some have been laid before, but there is a guy they call Pee-Wee, understandably by his lack of a package, they take him to a strip joint called Porky's. There they give the owner, Porky, a hundred dollars to have the strippers for an hour, but Porky tricks the boys and ends up humiliating them instead. So throughout the movie one of the boys keeps going back to get revenge and finally they all just do it together for the ultimate revenge tactic.Porky's did have a few funny scenes, like the "love" scene between the coach and Honeywell, played by a very young Kim Catrell, her screaming was so hilarious. Then the female gym teacher going after the boys because they were teasing the girls in the locker room through the peep holes, she was pretty funny. Over all, I wouldn't say that Porky's is at all a bad film, it has it's moments here and there, but I'd rather stick with other teen sex comedies, but this one is worth a look if you're into them.4/10
Oh, wow, um, where do I even begin with this movie? I suppose I could tell you how I heard of it, like most people I heard about this movie from an internet reviewer(the Nostalgia Critic). I honestly would've never heard of this film either, probably would have never seen it. But after the clips I saw, I HAD to see this movie, I went on Amazon.com immediately afterwards and ordered it. Now I knew this movie was going to be bad, but I HAD NO IDEA! I think it's one of those movies that had to be handled in clips because I cannot tell you all the safety precautions you should take before watching this movie. My boyfriend tried to commit suicide while I just wanted to find Tommy Wiseau and do some things that even the Dark One would look at me and say "geez, take it easy on the guy". I cannot even describe how this movie is bad. The acting is like the actors are literally reading the script for the first time. Tommy Wiseau's acting, I don't know if there's a word for how bad it is so we'll just say it's "aguwaba", also it seems his voice was dubbed over. Now I thought this was because maybe he only speaks one language that isn't English, but he speaks with this stupid indefinable accent all the time, so why is his dubbing the same way? Where is he from? Brazil, Romania, France? I have no idea.Lisa has become inexplicably dissatisfied with her fiancé Johnny, confiding to her best friend Michelle and her mother Claudette that she finds him boring. Lisa seduces Johnny's best friend Mark, and they begin an affair that continues throughout the film, even as Mark more than once tries to break it off. As the wedding date approaches and Johnny's clout at his bank slips, Lisa gets closer to leaving Johnny for Mark. When Lisa throws Johnny a surprise birthday party, she flaunts her affair in front of Johnny, and Johnny and Mark get into two altercations. Johnny has also attached a tape recorder to the telephone, recording an intimate call between his future wife and Mark. Now that Johnny is "fed up with this world", feeling like he cannot trust anyone, he pulls the ultimate punishment in self loathing to himself but a true gift to the audience.This movie is just incredible that it was made, I didn't think it was possible to make a film so bad. It's like it's a new genre, just a bad movie. Sub plots get brought up out of no where in this movie and never get brought up again. Characters get brought up and again never mentioned. The script, story, characters, editing, setting, everything was just wrong with this movie. Also Tommy Wiseau's name is mentioned 6 times before the film even begins and his character is of course "perfect" that everyone should just love him. Lisa, who is very odd looking, is constantly called "sexy" which either has a new definition or is ironic. Mark is a doof ball that probably thinks that penguins are fish, because he's just that stupid. Denny is a perverted 15 year old who wants to watch Johnny and Lisa make love and constantly says how in love with Lisa he is and how he loves Johnny. Also there is so many pointless love scenes, football scenes, gift giving scenes, lines, if there was a drinking game on the pointless scenes for this film, you'd die of alcohol poisoning by the end of this movie. I don't know, it is one of those films you have to see to believe, but I can tell you one thing for sure, if Tommy Wiseau thinks we're laughing with him, he should check that we're actually laughing at him.1/10
You know I'm going to feel really bad writing this review. Yogi Bear is a movie that was totally meant for kids and not to mention that I got to meet Dan Aykroyd during his promotion of the film and he said he hoped that everyone would enjoy the film and that this meant a lot to him. Now normally I say that if it's a kid's film, it's a kid's film, it was meant for a specific audience. But my problem is that this was too basic even for a kid's movie. I don't care if a kid's movie is predictable, but Yogi Bear seemed lazy and didn't want to try to be entertaining. All the adults in the film were total idiots, now granted this is a movie about a talking bear, but seriously, why can't we have normal people in movies like this? Remember Home Alone? Where the burglars were stupid but also could be intimidating at the same time and actually seemed real? We don't get that any more and the characters were just so lame and I felt like they were trying to teach a kindergarten class with their voices and body language. I think this movie was doomed from the get go because no one thought the film out and were only thinking of the money.The city Mayor is losing money and he needs to find some place losing money so he can earn it, so he picks Jellystone Park. When he comes to visit Ranger Smith and Jones he says if they do not get enough money then Jellystone will be shut down. Ranger Smith then tells Yogi and Boo Boo about the closing of Jellystone. Yogi then tells Smith that he has an idea to raise money and that is a firework show. So the next day they are all putting up invitations so that everybody can enjoy how wonderful Jellystone is. The Mayor tells Ranger Jones that is he were to make this firework show turn into a nightmare then he would make him the head ranger of Jellystone. So Smith tells Yogi and Boo Boo but mostly Yogi to stay out of the way. So then Jones finds out that Yogi can mess things up and encourages him to do his own act. Then Yogi messes it up when hes water skiing and he lights himself on fire and hits the fireworks and making them go all over the crowd. Jellystone closes and Smith is relocated to a park the size of 3 cars. Yogi realizes what he did and leaves but then Boo Boo finds him and convinces him to find Smith and save the park.Like I said I feel really bad giving this film a low rating, but this is not a family film in my opinion. This is totally 100% a kid's film and the age range I would say is very low, maybe for 6 or below. The animation was decent enough and Dan and Justin actually did the voices pretty well, I wouldn't deny the film that. But I used to watch the cartoon as a child on the Cartoon Network, there is a certain camp value with being hand drawn. I don't think Hannah Barbara meant for their cartoons to be turned into CGI. I think with the success of Alvin and the Chipmunks, a trend is starting with turning childhood classic cartoons into CGI adaptations with adult leads who are beyond stupid and villains who you wish were around in the real world because if they were, crime would be down very much considering how easily they could get caught. I apologize to Mr. Aykroyd because I know that he said he put his heart into this, but maybe he's the only one who did and that was the problem because this film really can't be enjoyed by everyone, I'd even say for my future kids, I would want them to watch something a little more intelligent.3/10
