it happens in Antartica. Kate Beckingsale, whom I think is great on screen, plays a US Marshall in Antartica. Just a few days before she plans to leave before the winter, a murdered man turns up as well as another murder. She is trying to solve the murders before the winter storms come. She is helped by a UN officer. I thought it was pretty easy to guess who the bad guy would turn out to be. But, I liked the outside scenes and being chased by a ice pick guy while trying to run attached to a rope in high winds and snow.The stupid scene of the film has to be when Carrie, Robert, and Delfy are all in the hole and go in the plane. Would it not make sense for one person to stay on top in case the ice caves in, which it did. About 99 percent of the time, people would be dead in that situation, but this is a movie and over half was left when it happened, so you knew they would find a way out.FINAL VERDICT: OK, easy to guess the killer, but it was entertaining enough.
I admit, I didn't get it. I thought it didn't make sense. I did sort of get the past scenes with Tom as a conquistador and the present as a scientist searching for a cure for his wife's brain tumor. But the future Tom made no sense. Being in outer space, a giant tree, surrounded by a ball; it was plain silly. And why this movie did poorly at the box office. Was it supposed to be the exact same Tom as a conquistador and in the present or just his spirit the same? And what about Izzy? Was it the same woman or spirit or soul or whatever? FINAL VERDICT: I did not like this at all. Definitely one of the worst sci-fi films I've seen in a while.
despite the efforts of her mother. Penelope was born with a family curse, the nose and ears of a pig. Legend says that in order to break the curse, one of her own must love her. They assume she must marry another blue blood like the family she comes from. Her mother faked her death in order to keep her hidden from the world. But when Penelope becomes of age, her mother begins bringing potential husbands. She tells Penelope to hide behind a mirror while she interviews potential suitors, but every time she shows her face, they run away in fear. A pint sized reporter hears of the pig faced girl and he wants a picture. He hires Max, a blue blood that has wasted his inheritance on gambling. Of course Max and Penelope hit if off,and he just doesn't run away after seeing her. But Max has a secret and he doesn't think he's good enough for Penelope. Penelope runs away from home and becomes independent for the first time in her life. Will she learn that her nose isn't so bad after all?Meanwhile, Edward, who comes from a wealthy family, proposes to Penelope in order to restore his family image. He really can't stand her. Will Penelope say I DO as her mother wants? Her mother tells her this is the only chance to break the curse. But is it? I usually like Christina Ricci in anything, and this is no exception. She was entertaining as Penelope as well as James Mcavoy as Max.FINAL VERDICT: I thought this was a cute film. It's a good pick for the young teen crowd.
This movie was nothing unique; the same ole romantic comedy starring 2 big stars. It did have a few laughs; hey it is comical for a 35 year old guy to live with his parents and when he's ready to end a relationship, he brings the girl over. The 2 best roles were Tripp's parents, played by Bradshaw and Bates. Those 2 were very amusing together. Parker and McConaughey were lack luster together. SJP is too old for Mathew McConaughey. They sure didn't look like a couple in love.And what was with all the animal attacks, a dolphin, chipmunk, etc... It wasn't funny and I'm still not sure why it was included.FINAl VERDICT: Very bland. Only see it if you have to see all romantic comedies that come out.
I thought the whole story behind this movie was boring. There was just a bunch of useless fighting, with silly special effects, and it's like who cares. The characters are not memorable. I didn't like any of them. And the movie ends setup for a sequel and according to IMDb, there is no sequel in development yet. That shows how bad this movie was, no one wants another version. Even the flying creature is a rip off from the Never Ending Story. The boy wonder in this mainly can summon up the wind and create gusts of wind. How exciting, but if there is a sequel he will learn to control water, earth and fire.FINAL VERDICT: Just silly.
It's been a while since a good romantic comedy has been released and I think this one was pretty good. It had some funny scenes like Beth trying to break the vase at her sister's wedding, the magic scenes with Jon Heder, and Dax Shepherd as the full of himself male model. I also liked the premise of the story with Beth being in Rome and picking up some coins from a fountain of love. By doing so, she releases a spell that the guys who threw the coins in the fountain, will fall in love with her. So, she goes back to New York, and starts being followed by some weirdos professing their love. However she met one guy at the wedding, Nick, that she really likes. The big mystery is was one of the coins she took one Nick tossed. Circumstances lead Beth to think one of the coins is his, so she believes he really doesn't love her out of free will. But true love prevails in the end.FINAL VERDICT: A sweet short film. I recommend it.
I remember when Spy Kids first came out. I really liked it. Of course, I was also a kid back then. This movie isn't for anyone over the age of 15. It's filled with barf and gas jokes, the older crowd will be just disgusted by it because they aren't funny. And there wasn't a whole lot of cool spy devices in this. Seeing a spy on a mission carrying her baby around is just too much on the silly side.The dog was cute, he should have been the babysitter. Jeremy Piven wasn't much of a villain as Tick Tock. He's trying to steal time and as we find out it's because of his tragic childhood.FINAL VERDICT: Not worth it
The computer graphics in this film reminded me of a video game. They are good and look realistic for the most part. And since you aren't dealing with real actors, it made the fighting scenes a little more adventurous. I thought the sexual jokes weren't needed, I mean they are cartoon characters.In the movie, Beowulf is ready to accept King Hrothgar's challenge to kill Grendel. Grendel looks more human in the movie than usually depicted in other films. So, Beowulf fights him naked for some reason, because that is not in the poem. So, there is always some strategic placed object when showing Beowulf from the front or a dark shadow. I don't get why they had him take off his pants. He kills Grendel but then is seduced by his mother, whom is voiced by the beautiful Anjelina Jolie. Her character is drawn to resemble Jolie's face. He makes a deal with the mother, and is given the Kingdom. Some how the a charm was placed on Hrothgar and he kills himself. I don't think that was in the poem.One day, Beowulf's son shows up in the form of a dragon. What!!! How does that happen. So, the last part is him battling a dragon.FINAL VERDICT: Pretty good, I recommend it if you like adventure movies.
After finally watching this over hyped film, I don't get why people think it is really good. I thought it was barely watchable because it was so boring. I don't get all the award nomination nor how Jennifer Lawerence could win an Oscar for this role. There was nothing outstanding about her character, Tiffany, to warrant a stand out role. And the worst part was the lack of chemistry between Bradly Cooper and Jennifer Lawerence. First he looks 20 years older than her, and why would a depressed widow want to hook up with a bipolar manic who has melt downs. Simple, it wouldn't happen.The movie is about released mental patient, Pat, goes home and is obsessed with his estranged wife. He has mental break downs and meats Tiffany whom knows his wife. He agrees to be in a dance contest with her if she will give the wife a letter. And that's the story. Nothing much happens.FINAL VERDICT: A big waste of time and it certainly wasn't one of the best films of the year. Skip it.
There wasn't anything scary about this movie. And it didn't have a good ending. It was too vague. The movie starts 10 years earlier when a man kills his daughter right before she turns 18. It is now in the present and we meet Molly Hartley, a 17 year old, that hears things and has strange dreams, like the other girl. She has emotional issues since her mother tried to kill her, saying she was saving her. Molly has panic attacks and has visions of her mother. She gets diagnosed with a nasal tumor, so she thinks she really isn't crazy. But the strange things still happen and at the end she finds out the people she met in the new town aren't whom they seem to be.The problem was at the end, we don't know what Molly becomes. I was disappointed.FINAL VERDICT: Nothing great.
Before watching this, I had no idea it was a horror story about a vampire. But the vamp is a pre-teen instead of in high school. The story was slow moving but creepy as we get short snipits of what Abby is like in her other form. There is also a brutal murder in the beginning that had me saying, "what!!!" But later it makes sense. Abby has just moved to a new place and befriends another kid, Owen. She tells him they can't be friends, but soon forgets that. But, when Owen sees her doing strange things, he basically over looks it since she's his only friend. There's also a gruesome pouring acid on your head scene. But this movie is more about the characters and acting then gory parts.FINAL VERDICT: Different take on vampire movies. Worth seeing.
There's a lot of blood spewing everywhere and a lot of sword slashing, but the story wasn't that good. A half human and half vampire, Rayne, hunts vampires and wants revenge on the vampire that raped and killed her mother. She joins forces with vampire hunters. That's about it.Michelle Rodriguez was terrible. She had this British accent and was just silly with that permanent scowl she seems to have. And I guess Ben Kingsly took this part for the pay check. And why can't Michael Madson find better roles than this. And Loken has her obligatory porn moment.FINAL VERDICT: Script just doesn't cut it. Watch it if you want to see a lot of fake blood flowing everywhere.
This movie was pretty good. I wouldn't call it a typical western; it was more about the relationship between cattle rancher, Dan, and outlaw, Ben Wade. Christian Bale and Russell Crowe are both good in this and what make the movie better than average. I liked the way they made Ben seem like this cold blooded killer, but for some reason he had some respect for Dan. Maybe he envied Dan for what he had.There were a few things I didn't quite get. Like, why did Ben Wade just let himself be captured? Was he tired of running or was it because he liked a challenge? Maybe he wanted to escape from Yuma a third time. And at the end, why did he decide to try to help Dan succeed in getting him on the train. Did he really not want his gang to rescue him? And why was his gang just shooting randomly when trying to save Ben. They could have just as easily shot him.FINAL VERDICT: I suggest watching it if you like Bale or Crowe. But I'm sure some will find this movie boring. I didn't.
and this does not disappoint in that department. I think the first Saw was overall a better film and a much more surprising twist. Instead of a delima between people, jigsaw has set up a game involving a group of people who much escape a house that is filling with nerve gas. First, they must find an antidote or they will be die before leaving. Jigsaw is caught early in the film and his interrogation plays a big role in his "game". He wants to teach Detective Mathews a lesson. It seems all the people in the house have something in common, they were set up by Matthews by planting evidence. And as part of the game, Jigsaw has included Matthews delinquent son as part of the house game.Once again, there are some imaginative deaths and creepy choices. Do you crawl into a furnace? What about a pit of needles? And the game Matthews must play at the end with the saw blade and being chained to the wall was all the more great.FINAL VERDICT: I recommend it. While not as good as the first, still very entertaining.
but it just didn't work. I didn't think this movie was worth a flip. I felt like I was watching one of Swarsnegger's(sp?) early films. Lots of action, guns, explosion, with little dialog and plot. Sorry, Timothy Olymphant, whom by the way is trying to look like Billy Zane in this for some reason, is not a big enough star to carry a film that has no plot and is just there for the fighting and shooting. About the only thing I understood is that Agent 47 is hired to do a hit and it doesn't go right and his employers double cross him and he has these secret agent guys trying to kill him. And for some reason he picks up a hot girl to drag along because she was a witness when he first tried to fulfill his assassination.FINAL VERDICT: Terrible, poor story and action.
I love Hugh Jackman and the character of the Wolverine, but this movie was terrible. It starts out cool with Logan in Japan during World War II and saving the life of Yashida. Then it's present time and Logan is living in rural area. Yukio, working for Yashida, brings Logan to Japan where the rest of the story takes place. Yashida wants Logan's ability to heal and live for many many years, since he is dieing. He hires Viper to steel Logan's healing power. Also Logan is protecting Yashida's granddaughter, Mariko. So a lot of the movie is the bad guys chasing Mariko and Logan protecting her but without all of his abilities. And then you could see the surprise ending coming a mile away with Yashida. The whole story was just not that good.FINAL VERDICT: Wolverine is better in the X-Men films then this. You can skip this.
This movie was so bad, even a lot worse than the first one. At least the first one was OK and had its moments, but this movie all the jokes just fell flat and where just silly and sometimes disgusting. When a movie starts with a deer spraying urine all over someone, you know that the movie just doesn't have much. Then of course there was the gross scene of the guy fixing the ice cream machine and chocolate ice cream leaking out. And what's funny about a dad breaking his own son's leg. The only amusing thing was the car wash scene with the hot chicks and guys wearing short shorts. But even that was too much.FINAL VERDICT: Watch at your own risk, but best to avoid.
This movie was terrible. Nothing was funny. The only good thing I will say is the girl that played Becca had Kristen Stewart's weird pouty faces down. The movie combines elements of the first two Twilight movies. It just kinda bounces around and when they need to, they make up their own plot lines. For example, Becca doesn't go to Italy, instead the ancient vamps show up to their vampire themed prom. As a side note, Frank, Becca's dad, is played by Jethro Bodine from the Beverly Hill Billies move from the 1990s. When I first heard that guy speak, I was like, that sounds like Jethro, so I looked it up on IMDb.FINAL VERDICT: Only watch if you want to see what one of the worst movies ever made looks like.
I didn't really care for this movie. It wasn't entertaining enough; nothing more than a silly video game. Some how this guy, Sam, goes into a video game (which I still don't understand how he got there) to find his father, Kevin. It seems many years ago, Kevin invented this video game world and got trapped there. Clu is the alter ego version of Kevin and he oversees the games. The games use motorcycles and frisbees that are used to defeat the opponents. The opponents shatter when hit because they aren't real. Some girl whom was supposed to be special some how rescues Sam and takes him to his real father. From there, Sam devises a plan to escape through a portal.FINAL VERDICT: It was too confusing for me. There are many better sci-fi movies then this: don't waste your time.
This movie had some laughs, but it was pretty silly and considering all the medians in it, it should have been funnier. The movie starts out showing 5 youths playing a basketball game against rivals. Jump ahead about 30 years, and we see the 5 of them today. They get word that their coach has passed away, so all return for the funeral. After that, they go to a rental lake house for the weekend. So, it the 5 guys and their wives and kids.Comedy tries to ensue. Such as meeting Rob Schneider's two hot daughters and then his 1 not so hot daughter. Plus he's got a grandma for a wife. Chirs Rock has his pregnant wife. Adam Sandler is a Hollywood agent with very spoiled children and a nanny. David Spade is the ever single ladies man. Kevin James tries to pretend to be a bigger success than he is and has a 4 year old still drinking mommy's milk. Through the weekend they have fun like going to a water park and meeting this really hot guy with a really annoying voice. Then the ending is another basketball game against their rivals from when they were kids.FINAL VERDICT: It has some laughs but should have been better. I'd say it's more for teenagers.
how much better can it get. But seriously, after seeing these "horrible bosses" you can see why their employees want to off them. But that's what makes it funny. Three guys, Nick, Dale and Kurt decide they have to kill their bosses because they are ruining their lives. Nick's boss is just a jerk, Dale's boss is a sexual fiend, and Kurt's boss is a coke head loser.The trio get aid from Jamie Foxx, whose movie name I can't say. They think he's some gangster, killer and get advice from him. But, his advice isn't what they had in mind.Then you have the ending in which the bosses "get taken care of". But of course none of it goes to plan. But the trio luck out and get the evidence they needed.FINAL VERDICT: A funny adult comedy. Check it out.
I think the whole family getting along for several days is less believable than anything else about this movie. Second is Dan, a widower for years, falls in love in just a couple of days and is willing to go behind his brother's back.Dan and his 3 daughters go to his family's get together for a long weekend. Dan goes out and runs into a woman, Marie, whom he talks to for a long time and seems to have a connection. Problem is he later finds out Marie is his brother's new girlfriend and now he must stay in the same house with her and forget his romantic feelings. He tries to act annoying and even goes out on a blind date, but Marie and his brother come along. One scene that made little sense is when Marie and Dan are in the bathroom and he hides in the shower when his daughter comes in. Marie instead of telling the girl to wait outside and she will talk to her later, lets the girl stays and she ends up getting into the shower with Dan. I guess that was supposed to be funny, but it was just dumb. Can Dan and Marie keep their feelings hidden or does it all come out in the open? Watch to find out.FINAL VERDICT: It was OK, but it just didn't seem like Dan and Marie had a real connection since only knowing each other 2 days. The romance was lacking.
I read the book a couple of years ago and from what I remember, this movie is completely different from the book. I thought the movie was rather boring and very dull, especially in the beginning. Who wants to see Will Smith driving around in a deserted city talking to a dog.Also, the special effects are horrible. The cgi lions and deer looked so fake. And all the darkseekers appeared to be cgi too. Computer generated enemies just don't seem that scary.The ending was so flat. I didn't care for it. How does the blast not kill the 2 survives who are hiding behind that door? Why doesn't Neville go along with them.FINAL VERDICT: Not scary, just dull. I didn't think the book was that good and the movie is worse.
This movie was sort of like a political thriller, but not very much was thrilling. It should have been no longer than 105 minutes, instead it was over 2 hours. Ewan McGregor plays the ghost writer to former British prime minister, Adam Lang, played by Pierce Bronson. Ewan is replacing the first writer that died by drowning or suicide; the circumstances are mysterious. That right there was clue number 1 for Ewan that his big pay day may not be worth the trouble.So, Ewan goes to America to the manuscript. A news story breaks about Lang and him illegally ordering the capture of terrorists that were tortured. Protests ensue and Ewan realizes a cover up is going on from items his predecessor left. Ewan gets a tip the answer is in the book. It has something to do with Lang being in America's back pocket.So, there isn't much action. Is running around on a ferry really that exciting.FINAL VERDICT: not worth the time
for this to work. In this movie, once a person turns 25, a clock starts on their arm, and that is how much time they have left. There is no money only time. You buy everything with time, from coffee to paying your rent.Will, from the ghetto, meets a suicidal guy that has a century. The guy gives Will his time before killing himself. Will is angry because his mom timed out and he wants to make things more fair. So he goes to new grenwich, which costs a lot of time to get there. By this time, the time police are after him because they think he killed the guy whom gave him his time. Will wins big at poker and is invited to a rich guy's house where he hooks up with his daughter, Sylvia. The cops burst in and he takes Sylvia on the lam with him.So the rest of the movie, the two become sort of like robin hood, stealing time and giving to the poor. I guess the big suspense is will they get caught or run out of time? FINAL VERDICT: OK, but there are always too many plot holes with sci-fi movies. Like where were all the cell phones, and why did the cop cars look like drag racers from the 70s. Anyways, I recommend it for a mindless popcorn flick.
This is one of the worst films I've ever seen. This remake turns the Dukes into cussing, stupid morons. And Bo is a ho chaser while Luke can't talk to a girl. Daisy goes from being smart to dumb and uncle Jesse makes a living from illegal activities.Jessica Simpson is the worst actor ever. She is from the south yet uses this dumb southern fake accent. She appears to be just reading lines and is there for the T&A.Boss Hogg no longer looks like a hog. Burt Reynolds is terribly miscast. Roscoe is not the goofy sheriff; he is a goon. Cooter uses very crass language. Enos is sort of like the original character.The car chases were stupid and why send the Dukes to Atlanta. The bimbos they pick up at the college were silly. The whole reason they even go to the college was pointless; it was simply filler material. I think more time was spent selecting the bimbos at the college than was spent writing the script.And finally, it was not funny, not in the least little bit.FINAL VERDICT: Trash Worst acting ever.
The Rock was pretty good and believable in this movie. He plays a football coach over a group of young delinquents whom have done everything from stealing cars to killing a man. These are troubled teens and most of them are involved in gang life. This is basically their last chance before doing hard time behind bars. Coach Porter starts a football team to teach the kids discipline and respect for each other. At first, they slack off, but soon they begin to care. The first game turns out disastrous for them. But, they learn to congeal together and soon field a good team. Along the way, they learn to let go of their hate and gang ties. Several kids get center attention as cases Coach Porter really works on.The movie is moving and makes you want to route for the kids. The Rock plays his role well and he does more than just read lines. Plus, the story was just good.FINAL VERDICT: A good movie to watch even if you don't particularly care for sport films.
I don't get all the bad reviews. I wasn't expecting much since this movie has a lot of negative reviews, but I found it to be entertaining and fun. Sure the story is unrealistic, but when you dealing in the realm of superheros, you can't expect the story to be plausible. It's not supposed to be. And the idea of a jealous girlfriend, who happens to have super powers getting revenge on the ex is a funny one. I thought it was funny when Jenny throws a shark in bed or when she strips Matt at the office. And the always funny Wanda Sykes is up to par in this one. And Rainn Wilson plays the perfect comedic best friend. Even the special effects were OK, they weren't completely fake looking.FINAL VERDICT: Entertaining. Don't let other reviews influence you into skipping this one. It's worth watching.
an interesting story line. I thought this movie was pretty good. I liked the way it started with each character getting a monologue. Anna tells us she was a designer baby, meaning she was genetically made to be able to be a donor for her sister whom has cancer. As a newborn, Anna donated blood and through the years bone morrow,etc... Anna goes to lawyer saying she doesn't want to donate any more, especially now that her sister needs a kidney. So, the lawyer takes up her case.There's a lot of flashbacks through out the film that show the sick daughter, Kate. She was in remission at one point, then relapsed, had a boyfriend, and was sick and weak a lot. At the end, Kate realizes that she is not going to recover and tries to help her mom accept it.FINAL VERDICT: I thought it was sad, but had some good dramatic moments.
This movie was interesting and different. It's about a boy, TJ, and his father that live with his grandmother and they are dealing with the death of his mom. Hid dad is taking it very hard by just laying around the house and taking pills. One day, TJ is being chased by a bully and meets Hesher, a long haired, tattooed, stoned looking guy. Hesher just follows him home and welcomes himself in the house and starts doing laundry. Now the part I didn't like is why wouldn't they call the police when a stranger enters the home and starts living there.Anyways, TJ meets Nicole, whom he develops a crush on and is basically his only friend. Hesher is reckless and starts doing crazy things to TJ's bully and gets TJ involved. AT that point, the kid should have told the truth.But a lot of crazy stuff goes on and it shows how the family is dealing with the mom's death and later another death. FINAL VERDICT: It was just weird, but different. I recommend it if you want a different type of story.
I was really looking forward to this movie because in Forgetting Sarah Marshall Russell Brand was hilarious as rock star, Aldous Snow. And Jonah Hill was very funny as the obsessed guy.But that character is a one trick pony and it just doesn't work as the main character in this film. There were some funny things, but it is just not enough for a whole movie. And Jonah Hill comes back playing a different character.The whole African Child video in the beginning was funny, perhaps the best part. But the movie tries to get most of its laughs by having the characters do crazy stuff while high instead of having funny situations like in FSM. Also, besides African Child the movie didn't use enough of Aldous's crazy song lyrics.P Diddy is in this and plays a record executive that only knows how to cuss all the time. It's cute the first couple of times but good comedic writing needs more than dirty words to be funny.FINAL VERDICT: It's got some laughs, but don't expect anything great. Worth watching on cable.
not really that exciting. This movie was OK, but just a little to long and bland to be good. Not to mention most probably already know the story. Nick moves next door to Gatsby and Daisy is his cousin. He soon learns Gatsby knew Daisy 5 years ago and is obsessed with her. He wants her to leave her husband for him. Eventually, Nick learns that Gatsby really is not all that fabulous and is trying to impress Daisy with all the showing off of money which he really doesn't have. Then jealousy comes into play and we see how selfish Daisy and her hubby really are.FINAL VERDICT: It's OK for a drama, a little to long, but worth a viewing.
I really didn't care for this film, mainly because a lot of it was just plain boring. It's about the start up of professional football. Dodge is the star player for Duleth. They are having money problems and he comes up with the idea to hire college star/ war hero Carter Rutherford. Carter brings in a lot of fans and spurs the growth of the football league. The romance part comes into play by way of reporter Lexi Littleton. She is sent by her boss to uncover the truth about Carter and his hero status. They have info that his war tale isn't the exact truth. From the start, she flirts a lot with Dodge. Of course, like most of this film, it really doesn't go any where.I thought Clooney and Zellweger were OK together, but most of this movie was boring, so I can't say they were great. It just dragged, especially during the football scenes.FINAL VERDICT: I don't think this film is really geared for a particular audience. I don't recommend it.
This was a very good horror movie. The beginning takes time to set up the relationships between the woman. We learn the group of friends like to get together every year to go on a thrilling adventure. This year they are exploring a cave. One of the women, Sarah, is still trying to get over the loss of her family. The movie does this without dragging out the story; hence this part is entertaining not boring.We finally get to the cave exploring. I think it is so creepy to think about crawling around in such a tight place and dragging yourself over rocks and water in the dark. There is no way I would do that. The group experiences a cave in and that's when they learn from Juno, the girl who planned the trip, that she did not lead them to the planned cave. They are exploring a new cave system and no one knows they are there.Instinct kicks in and it's about survival for each individual. Not only are they dealing with the dark and being lost, they got some cave dwellers hot on their trail who are looking for fresh meat. The cave people are somewhat realistic as to how the adapted to the dark and aren't blessed with super human strength.I also liked the creative ways they come up with to have light. Red flares and green glow sticks. When the cave people start attacking, that's when it gets gruesome. Some of the best gore and blood I've seen. Amazing how rock picks can make blood spew. But, I don't buy Juno and Sarah at the end being able to dominate the cave people like that. But it sure was cool.FINAL VERDICT: It's creepy and got lots of blood and guts. If you like those type of movies, you will like this.
This is the craziest zombie movie of them all. First just forget everything you think you know about zombies because this movie throws all that out the door. R is a zombie that can think and he eats the brains of Julie's boyfriend, hence getting all his memories, that's one of the new zombie twist. So when R has a chance to attack Julie, he recognizes her and begins talking and gets her to safety. How is this possible? Well it seems the zombies are coming back to life, of course this is never explained. They are the walking dead, but come back to life, really far fetched. Of course, Julie's dad doesn't understand the blossoming love between her and R, but it's easy for her friend to accept. And the bad guys in this are the bonies. Zombies that have ripped all their flesh off and look like skeletons.FINAL VERDICT: This movie makes up a lot of new rules about zombies. The plot is too much to take, skip it.
I thought this was an entertaining movie, even if the whole antimatter plot point was a little absurd. The Vatican brings back symbolist Robert Langdom at a time of crisis. The pope has just died and the 4 cardinals that were the leading candidates to take his place have been kidnapped. An ancient society called the Illuminati has threatened to kill 1 cardinal every hour starting at 8 and they have stolen the antimatter and hid it in Vatican City and it is due to explode before midnight. As in the Di Vinci Code, Langdom uses clues associated with the various churches in Rome to find out where each cardinal will be executed. Langdom and the police run all over Rome being just a little to late to save the first 3 cardinals lives.Then there is a twist with the bad guy being one of those closest to the pope. What I don't get is why did he hide the antimatter where he was because if Langdon hadn't figured out in time where it was, he would have been blown up too. And are we supposed to believe he had the whole save the day with the helicopter carefully planned out from the beginning.FINAL VERDICT: It's actually a movie that has a plot. It's good enough to keep your interest till the end.
if he would have gave the presidents advice. I thought it was OK, but it doesn't have the excitement to keep a lot of people's attention spans. Basically, Forrest Whitaker, whom once again does a great acting job, plays Cecil Gains, the white house butler. He doesn't advise the presidents, just sees them in their every day lives. He has wife that has a drinking problem and two sons. One joins the army and one is in the black panthers, getting arrested all the time. And his aim is to get equal pay for blacks in the white house.so that's the movie, Cecil works in the white house for almost 30 years and lives to see Obama become president.FINAL VERDICT: I'm sure a lot of people will not like this because it's too boring, so only watch it knowing it's purely drama and no suspense or action or much of anything.
First, I want to say I really liked the first Transformers. It was much better than I expected and had a decent plot and was funny. The last hour of this movie was awful and silly. There was so much going on screen, you had know idea what was even going on. It was just special effects with machines fighting and the humans were after thoughts, just shown running through smoke and explosions. Megan Fox has nothing to do and it's good she won't be wasting her time in the third film. The parts I can say were good were in the beginning with Sam's parents, both at the house and when they go to his college. The soldiers brought back were pointless and the FBI agent is back. He's a butcher with a web site about aliens. And somehow this old robot transports them to Egypt??? Made no sense.FINAL VERDICT: The last hour was just one long boring action scene involving the robots. And this movie at 2 and 1/2 hours is too long. It just isn't good enough to recommend.
dislikable in a movie. I go in expecting some cutesy, feel good movie since it stars Garner, but what we get is a depressing, pointless plot. Garner plays, Grey, a young woman who just lost her fiancé right before the wedding. She can no longer afford rent on her own, so moves in with her fiancé's friends for a while. Her fiancé's best friend, Fritz, comes from California for the funeral, but for some reason that is not explained, ends up staying at the same house which seems like for weeks. Grey first sees Fritz at the wake and catches him banging the help, so what does she do. As soon as he moves in, he makes a play for her and she can't wait to take it to the next level. I take it the fiancé has only been dead a week or two. She finds out that the fiancé kept secrets from her, such as supporting a child in California. The kid and mom show up to add drama, but nothing can really save this script.Grey is simply gross for sleeping with her finance's friend before he is even cold in the ground.FINAL VERDICT: Terrible, boring, main character is not likable.
the story falls flat. This is pixars worst film. While the animation is top notch. The story wasn't very entertaining and it is not as funny as the other films. Seven year old will like it, but it's not that good for adults. The plot is very simple. A hot shot racing car gets side tracked in a small town. He must pave the road in order to earn his freedom and be on his way. The lesson of the story is winning is not everything, being a good person is. A lesson that has been told many times.FINAl VERDICT: I didn't find it very entertaining. Certainly no where near as good as Finding Nemo. I don't recommend it for adults.
then this movie is for. But, the general masses will not get it. Johnny Depp does a good acting job, but that was about all I liked about this film. I am not familiar with the Earl of Rochester, so I was lost about the plot. If you don't know his story ahead of time, then it doesn't make a lot of sense. The Earl was a womanizer, a drunk, wrote risqué plays, and wasn't a very nice person. He takes a mistress who is an actress and coaches her to become a great actress. He really does fall for her, but she blows him off in the end. At the end of his life, he has a horrible disease, maybe syphilis, and his face is disfigured.FINAL VERDICT: I didn't like it. The movie does not do a good job of explaining who the Earl was, so if you are unfamiliar with his biography, you will be lost throughout the film.
then this movie is for you. It's one of those fun movies with unbelievable characters. Frank's back and this time accused along with Marvin of being a terrorist. This all dates back to a job they had in Russia years ago. It seems a nuclear weapon went AWALL and now the real terrorists want to find it. The CIA and contract killers are after them.Most of the film is just filled with silliness and jokes. And too many product placements. The pringles and papa john's were cringe worthy. I hate it when movies advertise because I'm watching a movie so I don't have to watch commercials. One of the craziest scenes was Han spinning the blue Ferrari and Victoria shooting the bad guys from both sides. Also Katja spins a black porche, skips to the passenger side, and Frank jumps in and rides away. Let's not forget the crashing the helicopter and everyone is OK. How crazy.FINAL VERDICT: makes for a fun popcorn flick
What was Adam Sandler thinking? To pick a remake of a film that shouldn't have been remade. And give it an R rating. Sandler needs to stick to what he does best, which is the off-beat guy who is sort of crazy and enjoys poking fun at himself. Here he plays this ex-football player that got kicked out of the NFL for shaving points. That right there makes him the popular guy, not the off-beat guy he always plays. He gets sent to prison for DUI, so you have all the male prison jokes thrown at you. None of its new and it's not funny. This prison is in Texas, where football is king. The warden has his guards on a football team. He suggest letting them play the cons as a warm up game, plus it will be on TV since the cons have the famous quarterback.Of course, the cons enjoy the opportunity to hit back at the guards. The movie turns dark for a while by having one of the main characters die in an explosion. It's like the movie can't make up its mind, is it a comedy or drama. Then the cons that this guy was close too are over it a few days because we got to get back to the laughs.The football game is boring, you know the cons will rally because they'll get together and be like, we have to win the game, we'll always have that. And there's the dramatic final play of the game. And the evil warden gets his humiliation.FINAL VERDICT: I don't recommend it. It's not funny and this is not the typical Sandler film.
it's still funny. I'm surprised that there are so many negative reviews here. I thought this was a fairly funny movie. Sure, there's some swearing, but it's certainly not over the top, and I didn't find it distracting as I find it in some films.Katherine Heigl plays, Abby, a TV control freak producer, whom has just had a new segment added to her morning show. Gerad Butler is Mike, host of the Ugly Truth, whom is the new hit on the TV show. Abby doesn't like his chauvinist ways, but soon begins taking his advice while pursuing Dr. Colin. Of course the ending isn't hard to figure out between Abby and Mike.There were some funny scenes in this. My 3 favorite were: When Abby falls out of the tree, hanging there with her dress up side down. Abby and Colin at the baseball game when she's on the big screen. I was dying laughing. And when at the dinner with her bosses, Abby's vibrating underwear gets turned on by a kid. Very funny.FINAL VERDICT: I think this is worth seeing.
a piece of cake according to this movie. The whole idea of a several kids starting their own college was just too over-the-top. It goes beyond unbelievability. A college reject chooses to lie to his parents and say he was accepted to a made up college. He gets his friend to make a website for the college. Well, hundreds of kids who were rejected from every college they applied to show up to attend this school since clinking an "accept" button on the website was all you had to do to enroll. So, they use an old mental hospital as the school. They set up beds, cafeteria, and basically an all out party mode. They got a pool, hot girls, an ADD nerd, etc... The school up the street wants to take over and the dean does what he can to find out about this "new" college. And all the good guys win in the end.It wasn't that funny. And there is no one famous in this.FINAL VERDICT: This is only for adolescent teens. Otherwise don't watch it.
Because this movie was so short, under 90 minutes, I think it would have been better as a made for TV movie. Plus, not a whole lot happens which is why the writer couldn't stretch it out. But, it was a decent psychological terror movie. The premise is 5 people are stuck on an elevator and they start dying. Not just dying, but being murdered when the lights go out. One of the security guards watching this on the camera is very religious and starts talking about the devil because someone committed suicide at the building and he saw a flash of a face on the monitor. Then a cop becomes involved as they try to get to the elevator doors. It is rather spooky when the lights go out because you hear noises, then something bad has happened when the lights come on. The cop finds out all 5 people have done bad things in their life. This leads the religious security guy to believe it's the devil even more.Then we find out whom the devil was, it's creepy. And the cop learns very important info from one of the elevator people at the end.FINAL VERDICT: Pretty good, just not worth paying to see it in a theater. I recommend it.
Almost all of this movie was great except the last 10 minutes when it gets really dumbed down. But, I can overlook that because I really liked the suspense of Casey in the trunk talking to 911 operator, Jordan. She has some good ideas like pouring out the paint, but it didn't work. Plus it's super scary because the kidnapper kills 2 people on the way. It starts going off track when Jordan decides to investigate the area of the last cell ping herself. How did she find the trap door when the police couldn't? Also, at the very end when Jordan and Casey walk out the door, that was so Hollywood.FINAL VERDICT: One of the better movies of the year, definitely check it out.
I compare the 2 characters because both are nerdy and had weird social lives. This movie is about a guy, Andy, who is 40 and still collects toys, sits at home,and doesn't date. He gets outed by his friends at work as a virgin. So of course they want to help him get some. They take him out and tell him how to talk to women, but something always happens to mess up the evening. Then he meets the one, and he finally asks her out. And it's easy to guess the ending.While the plot isn't much, the script was great. A lot of funny moments and comments are made by Andy. It's more funny because you could picture a nerd like that in real life being the same way.And the film's funny without a lot of gross humor.FINAL VERDICT: It deserved the hype. And it's worth watching twice.
This story was a real life family drama. It's about 2 middle aged kids whom are estranged from their father. He lives across the country and is slowly developing dementia. His girlfriend dies and they must come get him and take him home. They place him in a nursing home. It's stressful on everyone. His daughter, Wendy, is having an affair with a married man and is not that successful at writing plays. His son, Jon, is not married and seems not to care that his girlfriend must leave because her green card ran out. Both kids must rely on each other to deal with their father.The movie has a humorous tone to it. It's not a hard nosed drama. Also the acting was good. But Linney and Hoffman usually deliver good performances.FINAL VERDICT: The acting and story make it entertaining enough to watch.
The premise for this movie sounds like it could be hilarious. While funny at times, it isn't a great comedy. One downside is the writer apparently thinks just by saying the f word, that's funny. I would like to know how many times it's said in this movie. At times, it's like every character has to say it at least once in every sentence. It's overkill.Now for what's funny. Just the generalizations of the 80s is funny. From the music, to what people are wearing, and how suspicious they are of the guys since they have cell phones. The bullies think they are Russian spies. Also, there is the running gag as to how the bell hop loses his arm.FINAL VERDICT: Overall, a fun adult comedy. Worth checking out.
much better. I thought the previous Broken Lizard movie, Club Dread, was a decent comedy. It was much funnier than this movie. A movie centering around beer just didn't seem that entertaining to me. It does have some gross out humor that was good. A lot of it concerned the grandma and her handling a sausage or any advice she gave.MoNique also offers some laughs in this, mainly when she seduces a drunk Barry and he sees her as a very hot chick. The scene with the nerd and frog was just plain gross.FINAL VERDICT: OK, but not as funny as other films. It is raunchy but nothing like the American pie movies which are much better.
for an action film. I like Jason Statham, but this is not his best movie. I wouldn't even call it one of his better movies. There just wasn't enough action. Statham usually has cool car chase scenes and funny one liners. The best action in this movie was the very beginning when he meets the guy swimming. The light moment in this movie was the spiritual guru whom has a ketamine problem, sort of like Michael Jackson. And you just knew he was too cool to get taken out by his apprentice.FINAL VERDICT: Not a great script. Pick one of Statham's earlier movies.
I really liked all the costumes, scenery, and makeup; however, the movie as a whole wasn't that entertaining. Also, it is a little weird watching a movie about the French when they all talk like Americans. The movie is about Maie Antoinette as a teenager. We see her movie to France, marry soon to be king Louie, and what her life was like right after marriage. I don't know how factual this is, but the film depicts the 2 newlyweds as "cold" in the bedroom. Not really anything is happening there. And Marie needs to have an heir to solidify her standing in France. She is humiliated when Louie's younger brother has a child before they do. It shows her gambling, partying and during this time the masses of France are living in poverty and starving. The very ending shows the angry mobs outside the palace and the ending shows the royal family being taken away and it ends like that. I didn't like that ending either. It was too abrupt.I didn't think any of the actors had any memorable roles. It was simply a blah type of movie.FINAL VERDICT: I think it is aimed toward teens, but they would find it boring. I wouldn't watch it again.
better to put you to sleep my dear. That's basically how I felt while watching this movie. The acting is really bad and it was a bad teen film. It's about the cool, loner guy and the rich, hot guy whom are both wanting the love of the prettiest girl in the village. Only problem is there seems to be a werewolf on the lose instead of vampires. The movie also has an outsider and his people whom start persecuting people like the salem with trials. Where did that part come from, he seems to just want a witch to burn.It wasn't too hard to figure out whom the wolf was because you knew it had to be a featured character and it couldn't be the most obvious choice. The movie has finds a use for silver nail polish.FINAL VERDICT: Bad, avoid this.
I liked this movie and thought it was a decent story. I also liked the special effects and am not sure what some are complaining about with those. For the most part, the chimps looked realistic and had facial expressions.Franco plays Will, a scientist working on a cure for Alheimzer's, which his dad has. He has a drug he wants to try on humans, but a chimp goes crazy and his drug is discarded by the company. But, Will takes home a baby chimp whose mother had the drug in her system. The chimp, Ceaser, proves to be exceptionally smart, but attacks someone so is sent away. Meanwhile, Will uses the drug on his dad and sees great results in the beginning. Ceaser sees a way to get all the chimps to follow him and releases the drug. Soon , he has a gang of smart chimps and they escape and cause a mess. And we see how the chimps will rise because the new drug Will was working on, is deadly on humans.FINAL VERDICT: It was good and a fun popcorn flick.
I thought this movie was creepy and good. It's about a couple with 2 kids and weird things start happening around their home. Things in the kitchen are moved, pictures go missing, and sleep walking. The youngest kid, Sam, keeps talking about the Sandman and drawing pictures of beings that resemble aliens. The parents start blacking out and have nose bleeds and hearing high pitch sounds. The mom sees a figure in Sam's bedroom. And hundreds of birds hit their house. They go see a man whom tells them about the Greys, aliens that are here. He tells them the Greys have targeted their family and often an abduction happens. So this is the part that gets a little off, when the dad buys a bunch of guns, and boards up the windows. Alarms didn't stop the aliens, why should this.Then there is a surprise ending and flash back to put it all together.FINAL VERDICT: If the subject of aliens interests you, check this out.
horrible wig. That wig was all I saw while watching this movie. It looked just terrible. But besides the wig, I thought this movie was OK, not horrible like some reviews say. It wasn't really funny, but it wasn't completely boring. And seeing Sandra, aka Mary, spouting off senseless facts, was amusing at times.I thought Thomas Hayden Church had the best role. He was OK as the lead on scene reporter with the super cool hair. And Mary following Steve around was entertaining enough in her red boots. But having her just fall down that mine was silly, like how could anyone not know it was there.FINAL VERDICT: OK to watch on cable.
This movie is based on a true story about some very smart MIT students and there teacher, Micky. The newest to the group is Ben, whom is the best with numbers and quickly becomes the star. Micky is the one who designed the way they would count cards. He is also using his money when gambling,so he takes half. They go to Vegas and by using a system of card counting, hand signals, and key words, the group proceeds to win hundreds of thousands of dollars at blackjack.One night, Ben loses it and continues to play when given the signal to get out. He loses big time which enrages Micky. To get even, Micky calls the casino security and tips them off about Ben. Ben is taken and beaten but is let go. Also, Micky steels Ben's money, which he was saving for Harvard medical school. After a cooling off period, Ben gets back in the good graces of Micky and convinces the group to go back to Vegas for one last big take. Does Ben have something up his sleeve? Has he really forgiven Micky? Is there someone out there who would like to see Micky suffer? FINAL VERDICT: Not really that exciting, but a good story worth watching.
I don't see what the point of making this movie was. It was boring and about an uninteresting writer. The 2 lead actors are good, but they aren't given much to do. Christopher Plummer plays famed writer Tolstoy and Helen Mirren is his wife, Sofya. They have been married nearly 50 years and love each other but also fight a lot. Sofya gets carried away and has a lot of emotional fights with her husband. She is worried that Vladamir, Tolstoy's friend, will try to steel the rights to his books once he dies. She's always talking about Vladamir trying to get the will changed. As a side plot, Vladmair hires Valentin to be Tolstoy's assistant, and report back to him everything that happens at home. Valentin starts an affair, she leaves, not much else with that story line.The ending is basically the last days of Tolstoy and how his wife really loves him.FINAL VERDICT: don't waste your time
I like musicals but not this one. The songs just were not very good. Only one was even catchy and that was the one Kate Hudson performed. The songs didn't even fit the story line very well and the story line was terrible. It's about a film director, Guido, whom has had 2 flops and is starting his next film, Italiao. Only problem is he has no script and not really any idea what he wants. He has a wife that he claims to love but also has a mistress that shows up unannounced. Nicole Kidman plays his actress muse. Kate Hudson is reporter and I have no idea what her character was even for. And Fergie sings a song but I didn't get what she was even about. It was a very small role that made no sense. Then there is Judi Dench his assistant and Sophia Loren plays his dead mom.The whole plot was poorly done.FINAL VERDICT: Skip this.
is basically what this movie is about. And the film goes out of its way to make the two female character, played by Portman and Kudrow, seem very dislikable. Kudrow is the ex-wife and is just plain ugly at times with what she says and is a control freak. You don't feel sorry for her that her husband left her for a younger woman. Who would want to listen to her carry on at home. Portman, is the younger woman, Emilia, whom steels her boss, Jack, from Kudrow. She gets pregnant, so he decides to divorce and marry her. Their baby dies 3 days after being born. Then there is the stepson, William, whom seems to set Emilia off. She seems very annoyed by him and always does or say the wrong thing. Emilia also has problems with her father and brings that into her marriage. The way everyone is portrayed in the movie makes you wonder how they ever got married in the first place.FINAL VERDICT: No one is likable in this. Not worth a viewing.
I thought Twilight, the first film, was OK; however, I thought the plot to this movie was boring. The lead guy, Edward, is gone most of the film. And all we see is Bella being depressed and doing dangerous things in order to have visions of Edward. Then Jacob, the werewolf, doesn't do a whole lot. He spends half the film falling all over Bella and the other half telling her to leave him alone while being shirtless.As for the special effects werewolves, half the time they looked huge and in other scenes looked just a little bigger than a dog. Also, so much more should have been done with the werewolves.Then I thought the ending was horrible. Bella and Alice go from her bedroom to Italy in a few seconds to rescue Edward. It didn't make any sense. Maybe the book is clearer.FINAL VERDICT: I don't think these films are good and not worth the time to watch.
This movie was better than recent Martin Lawrence films. It actually had humor that was funny in places. Lawrence plays a TV talk show host whom is engaged to a Survivor winner, Biancca. Bianca has turned him into a vegan and believes winning is everything. RJ goes home to a family reunion bringing Bianca and his son. He has a large, tough talking cousin, another cousin, Reggie, whom is not trustworthy, but his main rival is cousin Clyde. Clyde always won in everything until the family obstacle course and RJ finally beat him, but Clyde reneged on their bet. RJ's dad favors Clyde. Also, there is Lucinda a girl that both RJ and Clyde liked growing up. The family reunion turns into another contest between RJ and Clyde and Bianca sees she doesn't have much in common with RJ's family.Some of the funny scenes include Bianca saying sweet tea is like liquid diabetes, Bianca's dog with RJ's dog, the skunk, anything cousin Betty did.FINAL VERDICT: Give it a try, Martin Lawrence is funny again.
If you want to be grossed out, see vial, disgusting stunts and people just plain acting stupid; then this movie is for you. The guys get knocked off skateboards, use an appendage as snake bait , and even put a fish hook through the cheek and jump in the water with a hammerhead shark. I didn't even want to watch the leach and eyeball bit, it looked very nasty. I don't see how they don't get seriously hurt if they are really doing all these crazy stunts. And I think they really are. Like the part where they are trying to pick up an anaconda in balls. And the snake bites Johnny Knoxville several times and draws blood each time, yet he still picks it up. Is that not dangerous? It sure looks like it.FINAL VERDCIT: So if you are into the MTV show, then you'll like this. Just don't eat before you see it.
This movie was OK. The music and dancing were pretty good. But the story was nothing new. I did like the 2 lead actors. They helped to make the film entertaining enough to watch. Both were hot. And I think Channing Tatum should be the next break out hot star. The final dance routine that combined ballot and hip hop was one of the better dances I've seen in a film. Tyler's friends were a little annoying since they kept trying to get him in trouble and acted like he was putting them off by trying to learn a dance routine. It took Mac's little brother dying for him to see living a life of a delinquent was no way to be. Very predictable. Also, the school's principle had to be about the most predictable character I've ever seen in a film.FINAL VERDICT: If you like hip hop and dancing, then you will find this entertaining enough to watch. Otherwise, skip it.
Chris Hemsworth is very hot. I never noticed him in a movie before, but there is one too short scene of him shirtless, that is not to be missed. Other than that, I thought this movie was OK with the beginning being the best part and I didn't care for the ending. The first 45 minutes was very entertaining with some good special effects. Basically the first part is about Thor's people and their conflict with the frost giants. The frost giants invade and Thor with his other brother, Loki, and friends go to the frost giant land looking to start a war. We see some of the cool powers Thor has with his hammer. But the King is furious and banishes Thor to earth minus his powers and that's when the movie starts to get duller. He meets scientist, Natalie Portman, whom of course he falls for. I thought there should have been funnier scenes between Thor and regular people. He gets in trouble with the Feds, but just gets released, then the ending is this giant robot that is some how controlled by Loki from the other planet. Then the final battle between Thor and Loki, I just thought the latter scenes were not as entertaining.FINAL VERDICT: If you like the comic book movies, then I'm sure you will want to see this.
then this movie is for you. It centers around the economic downturn that has happened the past couple of years. Affleck, plays Bobby, a 6 figure sales manager whom is suddenly let go by his company. He lives in an expensive house with 2 kids and has things like a gold membership and sports car. He soon finds out how hard it is to find a job that he is accustomed too. He wants something that is almost as high paying. Bobby and his family have to move in with his parents and he finally puts his pride aside and accepts help from his brother-in-law played by Kevin Costner. Costner uses that horrible Boston accent.The second character is Phil, a 30 year employee that is let go. However, he becomes depressed and can't handle it.Then there is Gene, whom was part founder of the company. He doesn't like the layoffs but he doesn't have a say as the stock price is what the board makes decisions on. He is OK because he owns a lot of stock that has value in the millions.So the movie follows these 3 guys after losing their jobs and with what happens in their lives. Not exciting, but the script was well written.FINAL VERDICT: For finance majors.
then more religious stuff should have been thrown in. To kill the bad guys, just guns are used. No holy water, or bibles, couldn't the writer be more inventive.The movie is about the end of the world caused by angels under the orders of God. Michael, one of the angels, thinks God is wrong and in order to save humanity, he goes to this small diner in the desert in order to protect an unborn child. He says the child is the key to save humanity; however, no further details are given. More should have been said about the baby and why he was so important. So, the people trapped in this diner must keep the angles out. The angels take over human bodies in order to attack, so they are easily killed. That part made little sense, if you have supernatural powers, why not use them. Gabriel, another angel. fights Michael and wins, but Michael comes back again. I didn't get that unless God decided Michael was right and that humans deserved another chance. I didn't like how a lot of things were not explained.FINAL VERDICT: It was OK, but had a lot of plot holes. It was a good idea, but more should have been done and it could have been a much better film.
that is the question I have. I didn't know anything about George Reeves before seeing this. So, from other reviews, I see Adrian Brody's character Louis was fictional. So no one besides the police really investigated Reeves death. So was the whole affair with the movie boss's wife real or fictionalized. Was that ever proved? Was any of this reported in the paper? So, while the acting was good and the story fairly interesting, but if you don't even know who George Reeves was, it just does not make a great movie. OK, but not entertaining enough.FINAL VERDICT: Maybe if you ever watched the old superman show, you would find this more interesting. Otherwise I definitely would not watch it.
There's not much to the plot of this movie and it never even answers the main question it's asking. Did Father Flynn do anything improper with one of his alter boys? Meryl Streep plays the school's principle and she's the one leading the witch hunt to get rid of Father Flynn. She's presented very, very vague evidence by one of her nuns: That the boy in question was called by Flynn to his office and came back to class acting strange by laying his head down and had alcohol on his breath; the other thing was the nun saw Flynn putting an undershirt in the boy's locker. Apparently that's all you need to know to accuse a priest of wrong doing.Sure, the acting performances were good. The problem was they had very little to do and it just wasn't interesting.FINAL VERDICT: I only recommend it if you want to be put to sleep.
This movie was good; the well written script had a lot to do with it. While many films have plot holes and silly stunts, this movie had a real story and was realistic. You could picture something like this happening in real life. A diplomat's wife, Tessa, is gathering evidence against a big pharmaceutical company, that is using an experimental drug on the poor of Africa. The Africans must give consent to take the drug in order to receive any kind of medical care. The company covers up the people who die from the drug. They are buried in unmarked graves. It seems the company doesn't want to go back to the drawing board with their drug by admitting it has serious side effects. It would the cost the company a couple of years and millions of dollars to redesign the drug. Instead, they adjust the drug undercover so, they can keep running trials on the poor.Tessa is murdered along with her friend who was helping. Her husband, Justin, starts investigating what his wife was working on, and soon finds his life is in danger.So, the movie is basically a well acted murder mystery with a believable plot and resolution.FINAL VERDICT: Well written. I'm sure the teen crowd would say its slow and boring since there are no explosions and girls in bikinis. But, I recommend this if you like intelligent films.
This is one of those sci-fi movies in which the plot just gets to complicated and there are too many loop holes. Bruce Willis is looking really old and Joeseph Gordon Levitt is becoming a lead actor. I think he is really entertaining in movies. JGL is Joe, a guy known as a looper. He kills guys that are sent back from the future by the mob. Closing a looper is when the older looper is sent back to be executed by his younger self. This happens to Joe, but the older joe gets away. So he needs to kill his older self before the mob kills him, why, I'm not exactly sure. The older Joe is looking to kill the evil Rainmaker as a child. So, he has 3 kids that may be the rainmaker. And the younger Joe picks the right house to begin with. So, you see how complicated this gets. So in the end the younger Joe must come up with a plan to stop the Rainmaker from doing his evil things in the future.FINAL VERDICT: I didn't care for it because the plot just got too out there.
To me, this movie just didn't have much happen in it; hence, it was boring. An hour long documentary on the plane crash and what happened at the university would have been more interesting. I don't buy Matthew McConaughey as a football coach. He looks too much like a surfer dude, and dying his hair dark isn't going to change that. Also, this movie at over 2 hours is way too long for so little action. The crash takes place in the first 10 minutes or so, so we barely learn anything about those who died. Therefore; it doesn't make that great of an emotional impact later in the film when the team is trying to come together for its fallen teammates.FINAL VERDICT: I like sports and sports movies. But this one just didn't do it for me. I don't recommend it.
Any movie with Reese Witherspoon, you think is going to be some cute film with some laughs. Well, this isn't funny unless you find a baby vomiting milk on someone hilarious. As a matter of fact, Kate and Brad are rather oblivious to their families. When they visit, the parents say they haven't seen them in years. And apparently they live in the same area since they drive to all 4 homes in a day. They don't seem like grateful kids. The only person I liked was Sissy Spacek as Brad's mom. Her hitting the buzzer because she didn't understand the game was amusing.Also the plot wasn't that good. Like Kate and Brad come to this understanding about their relationship in a day, then it flashes to a year later and they have a baby.FINAL VERDICT: Not worth your time.
This movie was better than I expected because I thought the story would be horrible. And it wasn't; actually, it's a story that has been used many times. It sort of reminded me of General Custard at Little Big Horn. The bad humans are tired of trying to make nice with the blue aliens and so decide to destroy them. Aliens with their less advanced weapons unite and defeat the bad humans from completely overtaking their world.Sigourney Weaver, plays Grace, a scientist that wants to learn from the Navi and believes that they are one with the forest. Enter, Jake, a marine whom is replacing his deceased brother, as a driver of an Avatar, which is the human/alien/ body that can be controlled by the human's mind. Jake gets lost and is taken in by the Navi, in particular a girl, Neytiri. They teach him the way of life. He is supposed to gain their trust and ask them to leave their land so the humans can harvest this valuable rock that is there.OF course, Jake falls for the girl and wants to help them defend their land against the evil chief of security whom takes over and wants to destroy everything.FINAL VERDICT: It's your typical story that everyone likes, plus cool special effects. It is a little long, but that's why I say watch it at home so you can stop it several times.
If you want guns, shootings, explosions, wacky bad guys, then this movie is for you. All the action was like a video game; it was mind numbing. And all of it was so generic, nothing really cool. No neat car chases or thinking required. The bad guy, Max, was the most interesting. We know he's pure evil because he kills kids, shoots random people, and wants to buy these bombs that wipe out land without a bunch of negative side effects. His goal is to sell them to the highest bidder and start a war. He had a lacky, Wade, that was funny.FINAL VERDICT: Too much going on and there aren't any actors you have heard of. Avoid it.
I'm so glad the last Potter film is finally over with and there will be no more of these big budget, boring movies. There was nothing in this sequel that I liked; no memorable moments or funny scenes. It was all bland, and that is such a shame since the books were so good. The Potter movies just got worse as it went along. And in this movie there wasn't even good special effects. Like in the beginning, Harry, Hermione, and Ron use magic to disguise themselves to break into a vault at the goblin bank. That's already been done in the series. It just wasn't interesting.Plus, I've never any of the actors in these movies have been very good.FINAL VERDICT: I'm so glad it's over and no more Potter films.
This is not a comedy; it's more of a relationship drama. Everett is bringing home his work-focused, nerdy girlfriend to meet the family. From the beginning, his family already has a dislike toward her and isn't very welcoming. Meredith doesn't do herself any favors by telling boring stories and being all prim and proper. She doesn't know how to let loose and have a good time. Everrett really doesn't do much to stick up for her either. He doesn't even insist she stay when she decides to move to the Inn. At the dinner table, she does a good job of sticking her foot in her mouth when discussing gay issues with the gay son and family.But what is really out there story wise, is as soon as Everett sees Meredith's sister, Julie, he goes all ga ga over her and is in love. Just hours before, he was looking at engagement rings, now he is falling all over Julie. And Meredith gets drunk on the town with Ben, Everett's brother, and falls for him. The film gives no reason as to why Ben would see Meredith as his type and not to mention she is dating his brother. It's all weird because why does the family except Meredith when she is with the other son. Plus, you do not go after your sister's boyfriend 2 minutes after they break up. It's just so unrealistic.FINAL VERDICT: It was fair for a drama, but the Stones are a mean family and not likable. Plus it used misleading advertisements because it is not a comedy.
There have been several movies in the past few years that was just like this movie, about possession, devil worshipers, demons, etc.... And The Conjuring really offers nothing new.A family movies into a cheap, creepy house, with a spooky basement. Weird things happen, doors open, sleep walking, mysterious clapping, etc... The wife goes to a ghost hunting couple and they investigate and learn the history behind the house. A woman that killed her kids lived there and other deaths have occurred on the land. The demon wants the wife's body to carry on her evil ways and ghost hunters must perform an exorcism. See, sounds like something you've seen many times before.FINAL VERDICT: If you like horror films, worth checking out but I wouldn't go out of my way to see it.
Crank is about hit-man Chev whom wakes up and plays a DVD and learns that he has been injected with a Chinese poison. He calls his doctor played by Dwight Yokum who suggests he keeps adrenaline running through his body or the poison will kill him. Chev does all kinds of crazy stuff. He drives a car through a mall. Robs a pharmacy. Steals epinephrine injections at a hospital. Hooks up with his girlfriend in a public place (quite energetic). And has a showdown with the men whom poisoned him with back up. Amy Smartt plays the bimbo girlfriend with not a lot to do.This action movie is definitely played for laughs. It has more comedy than some supposed comedies out there. It sort of reminded me of Bruce Willis in the Die Hard movies.FINAL VERDICT: Fun, entertaining. Certainly not the best story out there but it is worth 90 minutes of mindless fun.
I didn't think there was much to this movie. It was sort of depressing because the people in it were whiny, argumentative, or miserable about all the time. The film is mainly about two couples. One, an older couple, Alfie and Helena, and their daughter, Sally and her husband, Roy. Alfie divorces Helena because he's become bored and wants to live a little through a younger woman. Only problem is the girl he picks up is a hooker/ actress. Helena visits a wann-a-be psychic that tells her what she wants to hear to help cope with the divorce. Sally gets a new job with a boss she has the hots for and her lazy husband sits around and tries to write but isn't good at it. His one good book was actually written by someone else. Roy also falls for the neighbor whose engaged.With this movie, it's just one thing after another with the characters being selfish and whiny toward each other.FINAL VERDICT: There's no one to root for in this. It's not even funny. Skip it.
This movie was half descent, but really just dragged on a bit too much and didn't have enough excitement. This is in the realm of sci-fi since it concerns time travel. Of course, when you are dealing with a movie about time travel, there are always gaping plot holes. House wife, Linda for some unknown reason never explained starts time traveling throughout a week of her life. It happens to be the week her husband dies in a car crash. One day it is Thursday, the day after he died, and when she wakes up in the morning, it's the first part of the week when he's still alive. So, she thinks she's losing it, but puts it together after jumping back and forth in time a few times. Can Linda change what happens in time? Sandra Bullock doesn't have a whole lot to work with here. She's not required to do a whole lot so there is little energy. This story just needed some more excitement and to have the characters do more.FINAL VERDICT: Very slow moving, but at least the plot is written well enough you can follow it.
If you have watched horror movies, you have seen this same type of movie many times. A group of young people go to a creepy place and find something that picks them off. In this story, they go to an abandon town outside of Chernobyl. Their tour guide, Uri, says everything will be fine, they just need to be on their way before dark. The one shocker in this is the bear they see. So of course, they got van problems and it is soon dark. So they do the first stupid thing that people do in horror movies, and that is go exploring after dark. Something attacks Uri and Chris, but everyone minus Uri makes it through the night. So they have their chance to get out of there, but do they? So the second night is when they get chased by poorly created mutants and you know the rest.FINAL VERDICT: Watch a different movie with much better mutants.
Lisa meets a seemingly nice guy, Jackson Ripper, at the airport while waiting for her red eye flight. He just happens to be on her flight and has the seat next to hers. After they are in flight, Jack turns sinister. He's blackmailing Lisa to move a government official at her hotel to a different room. Lisa does all she can to keep from making the call. But finally agrees to when she has to save her dad.But the over-the-top part comes when they land. Lisa turns from hotel manager to kick ass chick. First she stabs Jack in the windpipe with a pen. That's gotta take guts. Yet she still is let off the plane even with other passengers yelling she did it. Then she runs over the would be assignee and crashes the stolen car into her dad's house. Then she has a final confrontation with Jack. Now she's a black belt and uses a high heel shoe as a weapon and climbs on to the roof , gets down, to go back in. Amazing. Plus the whole time she's waiting for the police to get there even though her dad called the police when she crashed the car. I guess in Miami it takes police 30 minutes to answer a 911 call.As far as the story, pretty good, but the ending goes nuts. I thought Rachel Mcadmas was good.FINAL VERDICT: I'd recommend it if you want to watch a thriller and don't care about plot holes.
This movie was just so-so. The most memorable part of the film is Nick Cage's horrible fake looking hair. Is he using spray on paint to cover up those bald spots? But forget the bad hair, and focus on the story. The plot was OK, but nothing great.Cage plays Chris Johnson a clairvoyant who can see 2 minutes in the future. He has a magic act in vegas and uses his power to make some money in the casinos, but he doesn't want to win enough to be noticed. But too late. Some FBI agents, led by Julianne Moore, are on to his future seeing and want his help to track a nuclear bomb. Chris on the other hand is interested in meeting his dream girl Liz, played by Jessica Biel. Liz and him go on a car trip while the agents are after him. And somehow the terrorists know about him too. I didn't get that part. Liz gets kidnapped and Chris agrees to cooperate with the agents.At least this movie wasn't filled with a ton of plot holes. It did make sense. But Biel and Cage are bad together. He's nearly old enough to be her dad. They didn't make a cute couple.FINAL VERDICT: OK story, but Biel and Cage do not make a great couple. Not worth paying to see.
I didn't care for this movie. First, Blake Lively was horrible in this. She does nothing, adds nothing to the story, and was by far the worst written leading lady character in any action film. And the only thing Ryan Reynolds had going for him was the scene in his tidy whiteys.One problem I had was how did Hal fly threw space with no oxygen and live. That whole part was beyond silly to me. I mean he's still human but has special powers supplied by a ring. And the bad guy sucked. There was nothing memorable about him.FINAL VERDICT: A far far cry from movies like Spiderman, Batman, or even the Hulk. I can't recommend it.
I am a Saw fan. I really liked the first one with the twist ending and the second one was pretty good. But Saw 3 takes a dip in quality of story and entertainment. Amaanda is now shown to be in cahoots with Jigsaw and probably the worst of the two. I just didn't like her character. She didn't really want to play the game like Jigsaw and give anyone a chance to win. She was a winy psycho.This time the story revolves around a Dr., Lynn, who is forced to keep Jigsaw alive long enough to finish a game. She has a bomb around her neck that will explode if Jigsaw dies. We get a very gruesome brain surgery during this time.The other part of the game involves Jeff, a man who lives for vengeance since his son was killed by a car. Jigsaw has captured the men Jeff blame for his son's death and gives Jeff a choice. Jeff can show forgiveness and save them or let them die in gruesome ways. In the end Jeff tries to save all of them, but is never successful. The guy in the rack was the most gruesome of the death traps. Bones being snapped like that is never good.Then the twist is the link between Jeff and Lynn.FINAL VERDICT: OK, but not as good as the first 2. It's worth watching if you like gore and blood.
I didn't think this movie was that good. I really didn't think the second sequel was that good either. The problem with Shrek is it's a one trick pony. The first movie was great because it was fresh and original. Now, all the sequels do is repeat the same formula and it's just not that funny any more. What little plot there is concerns Shrek going to find Arthur who can take the place of the dead King because Shrek doesn't want to. Prince Charming wants to take over Far Far Away so gets the villains from various fairy tales to help him. The drama is can Charming be stopped and will Arthur want to take over.Also, even Donkey doesn't have any great lines any more. This should be the last one, but I see a fourth sequel is in the works. I am glad I didn't pay to see this but as long as people keep taking their kids to the theater to see these sequels, I guess they'll keep making them.FINAL VERDICT: It has a short running time, but still not worth spending a little over an hour to watch.
This movie was not that good. First it just drags by. Scenes seem to last forever with little dialog and there is virtually no action. The ending makes little sense; this writer can't even come close to the Sixth Sense.This has to be one of Anne Hathaway's worst films. She could get better scripts than this. She plays a therapist whom is hired to counsel a group of plane crash survivors. The survivors begin to disappear and she fears there may be a conspiracy by the airline to cover up mechanical failure. She becomes involved with one of the survivors. Then the twist is just thrown in.FINAL VERDICT: Not worth your time.
This sequel has basically moved away from the core of the first film which was about fast cars and slick driving into a pure seemingly impossible heist film. And I do have to say the way they pull of the whole vault theft was pretty good.The plot is Dom, Brain, and Mia are living in Rio de Janerio and on the run. It starts out with a pretty good action of them along with some other bad guys stealing cars out of a moving train. I don't think I believe that's possible, but it was still cool to watch. Any ways these guys there are working with work for the drug lord criminal of all of Rio, Reyes. They take this car that Reyes wanted and it turns out a chip was hidden in it that tells the locations of where Reyes hides his money.Mean while, the Rock plays a US agent hunting them down in Brazil. Dom decides to pull of the heists of all heist and sends for help, where we get some other characters from previous films. So, then we get to see if the plan works.BTW, the whole part of 2 cars pulling a very heavy fault down the street and racing was very silly. No way that is possible, but it was still entertaining.FINAL VERDICT: I like impossible heist movies, so I give it a positive recommendation.
I didn't think the first film was anything great, so I was surprised that I thought this sequel was OK. A lot of sequels are a lot worse than the original, but I thought this one was about the same.The same cast of friends go to Thailand for Stu's wedding. There they are drugged and get smashed and wake up in Bangkok with a monkey and Mr. Chow from the first film. This time the bride's little brother, Teddy, is tagging along. But the guy's have lost Teddy, so the movie is about them trying to retrace their steps and find Teddy.Stu finds out he did a guy, which is very disgusting. They discover the monkey is a drug dealer. Stu got a crazy face tattoo after starting a huge brawl. They kidnapped a monk. It's just all these crazy things and some male nudity thrown in.FINAL VERDICT: More of the same from the first film. It's OK if you want a movie with gross humor.
that was the best thing this movie had going for it. The freak show happens in the beginning and was interesting with the wolfman, snake man, regenerating woman, bearded woman, and of course the vampire with his spider. Two teens, Darren and Steve, attend the show. Darren loves spiders and steels the vamp's spider. The spider bites Steve and Darren makes a deal with the vamp to become his assistant and half vampire if he will give Steve the antidote. That's when the movie goes downhill. A Mr. Tiny comes into play, which makes little sense and he sends his henchman out to kidnap Darren. Why, I still don't know. Also Tiny wants to start a war between vampires some how using Steve and Darren. I learned this was based on a book, so I can only assume a lot was left out of the movie. Because the war thing made no sense. Also, I didn't like how the movie ended. There was no conclusion and it seemed set up for a sequel.FINAL VERDICT: If you don't know anything about the books, I say skip this.
Adam Sandler plays a famous movie star( George) and stand up comic (did this role require any acting skills). He gets news that he has AML and might die if experimental drugs don't work. So, he starts performing stand up again. He meets an up and coming comic, Ira. He hires Ira to write jokes and be his assistant. At first, Ira is the only one he tells about his illness, but Ira convinces him to share with others. So, George talks to his folks and sister for the first time in a while and he gets in contact with his ex, Laura. She is married with kids but says her husband cheats. George's doctor tells him it looks like the cancer is gone, so George goes to visit Laura with Ira and ends up hooking up and getting up to get rid of the hubby. But she has a change of heart, and George doesn't want to break up a family. So does George and Ira end up still being friends at the end? What do you think???FINAL VERDICT: OK, but it had too much fowl language for me and I didn't think any of the stand up routines was really funny.
This movie about vampires is a little different because the vampires are the dominant race, having overtaken humans. Humans are harvested for their blood and now there is a blood shortage. Ethan Hawke plays a vampire that is sympathetic toward humans and wants to find a substitute, but that fails in an gruesome explosion. Mean while the population is turning into sudsiders, meaning vamps that don't get enough blood and mutate into monsters.Hawke finds a few humans to help that lead him to a man that was cured from the vampire disease. So, it's up to him to find a cure before they are caught.FINAL VERDICT: Decent story, it was OK, nothing great.
I didn't care for this movie; it was a hodge podge of a mess. The plot makes little sense. It's basically to get Holmes and Watson and a gypsy on an adventure to foreign lands. All I know is it had something to do with this guy Moriarty and him having all these big weapons. And Watson ditches his wife right after being married to go along with the manic Holmes, so silly. And what was it with Holmes seeing a fight scene before it happened. I guess it was supposed to be his incredible mind at work but it made him seem like a psychic. And they used slow-mo in all this.FINAL VERDICT: waste of money and time
This movie was OK, but I'm not a big fan of sci-fi movies because they have too many plot holes. Basically, a military guy, Colter, keeps reliving the same 8 minutes over and over trying to find a bomber on a train. So after you see the third reenactment, it starts to get old. I will say most of the movie did make sense and it wasn't filled with plot holes. But the ending, I didn't get, that's where the plot holes come in. Was it an alternate world Colton was living in? If so, how did the lady get the text whom was in "normal" world? I did like the explanation the movie gave of how this was all possible and the state of Colter's body. It seemed plausible in the future.FINAL VERDICT: OK, I recommend it if you like sci-fi movies.
This was an OK idea for a movie, but the slow pace and little action left a lot to be desired. And I would have liked to have more background to the story such as what happened??? Also, I didn't buy the whole act with Charleze Theron. I think any mom that just wants to kill her kid and herself just because they got it bad is sad. And then she takes off in the middle of the night. I would think a mother's love would be stronger than that for someone to just abandoned their child. I didn't think that was believable.Then the film crawls as we see the kid and his dad wondering about, searching for food and trying to avoid cannibals. When they find the underground room with food, you would think this was some major plot twist or really exciting considering how much time they were shown just eating food.And the ending was sad and the whole film was depressing.FINAL VERDICT: I would skip this.
This was a fun, interesting film based on an actually bank robbery in London. It's not really about the money and jewels. Some high officials want some compromising photos back of Princess Margarat. They are in Michael X's possession and he is using them to black mail the government so he can import drugs into London. There are also some photos of other lords and such that some want back. Also, the robbers find a book that names all the cops on the take. All these things come into play as the robbers try to escape with their lives.Jason Stratham is likable as usual; only negative is he actually keeps his shirt on in this movie.FINAL VERDICT: It's worth checking out.
Keifer Sutherland, Ben, plays an ex cop whom has problems with his wife because of his drinking and depression from a killing while on the job. He's living with his sister and gets a job at an old department store that burnt working overnight security. It doesn't take long for weird things to start to happen at the burned store which also just happens to be an old mental hospital also. He sees burn victims in the mirrors and even feels like he's on fire. The mirrors want him to find someone. The evil force is also able to follow him any where and soon his sister is a victim and then it comes after his family. Can Ben solve the puzzle before it's too late? The opening scene is the best part, which isn't exactly a good thing. A guy sees his reflection slice his throat and the same thing happens to him. The movie shows it graphically. Good special effects. The other gruesome death is Ben's sister in the tub. The reflection just pulls the top and bottom jaw apart. That was gross. The ending was weird because it didn't exactly solve everything. The writers should have come up with something better.As for acting, Sutherland just plays a toned down version of Jack Bauer. He's still willing to pull a gun on someone to get them to do something.FINAL VERDICT: This movie was different and had a couple of cool death scenes. But some how, it just didn't flow right. I think the evil force should have done a few more scary things and maybe change the ending. I only recommend it if you can see it for free.
What a disappointment this movie turned out to be. First it is over 2 hours and 30 minutes long. Batman doesn't even show up in the first 45 minutes. It was too drawn out and so much stuff in it had me asking why. Also the bad guy is someone named Bane. If you don't know anything about the comics like me, Bane made no sense. Little was explained about him, did he have super human powers? It seemed like he had extra strength but the guy that played him wasn't in hulk type shape. The body type didn't go with the character. Then catwoman gets thrown in. Why, she steels some stuff and some how has contact with Bane. And Bruce Wayne is so torn up, he can't do anything in the beginning. Batman hardly does anything. And at one point Bane captures Batman, how does he get him to some desert country to put him in a pit prison, then how does Wayne get back to Gotham. It made no sense.FINAL VERDICT: There's not anything about this movie that would warrant a recommendation. I'm glad I didn't pay to see it.
The best thing this movie has going for it is the animation. I thought it was really good, not as good as Pixir, but good. The story is a little dated, protective dad wants to keep daughter away from the world and from meeting a guy. Most of the time a princess is involved, but this movie using vampires. Yes, more vampires. So Dracula wants to keep his daughter Mavis from leaving his castle and meeting humans. In order to do this, he builds and fake town and using zombies to act as humans to scare her back. Also, he is throwing a birthday party for her and all his monster friends are at the castle. Then an uninvited guest shows up, Jonathan, a human. So Drac has to do all these funny things to keep the other monsters from noticing that Jonathan is human. All the while, Mavis is enjoying Jonathan's company and hearing about his travels. So of course, eventually the gig is up, but all the monsters come together to do what is right.FINAL VERDICT:I liked the animation and the film had its funny parts. I thought it was entertaining and I bet 10 year olds would really love it. Worth a viewing.
This movie consisted mainly of silly humor. It was sort of amusing and sort of dumb. Two football jocks get this brilliant idea of attending cheerleader camp in order to hook up with as many girls as possible. One of the guys, Shawn, falls for one of the girls from his cheerleading squad. While Nick really likes the hot wife of the cheerleader camp's leader. The 2 have their fun but soon get into the cheerleading competition and aren't just there for the all the girls.There are some funny male characters at the camp. As well as Carly's boy, Dr. Rick.FINAL VERDICT: It was OK, teens would probably like this more.
Sure Daniel Day Lewis was good in this, but his role in Gangs of New York was a lot better and he didn't win the Oscar for that. His character, Daniel Plainview, doesn't really do anything to stand out to me. And I thought his character was going to be a lot meaner than what he was.Daniel Plainview is an oilman. He buys up land in Texas to drill and teaches his young son how to run the family business. He becomes successful but often cheats families when buying land. He doesn't give them the real value of the land. His son is injured in an accident and loses his hearing. Before too long, Daniel ships him off to school in California. He also must deal with a preacher, Sunday, that he considers a fake. He has to say he is a sinner in church in order to buy this one man's land. You could tell he really resented the preacher for this humiliation. He gets him back in the very end.While his son is away, a man turns up claiming to be his brother. With his son gone, Daniel starts to let this guy get involved with the business. But the guy slips up and Daniel knows he's an impostor and shows him what happens when you cross Daniel Plainview.Toward the end of the movie, it skips forward in time by many years. Daniel is now an old, lonely drunk. He lives in a huge mansion and his son comes by. The son says he wants to move to Mexico to get a drilling business going there. Daniel calls him a competitor and disowns him. He is very mean to his son and reveals a shocking secret about his childhood.Overall, this is a dark film about a man making a living drilling for oil in the early 1900s.FINAL VERDICT: Worth watching. I just don't think it's Daniel Day Lewis's best nor one of the top films of the year.
I thought this movie was OK. The special effects were great. All the zoo animals and then the tiger in the boat, and all the meercats, all of it looked so real. And it is hard to tell a story about a guy stranded on a boat, but the story had enough to be entertaining. I was hoping the tiger would be more grateful at the end. I liked all the shots of underwater from under the boat, with the fish and all. And the ship sinking had good effects too.What I didn't like is at the end when Pi has to tell his story to the insurance people and he has to tell a different version minus the animals. It's basically saying everything you watched was a lie. I felt cheated.FINAL VERDICT: Worth seeing for the visuals.
This movie was OK, but nothing great. Kristen Stewart just isn't great and has that same off look (like she smells something bad) on her face throughout the film. She plays Snow White whom has been locked up by the evil queen. The queen needs her heart to stay young, but Snow White escapes. She is aided by the Huntsman(Chris Hemsworth who was not quite as hot since he dyed the blond locks). The run through the dark forest and encounter a troll, the only thing they run into there. So the middle is them trying to get to the Duke's kingdom. They get help from the dwarfs and find William, the princess's childhood friend. Then there's the fight at the end and Snow White dishes it out to the queen.FINAL VERDICT: OK, but the story could have been better.
This movie was nothing more than another version of the Die Hard franchise. The film started out OK, but then just got sillier as it went along. It's about a blue collar cop, Danny Fisher, whom captures criminal mastermind, Miles Jackson. In doing so, Miles' girlfriend is killed by a truck. A year later, Miles' escapes prison and is after revenge. He kidnaps Danny's girlfriend, Molly, and plays a games with him. He calls Danny and tells him it's time for round 1, then 2, then so on up to 12, like a boxing match. When it gets to the point, Danny is climbing out of a fast moving car and onto a runaway trolley, then gets on top of the trolley, etc., that is when this film really lost me. Because that is so not plausible. Then the end with the helicopter and Danny jumping from a building and landing on the copter and pulling himself in then jumping at the end with Molly. It was just silly.FINAL VERDICT: Over done, nothing new. But I guess if you really like silly nonsense action films, you will want to see this one.
This movie was not quite as bad as I thought it would be. The plot is nothing new. It's another road trip movie, this time involving 4 middle age men wanting to get away from their jobs and wives. The 4 are wanna-be bikers; thus they take off on their trip on Harleys and in leather. About the funniest part is when they meet up with a cop who thinks a meeting on the down-lo is going on and wants to join in the fun at a water hole. The group runs into trouble from a real biker gang who ends up chasing them because their bar gets blown up. The 4 end up in a small town for the night after running out of gas and here they take a stand against the bikers. It is all predictable from here.FINAL VERDICT: OK, I can't believe how well it did at the box office. It must have been released at a time nothing else was on. I wouldn't say rush out and see this, but if you are a fan of one of the lead actors, you may want to check it out.
I didn't like this movie. I have never read the books, but my guess is a lot of background and side plots that are in the books were left out of this film. And this film ends set up for a sequel, which may not come. Just not a good ending. Daniel Craig is billed as a star, but he was hardly in the movie. Nicole Kidman had a little more screen time and I liked her character, Mrs. Coulter, the best. She made a good scheming, cold hearted wench. If you know nothing about the movie before hand, it makes little sense in the beginning. Apparently the story takes place in an alternate universe. People have deamons, which are animals that their soul lies in. When they die, the deamon dies. The ice bears were good special effects. Although their purpose didn't add anything to the story to me. The main character is the little girl, Lyra, whom is the only one who can read the Golden Compass. It would have been nice if we would have learned more about the compass and what the pictures meant. Very little is even revealed in this film.FINAL VERDICT: Story not congruent, boring. I don't recommend it.
This movie is one of the worst ones of the year. The main characters have no chemistry and the acting is horrible. Paul Rudd is the only one that has any talent, and the only one that is not annoying. I have never watched Desparte Housewives, so I don't know how Eva Longoria is on that show, but in this movie she was horrible. It's like she knows nothing about acting. All her character does is whine throughout the film, and she can't pull off being a b**** and still be entertaining. And the other girl, Lake Bell, displays little emotion and it's like you are looking at the cue cards as she reads them.As for the story, it is so cookie cutter. It goes from point A to B with little surprise. So much more could have been used with Kate as a ghost. The plot should have revolved more around her and the things she does as a spirit.FINAL VERDICT: It's not worth watching.
I thought this movie was disappointing. I was expecting Marley, the dog, to be the star, but the film was really more about John, played by Owen Wilson. Owen wasn't a good pick in my opinion. I have a hard time believing him to be a family man. Also Jennifer Aniston isn't who you think of as a mom of 3 kids. I think she was miscast also.The movie shows the two getting married and moving to Florida where they buy Marley. Marley tears up the house, chews on things, and is sort of like their baby. Eventually, they start having kids and this is when Marley gets shoved to the background. The rest of the film is just them having marital fights, making up, raising kids, and moving north. The movie ends with Marley's death, and the family reflects on the good times. It seemed to me that was stuck in there to try to convince people this movie was better than it was. Dogs should never die in movies, people don't want to see that.FINAL VERDICT: Not that good. I don't recommend it.
This movie was not very good. From the acting to the special effects, it just did not fit. Since when does a prince, Dastan, hop around like spiderman. And the way the film depicts the time travel was funny. The guy is surrounded by fire and his spirit sort of looks on, just weird. And Jake Gyllenhall is miscast because he does not look middle eastern. Even the great Ben Kingsley could not pull off his poorly written character. Also, this is one of those films where the characters will be doing something and the next scene they are somewhere else and the movie doesn't explain it well.FINAL VERDICT: you can skip this
I used to watch the Simpsons all the time, but grew out of it when I got out of high school. So, I haven't seen the TV show in many years. But still this movie seemed just an extended TV episode. You are a sucker just like Homer said if you paid to watch this. I watched it on cable. The plot deals with the pollution of Springfield. It gets so bad the government encloses Springfield in a dome and a lot of it has to do with something Homer did. So Homer and the fam find a way to escape the dome and move to Alaska. But of course, Marge and the kids can't leave everyone behind, especially when plans are to wipe out Springfield. They go back to help and eventually Homer gives in and goes to.To me it seemed like the cartoon uses most of the same jokes and plot points it did 10 years ago. I think one gets tired of it after about 5 years.FINAL VERDICT: Only worth seeing if you are a fan of the current TV show.
is the basic idea of this movie. I thought it was OK, but parts were too unbelievable to be taken seriously. At the beginning, we see Hanna and her dad living in a cabin in a remote forest. She is a petite teenager and dragging around a couple hundred pound deer. That's impossible. Later the story tells us she's some kind of genetic experiment and designed to be a super soldier and that's supposed to explain how she's as strong as a top notch weight lifter. I didn't buy it.Also how did she go from Morrocco to Europe. She was traveling with a family, but they never got on a plane. The story just had too many loop holes.FINAL VERDICT: There are better assassin movies out there, I don't think it's good enough to recommend.
getting away with illegal activities till one day he isn't so lucky any more. This type of movie has been done before, where you have a guy, a novice, beginning something new, getting good at it and taking short cuts and bending the laws, until one day, the authorities have enough evidence to put him behind bars.Jordan is a newbie at brokering and loves making the big bucks. The stock market crashes and he is out of a job. He finds a job selling penny stocks and is soon rolling in the cash by getting people to invest in stocks that aren't going to make them money, but will make him money. He's into drugs and hookers and soon ditches his wife for a hot new one. Jordan starts his own investment company and trains his friends how to talk people into buying worthless stocks. He's so good at it he makes millions both legal and illegal ways.Of course, when the government finds out your into fraud, they will catch you. But till then, Jordan is just into everything. There are some comedic moments like when Jordan can't talk and walk while on qualudes and when they are on the boat in the storm.FINAL VERDICT: I wonder how much of the story is really true. It's based on a book written by the real Jordan. And ways, it is a little long at almost 3 hours, but it's entertaining enough to sit through. Check it out.
I hated this movie. First it ran well over 2 hours and the first 30 minutes made absolutely no sense. First everyone whispers and if it wasn't for sub titles, I would have no idea what was said. Of course, you don't really need to know what was said because it makes no sense. It shows things like dinosaurs, creatures swimming, waves in the ocean, etc... Worst film making ever! And what exactly did Sean Penn have to do with anything??? He made no sense what so ever. After the first 30 to 40 minutes, we finally have some dialogue. There is a husband, wife, and 2 or 3 kids. But there is little talk, It shows the first kid from being a baby to growing up to a toddler, with little being said. It was like it was the point of view from the kid. It was pointless. Then finally when the kids are older, it shows the dad being mean to them and the mom has a pointless role. Just dumb FINAL VERDICT: This has to be the biggest waste of money ever. Anyone associated with making this movie ought to be ashamed at the millions wasted that could have been used for a good cause. Avoid this at all costs!!!
didn't seem very original. I guess that's why this movie didn't do very well at the theater. The movie is about a news columnist, Steve, that starts a conversation with a homeless person, Nathaniel, whom he finds playing a broken violin. Nathaniel tells him he is a Julliard drop out, and Steve sees an opportunity to turn this into a story. He tracks him down and asks him more questions and when the first column comes out, a reader sends Nathaniel a cello, which is what he originally played. Steve gives him the cello and it leads to him trying to help Nathaniel get off the streets and get him involved with the local sympathy.Foxx and Downey were good. But something in this movie just lacked capturing your attention. The overall story wasn't good enough and there wasn't a lot that happened.FINAL VERDICT: I only recommend it if you are a fan of one of the stars.
Grindhouse makes for an interesting set of 2 films. The first one, Planet Terror by Rodrigues, is the better of the 2 films. It is filled with comedic violence and gore. A gas is released that turns people into zombies. Cherry a hot dancer is attacked and taken to the hospital by Wray. She loses her leg from the attack and Wray so elegantly makes her a stump. At the hospital we meet a mean doctor and his cheating wife. The dead are starting to turn into zombies and we get some nice gore shots. The chase leads to a restaurant and a stand off between survivors and the dead. It's great fun.Tarentino's film, Death Proof, doesn't have a lot of action but lots of dialog about interesting silly things. It's like how you would imagine real conversations. It's a Tarentino trademark. The ending is just so right also, with the girls ganging up on Stuntman Mike.FINAL VERDICT: It has some uniqueness about it. And anything involving Tarentino is usually worth watching at least once.
I can barely remember watching the Smurfs when I was a kid, so it's been many years since I've seen anything about them. They are back in this movie, but it's definitely geared for 10 year olds. In the movie, Clumsy gets sucked through a portal into present day New York City. 5 other smurfs follow to get him back, plus the evil wizard, Gargamel and his cat Azarel. There helped by a couple, Patrick and Grace, in order to get back to their world. So, there's some cute jokes, but like I said, it's more for kids. Gargamle and his cat was the best part, and they should of had him using more spells that lead to disaster. I liked how they used computer effects to give the cat crazy faces and expressions.FINAL VERDICT: If you are over 13, skip it.
The car racing scenes are all really over-the-top and down right silly. The drift racing they do would be impossible. Bama Boy, aka Sean, goes to Japan and just happens to find "high school"(they look much older than high schoolers which is another glaring absurdity) kids into drift racing and he likes the girlfriend of the lead racer,DK. Of course, it is a set up for a final race at the end to prove who is better. This drift racing is so silly. It's like a car is gliding on ice. Then they go up this spiraling ramp to the top sideways. How silly can you get? And to make DK be involved with the mob also. When is it too much!FINAL VERDICT: Very lack luster. I loved the first movie. The second one was OK. But this was lousy.
I can't believe this movie even got made it is so bad. Nothing was funny. It may be about the worst comedy I have ever seen. At least the Scary Movie franchise does have some laughs, but this didn't. The movie parodies several recent comedies, most notably Meet the Parents, The Wedding Planner. If I had to point out one thing that was not absolutely horrible, it would have to be Eddie Griffin; he's not really funny in this, but he does have the potential to be funny and have liked him in other films.As for Allison Hannigan, is this really the only place she has to go after the American Pie movies. She wasn't bad in them. Too bad she can't get better parts.FINAL VERDICT: Pure trash.
This is one of the worst films I've ever seen. It's Police Academy on crack. A group of misfit Reno officers go to Miami for a convention. All the officers in the area are confined to the convention center. That leaves only the misfits to patrol the Miami area. Two of the woman officers go to the beach and one has a very large backside that she shows off in a thong. It is a very ugly image. The leader is a little light in the pants, hence he likes to wear short shorts to work in. The first night in their hotel, they are seen with hookers and doing naughty things in their rooms. Watch if you want to know. The Rock even makes a cameo and is blown away, literally.FINAL VERDICT: Pretty bad, at least it lasts less than 90 minutes. Too bad it wasn't entertaining or funny. It had potential, but failed.
This movie was awful in my opinion. It consists of multiple story lines that occur on Valentine's Day. There are so many stories, you never really find out a lot about anyone. I guess I liked Ashton Kutcher and Jennifer Garner's story the best; only because they were given the most screen time.The part that I hated the most was the press conference by football star Sean Jackson. That was so unrealistic and pointless. Why would an athlete call a press conference just to announce he's gay. That was dumb.And Taylor Swift may be the worst actress ever. She can't act, it looked like she was just reading lines off a card. Her part should have been recast and reshot.FINAL VERDICT: Not worth watching.
This movie had some pretty outlandish plot twists, but if you can overlook them, then it was a fair film. Jason Stratom (whom has become one of my fav action stars) plays Crawford, a cop whom tracks down the Japanese mob. Early on his partner, Tom Lone, and his family are murdered by the Japanese. Now 3 years later, Crawford finds evidence that Lone's killer is back and killing other gangsters. He's tracking a guy named, Rogue, whom seems to be playing both warring families. Jet Li, is Rogue, whom is manipulation both families to kill each other off, but why? It had some good fighting scenes, fast sports cars, shoot um up scenes. Only thing missing was the usual Jason Stratom shirtless scene.FINAL VERDICT: Worth watching if you want a typical popcorn flick.
Since this was released in main stream theaters they had to tone down the gore, which was a mistake. It was the guts and blood and tearing of bodies that gave the other Dead sequels their cult status.Still, I found this fun to watch. There is gore, like zombies tearing flash, pulling arms off, close ups of bites. And Dennis Hopper always makes a great villain. Here, he is the rich guy, Kaufman, who is the wealthiest guy in the town. He helped seal up an area for people to live and keep the zombies out. He has a very fancy high rise for him and other big wigs to live in. He controls what the regular people do, like gamble, drugs, prostitute and makes his money from their vices.This military guy steals this armed vehicle and threatens to blow his high rise up if he doesn't get 5 million dollars. This is the worst plot point because in a land of zombies, what are you going to do with $5 million. His plan was to get the money and leave the city and go where and what would money get you? I mean weapons and food are more important in a time like that.So, Kaufman sends a guy along with some others to get the vehicle back. But the guy he sends out is planning to leave the city too.And the zombies are getting smarter and using reason to storm the city. No explanation is given as to why the zombies all of a sudden learn to do this. They get the vehicle and go back to try to save people if they can. They do blow up the electrical fences so survivors can escape but the movie never tells where on earth they are supposed to go. They aren't in the armed vehicle. That was another part that didn't make sense.PS: Kaufman's chauffeur was hilarious when he leaves him alone in the car garage.FINAL VERDICT: I like movies with gore, so I liked this and recommend it. It just doesn't have a very good story.
I was a fan of the TV show and it ended how it should have. This movie was made just for the money, I guess they didn't care how it ruined what we think of the 4 leading ladies.Be warned, it is no where near as good as the TV show. First of all, all the witty, coarse sexual talk is nearly missing. Plus, Samantha has a boyfriend through the entire film, and that just goes against everything she was on TV. And Miranda's guy, Steve, has become a total wimp and Miranda is just grouchy. Charolette was still her happy self and a lot like her TV character. While Carrie, was still with Big, and we finally learn his name.The main plot is Carrie is jilted at the alter by Big. She remains depressed throughout the film. She and her 3 girlfriends find time to still hang out in New York. Will Carrie ever talk to Big again? After watching this, do you really care? FINAL VERDICT: The writing just wasn't as good as the TV show. And at over 2 hours, the movie is too long. Please, don't make a sequel.
I didn't think this movie was that good. It was rather boring, way too long. Not to mention the main characters don't do a whole lot. Sure, Edward Wilson helps start up the CIA, but this is far from a spy thriller. Jolie isn't given much to do except be a forgotten housewife. There were too many characters, and I got lost as to who was who. Also, with all the time jumping, it just added to the confusion of the film. Who was spying on who? Who were all the guys with Russian accents Edward kept meeting with in DC. I'm still not sure.Edward is faced with defending his countries secrets or giving up his own son. He chooses what a true patriot would do; however, helps protect his son also.FINAL VERDICT: Boring, the nearly 3 hour running time really drags this movie down.
I thought this movie was pretty good and had me guessing till the end. Two young girls go missing and Alex is the main suspect, only problem is he has the IQ of a 10 year old, so a lie detector won't work. The father of one of the girls, Keller, confronts Alex and Alex whispers "they only cried when I left". So Keller is convinced he knows where the girls are.So, Keller does something very disturbing and dark. He brings the other dad in on it and disturbing images ensue.Toward the end all the pieces begin to fall together. However, this is one of those movies that doesn't have a proper ending and we are left to wonder. I don't like that.FINAL VERDCIT: Good thriller, worth seeing.
I thought this movie would be more of a thriller about a woman trying to find her missing child after claiming the child found by the police wasn't her son. But, actually this movie is more about the LAPD police corruption. LAPD tries to hide any mistakes made by them. If someone says they are wrong, they have a habit of having them incarcerated in a mental ward. That is what happens to Chirstine Collins after she claims the child returned to her is not her son. She has all this proof her son's dentist to teacher to the fact he is 3 inches shorter than her son. Yet the police won't admit that the boy is not her son, instead they say she is confused and crazy.Chirstine finally has some info about her son when a boy admits that a man and him were involved in the kidnapping and killing of young boys. He points out a picture of Christine's son. The guy is finally found and the last part shows Christine going to two trials: one of the LAPD and the other of a child killer.The acting was pretty good in this. However, the movie could have been shorter. Because it was so long, it seemed to be void of a lot of action.FINAL VERDICT: OK, but too long. It wasn't really a mystery more about corruption. I don't think it was good enough to recommend.
it was no where near as good as Chicago or Moulin Rouge. The story just isn't that interesting. Sophie is getting married and invites the 3 men that may be her father. Her plan is to get them all at her mother's Greek villa and figure out which one is her dad. But when she sees them, it is not as easy as she thought it would be.The songs are weak, which is what makes it not so great. Sure Dancing Queen is a good song, but that's about the only one I really liked. And if I had a wish, it would be for Pierce Bronson to never sing in public again. He can act but if his singing was that bad, he should never have been cast in this part.FINAL VERDICT: Disappointing compared to other recent musicals.
a shaky camera does not make a movie scarier, it just makes it harder to tell what is happening. There is nothing special about this movie, there's some gore, but because of the camera work, it is hard to tell much detail about it. It's basically a chase movie. The us army has quarantined a section of England and has begun introducing inhabitants. Two kids some how sneak past security and head off into London, which has not been secured. They go to their old house and encounter their mum, thought dead. First of all, the army would never bring someone back into the quarantined area that might be infected, but they did. First gaping plot hole. So, of course, the kids dad becomes infected from a simple kiss and all you know what breaks out. So the kids, a scientist, and a sniper try to find rescue before being infected. Much of it seemed like the same stuff from the first film. And how did the infected dad keep showing up where the kids were. made no sense.FINAL VERDICT: If you have to see every zombie movie ever made, then check this out, but otherwise there are much better horror movies out there.
Once again, another movie that is no where near as good as the book. I read the book a couple of years ago, and I thought it was good and suspenseful. But, partly because I already knew the ending, this movie did not live up to the hype. But it wasn't just that I knew what would happen, but there are just too many slow moving scenes and puzzles seemed boring in the movie. It made a lot more sense and was much more suspenseful in the book.Silas character did not come off that great in the movie. He was much better and scarier in the book. And Hanks and Tautou had little chemistry. It was almost painful to see them together on screen.FINAL VERDICT: If you are interested in the story, read the book and do not see the movie.
This movie was pretty good, but could have been 20 minutes shorter. It tells a true story of how a top FBI guy was brought down for selling secrets to the Russians. The FBI recruit a young Eric O'Neil to be Robert Hanssen's assistant. He is to write down everything that happens in Hanssen's office and is used to get Hanssen out of the office when necessary. O'Neil begins to like Hanssen. He sees Hanssen as a very religious man with a happy marriage. He finds it hard to believe Hanssen is a spy, but when shown evidence, he knows Hanssen is just great at telling lies. We also see some of O'Neil's home life. His wife is not all that thrilled with him being an FBI agent. O' Neil is shown as the hero because he convinces Hanssen to make a last drop. I wonder if that part was true.Good acting by all. Laura Linney always seems to be convincing in every role.FINAl VERDICT: The plot sounds boring, but it really isn't. I say give it a try.
unlike Episodes 1 and 2 that sucked. My big complaint with Episodes 1 and 2 was the cheesy, simplistic dialog. While this movie had a few of those scenes, especially in the beginning, the dialog got better. It didn't sound as if written by an 8 year old. I'll skip the plot since about everyone already knows it. I think the rise of the "dark side" and how Aniken became Darth Vader was very cool since you know how it all turns out once he meets his son again. I cringed when we find out how Aniken gets all his scars and loses his limbs. That part was gruesome for a pg-13 film. And all the fights with light sabers were well done. Obi-Wan was really good in that fight at the end. The movie even made you feel bad for the jedi when they are being assassinated.FINAL VERDICT: Entertaining story. Really brings together what comes next in Episodes 4-6. I'm definitely going to watch this again. So, I recommend seeing it even if you didn't think Episodes 1 or 2 were that great. If I knew it was this good, I'd seen it in the theater.
but just doesn't pull it off. This movie uses gloomy weather and a dark background to try to be scary. While adding to the creepiness of it, the use of rain doesn't make up for the lacking of story. The movie could have also used a little more startling jumps. A lady moves into an apartment with her daughter. There is a nasty leak in the ceiling. She goes in the apartment upstairs to find it flooded with black water. Perhaps she should have realized something was up then, but she continues to live in the apartment. Cici, the daughter, starts having an imaginary friend, named Natasha. She learns there was a Natasha who lived upstairs who was abandoned by her parents. More creepy things happen, yet the woman never says she's seeing a ghost. I won't give away the surprise ending.FINAL VERICT: This was OK, not great. If you like creepy movies, then check it out. I just didn't think it was the most suspenseful film out there.
I liked this movie and thought it would be cute for kids and adults. It's sort of like a James Bond spy car movie. I also liked that the main character this time was Mater, the hick tow truck. I think Mater's voice is very funny sounding and I just like the dumb remarks. Mater joins his best bud, Lightening Mcqueen, on a trip around the world as Mcqueen is racing in a world car race. Mater is mistaken for a spy and is put in some funny situations. And the 2 cars that are the good ones, working with Mater were cute too. And I thought the whole plot of why the one car went bad was OK, it made enough sense.FINAL VERDICT: It's cute, check it out.
This is not one of Jim Carrey's best films. It's only for young kids and is rather silly and not funny. He plays Popper, a guy who inherits penguins from his adventurer father. Did I mention he lives in a New York apartment? As if that is a place for penguins. Some how he turns the apartment into a winterwonderland and no one notices this or the penguins. Then is divorced with a couple of kids whom take to the penguins. And some how all of this leads to a happy family reunion? Also could you imagine what it would smell like with penguins in an apartment? This seems like more of an idea for a cartoon rather than a movie.FINAL VERDICT: I think only kids would like it.
This movie would have been better if it had been a darker comedy. I was expecting this movie to be played for laughs but it is more of a drama than anything else. It's about depressed, divorcée, John, whom meets a great girl, Molly, at a party. They hit it off but she always leaves in the middle of the night. So, he follows her home and finally meets her 21 year old son, Cyrus. It's quite obvious they have a weird son-mother relationship. Cyrus acts all nice, but he really doesn't want John in the picture. So, we get a lot of awkward conversations between the 3, that could have been so much funnier. The only "evil" thing Cyrus does is steal John's shoes. I mean, they could have had Cyrus do much more despicable stuff. So, basically it ends with John trying to get Molly to see how clingy Cyrus is and Cyrus finally realizing he needs to grow up.FINAL VERDICT: Not funny enough to recommend.
I didn't think much of this film. The story was bland once they got to Iraq. The first part was OK, since it had some laughs with all the cussing and yelling done by the drill Sergent. Once they get to Iraq, they turn into frat boys. These elite snipers have fake orgies, have parties prancing around in almost nothing, shoot rifles in the air during a huge party-that seemed dangerous to me. Then they portray the soldiers as being angry because they never have a chance to shoot someone. One soldier goes psycho because he didn't get to fire a shot. The film also portrays some of the soldiers feeling that's it a waste of time to protect the oil fields.FINAL VERDICT: One of the worst war movies I've seen, and I like war movies. I don't recommend it.
Chris Rock, whom made his living as a comedian, tries to go dramatic, and as one would expect, it just doesn't work. He doesn't seem to be able to star in a hit film. Perhaps he should just stick to TV work where he was great on SNL. Rock plays Richard, a middle aged family man whom has become bored with his wife, whom just isn't interested in sex any more. One day an old friend stops by his office. Nikki still looks great and seems to be having fun stringing Richard along even though she has a boyfriend. She begins inviting him out to lunch and to just go places. And Richard, just seems not able to say no. He doesn't really want to cheat on his wife, yet he wants to bring some excitement to his life. And Nikki seems safe since she has a man. But, Nikki breaks up with her guy and wants to spend even more time with Richard. Richard starts the lies with his wife, but still manages not to get caught. And I guess if you want to say there is a big dramatic scene, it is whether or not Richard will cheat.As I've said, Rock is a comedian and not a dramatic actor. He doesn't bring a lot to this role. And this movie is not some romance comedy.FINAL VERDICT: It's OK, but the story is nothing great and Rock is miscast. It's not worth renting.
retitled Nick Cage and his very bad hair extensions. I mean, his hair is so bad and fake looking, it was a real distraction. Cage, plays Joe, a hired killer whom has 4 targets in Bangkok. At the beginning, we get to hear his 4 rules that he always lives by and of course, breaks them all through out the film. First of all, why would a hired killer decide to break all his rules at once, simple, he wouldn't. It was silly.But what was sillier was his romance in this with a deaf pharmacy girl. He goes there to buy something for his wound and meets her and he suddenly is like I got to get with this hot deaf chick, breaking one of his rules.Then there is the sidekick, Kong. Joe all of a sudden wants a student to teach. Get real. And this student can't seem to keep out of trouble, getting jumped and all.But what was worse was the ending. I didn't get why Joe would do what he did.FINAL VERDICT: Avoid this stinker.
This was a drama about adult children lying to their dad because they don't want to hurt or disappoint him. The most notable part of the movie is that several of the actors are big names, the director must be friends with all of them. The Dad, Frank, invites his 4 children home and they all cancel on him at last minute. So, he decides to go on a road trip and visit them all. All are keeping secrets from him because it was their mom they told everything to. It was kind of sad to see this guy's kids treat him this way.FINAL VERDICT: A family drama that's OK, but not really good enough that I recommend it.
Pathfinder was pretty good for an action film. It had lots of battles, limbs being severed, someone even gets drawn and quartered. Very gruesome. The Vikings are sadistic and love to torture the Indians. The main character, Ghost, was pretty cool. He was adopted by the natives when left behind as a young boy by the Vikings. When the Vikings come back to attack when Ghost is much older, he is now the hero. He manages to handle many vikings and kill them all. He also has the girl he likes and another Indian tagging alone. He eventually gets caught and must take care of the vikings before they kill the rest of the tribe.One weird thing was the Indians speak perfect Engligh, while the Vikings are subtitle. And Ghost remembers how to speak viking, amazing.The film is filtered to take out a lot of the light. Therefore, we don't have graphic gore since the blood almost looks black. But it gives the film a neat effect. It helps hide the low budget the film had.FINAL VERDICT: OK, certainly not one of the worst action films out there.
story sort of boring. I didn't think this was that great of a film. Yes, Terrence Howard gives a good acting performance, but I didn't find the movie that entertaining since it doesn't have much of a plot. It's about a pimp who just has a couple of girls he pimps out of his car. He wants to become a rapper like one of the guys he grew up with. He runs into an old friend who is in the recording business and gets him to record some songs. He gets into some trouble at the end, but still gets his music played on the radio. I don't really find a pimp to be someone to root for.Since I'm not much of a fan of rap, I didn't care for all the music in this. Plus, it has a lot of unnecessary cursing I didn't care for.FINAL VERDICT: Over hyped. But, if you like rap, I recommend it.
I thought this movie was terrible. It's about 20 years in the future and for some reason women can't have children any more. It's never explained why. Fighting is going on around the world and Britain is the only stable society. Theo is recruited by a clandestine group to help smuggle this girl he later learns is pregnant. How did she get pregnant when other women can't? Never explained.One question I had who is fighting who? We see soldiers with tanks and guns bombing buildings. What do they have against those people and why do they want to fight the army? Makes no sense.Plot and character development are awful. The action scenes aren't even good.FINAL VERDICT: Avoid at all costs.
This movie was not that good; not really anything original about it. A lot of the jokes concern Kevin James' weight. James plays Paul Blart, a mall cop that takes his job a little too seriously and has a crush on fellow mall employee, Amy. The crush on Amy was weird too me just because he's 15 years older and I don't think a young girl like Amy would really be interested in an overweight guy with a kid. Amy should have been played by someone older.One night, some crooks take over the mall and it's up to Paul to save the day. They have Amy and his daughter and he does all these silly things to knock the young, in shape, crooks out.FINAL VERDICT: Not worth your time.
I didn't care for this movie. First it was too long at 2 hours and there seemed to be too many characters. I couldn't keep up with who was who. Plus the language is too harsh and I felt unnecessary. This isn't Goodfellos. The movie is about some thug drug dealers. One guy owes some money to Johnny the leader. He doesn't have the money, so Johnny kidnaps his younger brother, and holds him hostage. However, it doesn't seem like the kid is too worried. He is not tied up or anything. He goes to parties with them, chats up girls. His mistake was agreeing to take a ride out to the middle of no where with Johnny and his gang.The acting was nothing special. It just didn't captivate my interest.FINAL VERDICT: I didn't like it, but I am sure others will. If you are a fan of any of the lead actors, then you might want to check it out.
The main problem with this movie is there is hardly a plot; it's mainly blasting guns. The movie barely lasts an hour because there isn't a story. The werewolves looked like bad CGI, they could have looked a lot more real.In this film, Selene is caught and it's 12 years later. Subject 2 releases her and she finds herself in a lab. Humans have removed most of the vamp and lycon problem. She escapes and finds Subject 2, a young girl she has a special connection too. She protects her as the lycans want her too for her special powers. So, the movie is just a shoot between Selene and wolves and people. I don't get why they aren't using supernatural powers; otherwise, it means nothing that they are vamps or lycans. But, it is basically just shooting guns.FINAL VERDITCT: Skip this one.
I liked this movie. It is a sequel that begins a new quest, this time to find dead man's chest. It ends set up for the third film that is its conclusion. The first film stands alone, but sets up many of the characters in this new adventure.The special effects are just as good and there is a new villain, Davy Jones, whose tentacles have a mind of their own. The new dead pirates on Jones' ship were cool, there was the one with the hammer head and shell head, just really cool. We don't get to see much of the Kraken until the end, but when we see it's mouth, wow! Also, Johnny Depp is once again great and the humor is back. I thought it was almost as funny as the first. And I thought the plot made sense. I don't agree with all these reviews saying it was too long, plot hard to follow. I thought it was very entertaining.FINAL VERDICT: If you liked the first, this is a must see. I will go see the third film in the theater. It opens this weekend.
There is nothing of value in this movie. The plot has been done numerous times and a lot better. The only difference is the good guy, in this case woman, is a social worker. Emily bonds with a girl from one of her cases, Lily. She thinks the parents are neglecting her and a phone call from the girl sends Emily racing over to find the parents trying to kill the girl by putting her in an oven. Sick right, but we soon learn the parents had a valid reason for this. And soon Emily sees it to. And what's her solution, buying dead bolts and getting a screwdriver. That's just dumb. She does a lot of stupid things in this, it's what makes the movie not very good.FINAL VERDICT: Not worth seeing
This is one of those films that is reminiscent of a Tartino film. The movie starts in the middle and we see the beginning in flashbacks toward the end of the film, and it all comes together. I thought it was a very clever plot.The Boss and the Rabbi (2 Mafia type heads) send guys to pick up a guy named Nick Fisher. They go to his apartment and a guy is there but says he is not Nick, but his name is Slevin. He conveniently was mugged and has no ID. The hot neighbor, Lindsey, comes over and Slevin tells her he is a friend of Nick's and Nick asked him to meet him there.So, Slevin talks to the Rabbi and the Boss and they want him to do something to harm the other because they are enemies. Later on we meet Mr. Goodkat whom is an killer, but who is he working for. Soon, we learn Slevin's true identity and his connection to Mr. Goodkat and why he wanted to meet the Rabbi and the Boss. It all comes together nicely.FINAL VERDICT: Great, I'm surprised I never heard of this movie before I saw it on cable.
This movie was OK, but it had no surprises since it followed closely the original, which is still a far better film. The actors, suspense(because it is not a surprise), and most importantly the musical score are not as good as the original. The death scene of Katherine and the photographer are better in this one. The hanging of the nanny gets more screen time. The priest's death is good, but I think I like the originally better.But what I don't get is why didn't they use that creepy music from the original. That was the best part of the movie. Damion was OK, but I thought the kid from the first film was creepier.FINAL VERDICT: If you really like horror movies, check this out. But just don't expect it to be as good as the original.
and it's Jack Ryan to the rescue. I hate it when movies keep recasting a character and keep making him younger and younger. Any ways, the movie starts with Ryan in a helicopter and he's injured and that's how he meets his soon to be doctor wife. He's recruited to be a secret agent and work in the financial sector. He gets wind of secret Russian accounts and goes to Moscow to audit. There he uncovers a secret plot by the Russians to destroy the US economy. He escapes a murder attempt and meets up with his secret contact. Now most of the suspense is about computers and downloading data, I thought rather boring. Then Ryan's girlfriend shows up and ends up helping. They go back to the US and for some reason he is the guy after the terrorist. You'd think FBI already in New York could have handled it plus he had that long plane ride back to the US. But Ryan saves the day.FINAL VERDICT: The plot was sort of boring with all the computers and would Ryan be the hero in New York when he still has to get there from Moscow. I would think other agents could have done it. Any ways, not a great "action" flick. I'd skip it.
I'm not sure what the writers were thinking when they came up with this script; but it is disgusting. This is supposed to be a comedy centered around an adult teacher copulating with her teen student. It's disgusting not to mention illegal, and she does go to prison over it. What I didn't like is how the boy, Donny, is celebrated by the whole school when caught with his teacher. Out of this comes a child, Han AKA Todd. Donny gets famous because of it but blows it all. Now it's 30 years later and his kid has nothing to do with him and owes nearly 50,000 in back taxes. So he comes up with a scheme to get money by having a reunion with his kid and the teacher televised.So Donny finds, Todd, whom happens to be getting married that weekend. Most of the movie is Donny acting inappropriate while trying to get in his son's good graces. Then at the end is when the other disgusting part of this movie is revealed and I'll just say it involves incest. It's gross, not funny.FINAL VERDICT: This was trash; I don't recommend it for anyone.
Lindsay Lohan plays a character whom seems like the spitting image of herself. She plays Rachel, a spoiled teen from California whose into drugs and sex and lying. It is very reminiscent of Lohan's own real life. Rachel is sent to live with her Grandma for the summer. She's glad to be away from her alcoholic mother, Lilly. She stirs up trouble in town with a local boy, Harlen, whom already has a girl, but she can't resist to try to seduce him. She also acts needy toward her boss, veterinarian Simon. She wants him to hold her and even tries to climb in bed with him when staying over. She thinks she can seduce any man. She makes a revelation to Simon that her stepfather molests her. Half the film is whether or not her mom believes her or her husband. It's hard for her to trust Rachel since Rachel has told so many lies. The predicament leads her mom to start drinking. It gets resolved in the end as to who is telling the truth.The title refers to one of the grandma's favorite sayings which is "Georgia Rule". She always says we eat at 6, Georgia Rule or no swearing, Georgia Rule.FINAL VERDICT: It was OK, but it is hard to like anything with Lohan in it because you know she has had it all, but decided to do drugs and who knows what else in real life, so she is not likable on screen.
This movie was too crazy and silly to be any good. First of all, since it is the sixth film in the serious, you already know there is no plot. And then too many absurd things happen. Like Brian returns to LA to go to prison under an assumed name. His cop friend just gets him in a high security prison under a false name and then he meets the guy he was looking for, fends him and his goons off, and the next thing you know he's back on a plane to London. Yeah, sure. But the worst part of course is the ending and the plane. The action here is just too over the top. Cars hanging on a plane, people jumping out of a fast moving plane and landing in a car. Give me a break, they would have been on the runway. Then how long was this runway. And the plane explodes but Dom walks away with not even a tear in his wife beater. And how could Dom not have known to hide his sister, terrible.FINAL VERDICT: Stay far away from this.
sort of in the vain of how girls gone wild. Tim from small town Wisconsin suddenly gets his chance to go to the insurance meeting in Cedar Rapids after lead salesman, Roger, dies in a disturbing way. He wants his elderly "girlfriend"( his 7th grade teacher ) to accompany him, but she won't; after all he's pre-engaged. He doesn't know how airport security works and is at first frightened when he sees his roommate, Wilkes, is black. He also finds out he has a third roommate, Ziegler, whom is the guy his boss warned him to stay away from. Ziegler is wild and is there to party. His influence along with Joan and Wilkes lead Tim astray from his plan. Tim gets drunk, hangs out with a hooker, does drugs, has a dip in the pool in his boxers, and sleeps with married Joan. But, he still "gets" the 2 diamond award before deciding to fess up.This movie is character driven and they were funny, especially Ziegler. It wasn't too over the top to believe a guy like Tim could go crazy with peers.FINAL VERDICT: Worth a viewing.
and that just did not work out. I've really liked recent musicals, but not this one. For starters, there was only one song I really liked and that was the one Uma sings about flaunt it if you got it. There were a few humorous scenes but not enough to make it a good film. And Will Ferrell was not funny in this. He was too over-the-top and silly and the accent was stupid not funny. Broderick and Lane act like they are acting this for Broadway and not a movie. They seemed out of place. While the whole act of "keep it gay" probably goes over well on Broadway, it doesn't have the over all appeal for someone watching this on TV in Nebraska. It you don't get to go to Broadway plays in New York all the time you probably won't get that part much; it works so much better in a play.FINAL VERDICT: You will be disappointed if you are expecting a musical as good as Chicago or Moulin Rouge. There is a reason why this movie made little money at the box office. It's a dud.
This movie was above average, but I think the ending was too horrible/depressing. Apparently this wasn't the ending in the book, and I think I would have liked the book's ending better. No one wants to think about what David did in the end, especially, to his own son. I mean, couldn't they have at least waited several hours to see if help would come.Mrs. Carmody was a great character, especially towards the end after she has won over most of the supermarket. She turns into the evil one. I'm glad she got what she had coming when she started saying "take the boy." Other people in the store played their roles as well. They just weren't in the background. And with so many people, it was not confusing thanks to a good script.The blood and gore is more than you usually see in a Stephen King film. That's another plus for me.FINAL VERDICT: One of the better horror films I've seen in a while. Much better than some slasher flick like the Texas Chainsaw Massacre remakes. Worth seeing.
To me, this is one of those chase films, just like Texas Chainsaw or Hills Have Eyes. In this one, there are only 3 young people for the sicko, crazy guy to chase. 2 girls and a guy are taking a road trip in the Outback and stop to view the Wolf Creek crater. After the hike, there car won't start, but they receive help from this Outback dude who offers to toe their car back to his place and he will fix it. The guy turns out to be a psycho and just wants to torture and kill them. There is some blood and one gruesome death scene when the first girl is killed. It looked very painful.2 plot holes I saw were how did Mick, the crazy guy, know Liz was going to get in that car and be waiting in the back. And how did he find Kristy just as she was rescued by another car. What luck.FINAL VERDICT: If you like scary movies and the slasher type of film, then this is for you.
This movie was fair; however, I didn't care for the ending. It's like they find a cure for the virus using people who are immune and then all of a sudden everyone is cured. It went by to fast.The movie begins with doctor Carol Bennell, played by Nicole Kidman. She drops her son off with her ex husband. She finds it strange that he called out of the blue wanting to see him. She has a patient whom swears her husband is acting strange and it's like a different person. On the street people begin looking robotic. Police are taking people and their are lines to get a vaccine. She teams up with a fellow doctor, Ben, and another lab guy. They realize some people seem to be immune. Also, she can not fall asleep because that is when the virus takes over if you are infected. Carol must try to save her son and herself.We get a lot of chase scenes and a few things that make you jump. The story was OK as well as the acting, but the film just seemed to lack oomph and a really stand out scene.FINAL VERDICT: If you like Kidman, you will like this, but it isn't a great suspense story.
This movie may have won some awards, but I don't think it is that great. First, it seems to want to be a light hearted movie about families for teens to watch. Then why are the sex scenes so graphic. They were totally unnecessary for the message this film was trying to portray. Annette Bening and Julianna Moore were good, but their characters were just boring. Plus, I didn't buy Julianna's, Jules, starting an affair with their sperm donor. I mean, she's been gay for a long time, and I don't see her starting up something with a guy she's working for, especially when that guy is her kids' dad and it would hurt them. Plus, I don't believe a guy in this situation would be attracted to a lesbian.And I really don't see how the kids are "all right" considering their mothers are feuding and having affairs. I just didn't think the story was that good; I would like something with more drama and things going on.FINAL VERDICT: I don't recommend it.
This movie was nothing new. It uses mistaken identity to further the plot and create humor. There is no doubt this a comedy not drama. It's very similar to other stories like Don Juan. Casanova must marry or face execution. So he gets set up but then meets a fetching young feminist who he falls for. Why does he fall for her? It never really tells. I mean, she fights him in a sword fight and he finds out her secret identity as a writer. And she is rude to him. But he lies and says he is her finance so he can get her to fall for him. As in any romantic comedy, it all works out in the end.The 2 lead actors did not do a good job. I like Heath Ledger, but not in this. And Sienna Miller is not a good actress, just a pretty face. Her time in the spot light will be short since she doesn't have much talent.FINAL VERDICT: Just OK, didn't care for the lead actors. But Oliver Platt does provide some humor.
There have been several movies come out within the past few years with this same plot idea. And that's the main problem, this movie was so predictable. Basically a guy and girl decide to have a physical relationship with no emotional attachment. And of course, they both fall for each other at the end.In this case, it's Justin Timberlake, Dylan and Mila Kunis, Jamie, whom decide to start getting it on every chance they get, but no dating is involved. Woody Harrelson is thrown in for a little comedy, as Dylan's gay co-worker. But nothing new is really offered by this movie.FINAL VERDICT: If you are a big Justin or Mila fan, I'm sure you'll want to see it, but otherwise skip it.
There's not much good to say about Babel. It is highly over rated by critics. The movie follows three separate stories that are not really that interesting. One involves an American couple on a tour bus in Morrocco. A couple of kids are playing with a rifle and shoot at the bus and hit Susan. Her husband, Richard, gets the bus to take them to a small village where they try to stop the bleeding and get a medical evacuation by some means. Real exciting hey. Next story involves the couple's kids back home. The babysitter takes them to Mexico to go to her son's wedding. Her drunk nephew driving them home gets in trouble with the border police and it involves a chase. He leaves them out in the desert. The third story is the worst one of all. It is so boring and pointless. A deaf Japanese girl has problems with her father and mother's suicide. She starts acting up by flashing people and acting inappropriate around men for attention. Sounds real exciting, huh.FINAL VERDICT: I'm glad I didn't pay to this. I don't get how this could get a best picture nomination. I don't recommend it.
I like Paul Rudd, but in this movie he is a dud. I usually think he is really funny, but this movie was a big let down.He plays, Ned, a hippie whom goes to jail for selling weed to a cop. First, you think Ned must be really stupid, but he wasn't. He was just a laid back hippie and it wasn't funny.After Ned gets out of jail, he goes between his 3 sisters and interferes/ ruins their lives, but as I've said, none of it was funny. Finding out his brother in law is having an affair, but just not getting it, not funny. Ruining his other sister's job, not funny. And then the third sister's relationship.FINAL VERDICT: A Paul Rudd film you should skip.
Hollywood knows a good plot for a romantic comedy, that is why every couple of years there's a new movie very similar to Sleepless. In this movie, a divorced woman, Sarah, is always complaining about not having a man. Her family rags on her a lot. Her sister posts an add on Match.Com to set her up. Sarah goes out on several first dates. One catches her eye, Jake, whom she met at the dog park. And that's about all this movie had to do with dogs.Any ways, she also likes the newly single dad of one of her students. So she dates both guys until she screws up what she had with Jake, who walks in on her kissing Bob, the dad. Well she soon discovers Bob was also seeing other women, so Sarah is done with him. Fate brings Jake back in Sarah's life. And she gets all wet to get another date with him. And it ends on a happy note.I liked the story, but it's not very original. Diane Lane and John Cusack just didn't seem like a great couple to me. I can't help but think of Lane as the cheating wife in Unfaithful.FINAL VERDICT: It's cute and charming. If you like romantic comedies, it's worth seeing.
The main problem with this movie is since it's a remake, you basically already know what will happen and what problem lies in the house. The story is a little different than the original. This movie gives the basement of the house more of a history; it's more than just a gateway too hell. It also explains why the house is haunted. I thought the remake had less creepy moments; no rooms filled with flies, no red eyes in windows. And how did the little girl get on top of the steep roof. And why did the priest not really care about helping the family.And 2 hot actors were cast as the leads. But it takes more than that to make the movie entertaining. It is like they wanted to make this for the young teen audience, but then decided to through in curse words to make it R.FINAL VERDICT:OK, but if you have seen the original, it ruins this one some. It would have been better if you didn't already know the story.
This is another zombie movie written as more of a comedy with some silly gore. The lead hero is the geeky, Columbus. A live at home loser whom has managed to survive since America has been run over by zombies. He meets fun loving zombie killer, Tallahassee, played by Woody Harrelson whom is still looking pretty good. The two join forces and meet 2 sisters that get the better of them. So, the rest of the movie is a road trip between the four as they travel west. Then the final part at Pacificland was rather silly because it just made the 2 girls look dumb.There is some fun gore of zombies ripping open necks or eating inwards, but it's not meant to be scary. Then there is the cameo by Bill Murray, that part was funny.FINAL VERDICT: Decent film, worth seeing if you like silly films.
of all the great reviews I heard about this film when it was in theaters. I thought it was OK, nothing great. I hardly laughed, but it was amusing. Alison is a reporter for the E channel and just got a promotion. So, she celebrates at a club with her sister. Her sister goes home leaving her by her drunk self. She starts chatting up Ben and takes him home. One thing leads to another and 8 weeks later discovers she's knocked up. So, she must contact Ben again. She realizes she is having a child with an overweight, non-working, pot smoking, mid-20 year old loser. But for the sake of the child she decides to get to know Ben and they date. She soon thinks they won't work out because he does drugs, doesn't have a job, etc... But, Ben wants to make it work so shows enthusiasm and wants to make changes.There is subplot between Alison's sister and her husband. They seem to be a happy couple, but more or less got married because she got pregnant. Allison doesn't want to make the same mistake.FINAL VERDICT: Could have been funnier. Not as good as 40 year old virgin. But check it out if you like adult comedies.
still not quite as good as the first Spiderman. It's just not as funny as the first, but I liked the story lines. The movie had several so it kept you entertained. As expected, the special effects were great in this. Sandman may not have been visually as striking as Doc Oc but it was very well done. I liked it when he would just melt into sand. Jealously plays a big role in the story line. MJ is jealous of Gwen Stacy, a girl in Pete's science class, who gives a key to the city to Spiderman as well as a kiss. MJ gets back at Pete by hanging out with Harry more. And Gwen's ex, Eddie Brock, is jealous of her hanging out with Pete.There are 3 villains. Harry is the Green Goblin again and is out for revenge. He doesn't care that Pete is Spiderman. There is neat fight between him and Spiderman and he loses his memory for part of the film, so he and Pete become friends again.The Sandman is an escaped convict whom turns out to be the man who really shot Ben. So, of course Pete wants to hunt him down. Several great fights with Sandman. And then Eddie Brock turns into Venom by getting some of the black alien sludge on him. The sludge is like a parasite that takes over the host and influences aggression. It tries to do the same to Spiderman but on a smaller scale. Venom is cool and should have been in the film earlier.The way they get rid of Sandman was a little silly. Is he really gone, he could come back in a future sequel.FINAL VERDICT: Great superhero movie even if not the best in this franchise. It was still a lot better than Iron man, the superhero hit from the first part of 2008. Definitely a must see.
I thought this movie was really good and was surprised to learn it didn't get nominated for best picture. It is one of the best movies I've seen in a long time. The movie says it is a true story and if all of it is true and not embellished for Hollywood, it really seems impossible. It's about a couple and their 3 kids whom are in the tsunami in Thailand and their survival. First, I thought the special effects showing the rushing water and waves hitting were really good. I have no idea how they made it look so realistic. I don't know how anyone could not have drowned being in the rushing water with objects flying around.Then the rest of the movie is about the family coming together and finding each other in chaos. I thought it was an emotional story and written well. Much better than most movies now days.FINAL VERDCIT: Definitely check it out.
Li has good fighting skills and ought to be doing better action films. But he picks such lowsy scripts. Maybe the director is well known since they got Morgan Freeman to appear. In this story, Li plays Danny, who is controlled by a guy who wants him to fight and kill. He wears a collar but I never got that part because even without the collar, he still didn't fight when he was with Sam and Victoria. He gets away and moves in with Sam and his almost daughter, Victoria who treat him humanly. He learns about ice cream and other things he was prohibited from enjoying. One day some goons see him and he is taken back to his "uncle" who is alive to continue to fight and kill for money. Except now he doesn't want to fight. Of course, the last fight is the uncle and him.The fights were cool, but short and not many of them. It was like he had special powers but he was supposed to be a normal person. I didn't get why they had him flying around like Crouching Tiger.FINAL VERDICT: Slow boring plot. Not a lot of fights. I don't recommend it.
This movie wasn't very good. It's not really a supernatural movie, but the way it is depicted it makes it seem so. These guys take a drug developed by the military and it makes them hallucinate. They see black demon looking things flying around. Apparently when it shows them, they are just supposed to be the delusions and not real. It was very confusing. And of course the trusted best friend turns out to be dirty. How many times have we seen that in a movie. And I don't know what happened to Mila Kunis. In Forgetting Sarah Marshall she was great and hot, in this she looked horrible and had nothing to do. I don't know why her character was even in the film. And Mark Wahlberg wasn't much better as detective Max Payne whom is hunting down those responsible for his wife's murder.FINAL VERDICT: From reading other reviews, I found out this movie is based on a video game which I have never seen. And just about any movie based on a game is not any good. So, I don't recommend this one.
med-evil knight, sort of, in this film. If you've seen it, you know what I mean. Rudd teams up with Sean William Scott in this buddy comedy. The 2 work together advertising the drink Minataur at schools, preaching against drug use. One day after Rudd's girlfriend breaks it off, he goes nuts and drives a truck on top of a statue. The 2 can either do community work or go to jail. They choose to be volunteers and are bigs to littles. Rudd gets a boy that is obsessed with Laire, a game that everyone dresses up from med-evil times and they have battles in the park on weekends. Scott gets stuck with a young kid with a very foul mouth that tries to get his bigs to quit.Of course, at first the 4 aren't that great together, but they become friends and Scott and Rudd get back in the kids' good graces by participating in the battle. They make up their own kingdom and costumes based on Kiss.It's sort of funny at times. But I think this movie seems more for 16 year olds even though there's lots of bad language.FINAL VERDICT: If you don't mind the language, it's OK. You may find it funny.
you'll like this. Nic Cage was half decent as Balthazar, apprentice to Merlin. The first few minutes explains what happened to Merlin and his 3 apprentices and about the grimhold and prime meridian that Balthazar is looking for. Then flash forward to 10 years earlier and we meet David, a kid that goes into Balthazar's shop and opens the grimhold, releasing Horvath. He witnesses this magic duel, but no one will believe him as the 2 wizards get sucked into a magic jar.Then 10 years later, the wizards are released and is after the grimhold and David. Balthazar believes David is the prime meridian and wants him to be his apprentice. From that point, there is good special effects with magic like real dragons, giant steel birds, balls of energy, and dancing mops. Horvath uses Becky, the girl David likes, to get the grimhold back. Then of course there is a fight at the end where David uses the magic he's learned.FINAL VERDICT: I thought it was entertaining and worth watching.
This movie was too long and moved too slowly. Plus it gets confusing once Norma and Arhur go to some library. The first part of the film was interesting even though it moved slowly. A couple is presented with a box with a button inside. If they push the button, they will get a million dollars but someone they don't know will die. Well, since this is a movie, as one would expect, greed wins in the end. As soon as they get the money, they regret it. I thought the money would end up being cursed and when they spent it bad things would happen, but instead the film went in a totally different direction that just leads to confusion. Lets just say, it starts from a supernatural film to becoming an alien film. Something about the guy who gave the box was hit by lightening and now has an alien spirit in him and he can mind control people. And I have know idea what the floating boxes of water were about nor the pool. And how does he make the kid blind in the end? And once Norma and Arthur make their final choice, does the kid die or is he cured like the guy said? The ending is just too confusing.Cameron Diaz does a terrible job at a southern accent. First they are not in the deep south, plus it just sounded so forced. The kid's accent was pretty bad too.FINAL VERDICT: I don't recommend it.
MJ fans. This movie shows footage of MJ and his dancers rehearsing for his European concerts. It begins with interviews of the dancers and how excited they are to be working with MJ. Then it's almost like one big long music video. MJ performs some of his best songs and you get to see the choreography that went along with it. Also, it shows him judging and picking out dancers.So, if you love his songs, then it's worth a viewing. It's not something you have to pay close attention too to enjoy. I watched it while playing on the computer.FINAL VERDICT: If you like MJ's music, then it's OK.
This was the first of the 3 pirate films I saw at the theater and it was a major disappointment. The first film was great and I thought the second film was very entertaining, although the creativeness from the first film had worn off. But this film was just too long and the plot drawn out to much. It had too many supernatural elements. The writers just made stuff up as they went along to try to solve the plot development. And the Kraken made one appearance, dead on the beach, and the film never said what happened.Since this was the third film, most of the jokes that were very funny from the first film, fell flat. Also with the long running time made this movie not as entertaining.The special effects were good just like in the first two.FINAL VERDICT: I'd definitely wait to watch this at home where you can stop it several times to get up. I'd only recommend it if you really want to know how everything ends for Captain Jack Sparrow.
Sure, this isn't Robin Williams best effort, it pales in comparison to Mrs. Doubtfire, but it wasn't the worst comedy of the year. It did have some silly laughs and seemed quite reminiscent of the Family Vacation movies. About everything that can go wrong does. There is one very gross scene, so gross it was funny. It involves emptying the RV lavatory. you must see it to believe that they would put that in a pg-13 film.And the annoying over zealous family they run into was funny. Jeff Daniels was perfect. He is just like Randy Quail from the Vacation films.FINAL VERDICT: Very silly. Kids will probably like it.
Forest Whitaker was very good in this and deserved the awards he won. He looked like the real Amin and I bought him as a brutal dictator. From reading other reviews, the doctor role was fiction and used to tell Amin's dictatorship though rose colored glasses. The doctor sees Amin with his kids at his nice house throwing pool parties. He pretends like he really doesn't know what is going on after hearing reports of people turning up missing in the country. And one of those guys is missing after Nickolas tells Amin he saw him conducting a suspicious meeting at a hotel. Nickolas wasn't exactly someone you root for since he goes after 2 married women and turns a blind eye to some of Amin's business.The story was entertaining and it didn't even have to show a lot of killings and mass graves that went on during Amin's tenure. There were a couple of scenes for shock value toward the end. One involving arms where legs should be and meat hooks. I had to turn away for that.FINAL VERDICT: Entertaining, interesting, check it out.
While this movie is not laugh out loud funny, I still found it cute and entertaining. I especially liked the unique and bright light display. I don't know if most of those lights were just computer generated or if they decorated a real house, but it sure looked amazing.In the movie, Buddy hall and his family moves across the street from the Finch's. He comes up with the idea of making his house bright enough to be seen from outer space. All the lights and traffic begin to aggravate Steve Finch. He makes an attempt to sabotage Buddy's lights, but his attempt isn't very successful. He competes with Buddy in the town speed skating contest. Steve's wife gets along with Buddy's and she and kids begin doing things different. Steve wants everything done the same as in the same "family traditions." Buddy and Steve learn a lesson in the end and what it means to be good neighbors.FINAL VERDICT: Entertaining. 12 year olds should like this as well as adults.
and his name is Dupree. Except let's make this boy a 30 year old man, who still doesn't know what it means to act like an adult. And you have Dupree. Carl's best friend, Dupree, gets kicked out of his apartment, and like any good friend offers to let Dupree stay with him and his new wife Molly. This is under the pretense that Dupree is there only a few days until he finds a job. Well, Dupree has more fun playing with the neighborhood kids, watching porn, tearing up the house, and that leaves little time to actually look for a job. Carl is under pressure at his job and his boss is Molly's dad, whom doesn't seem to like him much.So, you know a lot of silly happenings will occur involving Dupree, but he will turn out to be a good buddy in the end. I thought it was entertaining enough. It was better than a lot of recent comedies.FINAL VERDICT: If you like silly films, I recommend this.
don't make a good movie. It takes a decent story also, which this movie lacks. Why are guns the weapon of choice for Selene in fighting werewolves and vampires. I mean, she doesn't even use silver bullets. Shooting 20 shots at a werewolf doesn't kill it. Some of the special effects were OK, but some were cartoonish. There are some good gore scenes for all the gore freaks. How can you not like when the badest werewolf gets the top part of his head and jaw torn off. Also the badest vampire gets ground up by a helicopter blade. Cool. Question: Why didn't the father of the original vampire and werewolf do anything to try to stop them? He seemed to want to help Selene but used the ole they are my children, I can't hurt them? What? He didn't want them to succeed.Seeing this also makes you feel for poor Scott Speedman, who once had a promising career on Felicity. Now, he can't even get a lead role in any film since the first Underworld. Of course, he doesn't have much acting talent and should go back to TV.FINAL VERDICT: I guess if you liked the first one, you would like this. But for the average viewer, it doesn't have enough of a story to hold your interest.
I didn't care for this movie. I thought I was going to see a police crime drama, but instead the movie was all over the place. Is it about boxing, a love triangle, a rich chick, a bank robbery? The murder of Elizabeth Short is almost an after thought in this movie. What did all the boxing in the beginning have to do with the movie? Why was some bank robbery mentioned several times? When the other cop is murdered, did that happen in real life or is most of this movie made up?I thought the story was lame and the acting nothing memorable.FINAL VERDICT: A hodge podge of ideas leads to a mess in this movie. It it had been about the Black Dahlia as the title implies, then maybe it would have been more entertaining.
I didn't think this James Bond film was very good. First the villain is terrible, he hardly does anything. Then there is not much of female lead. Bond doesn't have a girl he has to save. Then the plot just wasn't good. The bad guy, Silva, steals a list of under cover agents and is going to post 5 names every week. Why, he never ask for money, it is just to get back at M. He has a grudge against her. And it is like so what if he reveals the names, just pull those agents out.The only film was just boring and the plot was confusing. And I didn't think any of the action scenes were that good.FINAL VERDICT: just skip it, you won't be missing much.
Sam Witwicky can keep getting supermodels as girlfriends. That was the most unbelievable part of the film. He's replaced Megan Fox with some Victoria Secret's model. And in this movie, he doesn't even have a job. That part right there just makes this whole movie seem so silly.In this movie, the decepticans have another scheme involving pillars stolen from a crashed ship on the moon. The film intertwines real people and happenings like Neil Armstrong and walking on the moon with the fictitious robot story. Optimus Prime goes to the moon and brings back an old alli, only he can revive. What he doesn't know is the alli has made a deal with the deceopticans as he is the only one whom can use the pillars and transport their planet to earth and take all of earth's resources.So Sam and his friends do a bunch of crazy action stunts to stop the decepticans. The last part of the movie is like one big action sequence that we've seen before.FINAL VERDICT: OK, for what is is meant to be which is a loud action flick.
make for great baseball comedies. Well, sort of. This movie was funny, but not as good as the original. Coach Buttermaker kills rats by morning and coaches misfit baseballers by afternoon. He loves to swear and drink around the kids while half-a**ing it as their coach. Roy Bullock gets under his skin and decides he wants his team to be good to beat Bullock's team. He recruits his daughter he never sees to be the pitcher and gets the bad boy to join the team who is a good athlete.The Bears fortunes change and they start winning. The kids go from whining about losing to gloating and just being very unsportsmanlike. For some reason during the last game, Buttermaker decides winning isn't the most important thing but fun is and lets all the kids play, including the one in a wheel chair. I don't think that went along with his character.FINAL VERDICT: It's funny in a sick sort of way. If you like raunchy humor, you will like this.
This movie is about the debate team at Wiley College. It begins with the coach, played by Denzel Washington, picking the students for this year's team. The college is in Texas and it's the 1930s, so racism plays a part in the film. The team goes on a winning streak, and begins to be invited to white schools. The team witnesses a lynching and finally gets invited to a big debate with Harvard.What I didn't like was the topics the debates were on made no sense to me. It was very uninteresting. Also, now that I have read some reviews, it seems like a lot of this movie was fabricated.FINAL VERDICT: I wouldn't recommend it. It just didn't have enough excitement.
This is a good movie that flew under the radar. I never heard of it till I saw it on cable. The movie is about 90 minutes long and solves the mystery of a presidential assignation. The movie repeats the same 20 minutes in time a few times, each time from the perspective of a different character. There is Agent Barnes, whom is back on the job after taking a bullet for the President, an undercover cop assigned to protect the mayor, a tourist played by Forrest Whitaker, and the president himself.Each time, the story goes a little further and we learn more about what is really happening. Soon, we learn there is more to what happened than the president being shot and a bomb going off. There is a lot more going on behind the scenes and this is a well planned plot by the terrorist.Some of the story does seem a little far fetched, but it is still entertaining and at the end, all the events are pulled together.FINAL VERDICT: Suspenseful. AFter 20 minutes you will get sucked in and can't wait to find out how it will end.
that actually made sense and wasn't too ridiculous. I was pleasantly surprised with this sequel. I thought it was much better than the last MI. There were still some outrageous silly stunts, but not as many, and I could get past them to enjoy the film. This time agent Ethan Hunt is after a criminal that blew up the Kremlin and stole nuclear launch codes. Him and his team track him down without the President's approval, hence the title, ghost protocol. The plot was easy to follow and not filled with holes. There was still some BS stunts, like Hunt flinging himself on a tall building, releasing his rope, and landing where the missing window was and being pulled to safety. There was also the trickery in the hallway in the Kremlin. I can't believe that would really be possible.FINAL VERDICT: Worth checking out for an action flick.
I didn't think this movie was that great. It was too long and not much action. And I don't care for movies that start out with scenes that are scattered and don't make a lot of sense. And this movie starts out just like that. And I didn't think the ending was really a surprise; it wasn't that hard to figure out.Also, Will Smith was very depressing in this, which I don't find entertaining. I thought Rosario Dawson did the best acting job, the first time I've ever seen her be good on film.FINAL VERDICT: I wasn't a fan of this movie. I guess if you really like Will Smith, check it out, but I can't recommend it.
that is the question this film just wants us to gloss over. This movie is the what if Blair Witch and Paranormal Activity go to space. It is made just like those movies, so I wouldn't call this movie creative. There are 3 astronauts sent to space on a secret mission. Two land on the moon and the other stays in orbit. On the moon, weird things happen, like a disruption in communication and weird prints on the ground. Of course, there is the dead Russian, and that part was sort of creepy. Any ways, their space car gets turned over. And we only get a glimpse of the "aliens", and they are very small, sort of like gremlins except smaller. The aliens could have been better. Any ways, it's soon apparent that the government had an idea what the astronauts may encounter.FINAL VERDICT: Not very good, the idea has been used too many times.
I thought this was one of the better films I've seen lately. I'm surprised at a lot of the negative reviews this movie has been given. I thought it was good. I know nothing about the original so can't compare it to that.A group of scientists hire regular guys to play roles in a prison experiment. Some are guards and some are prisoners. All they have to do is follow rules to earn 14000 dollars. Some rules include no violence, must eat all the food, and prisoners are not to talk to guards without being spoken to first. The rules seem simple but it only takes a day before some of the prisoners start getting fed up with it. It all starts when one guy won't do 10 push ups. I mean who would not do that for thousands of dollars. Then one guard, played by Forrest Whitaker, gets caught up in the power and things on downhill from there. His nemesis is prisoner 77, played by Adrian Brody. Whitaker and the other guards start getting violent; however, the experiment isn't stopped like promised.It's like one guy in the movie says, caged animals turn on one another. That's what happens in the end.FINAL VERDICT: Check it out.
This movie was disturbing and weird. These 2 guys kidnap a girl with a rich father. They build a sound proof room and keep her handcuffed to a bed. They cut off all her clothes and put new ones on her. Why? Except for the camera to leer at her in a perverted way. The men have hatched a plan to get millions from her father. But of course, there is a plot twist between the youngest guy and girl and then a shocking turn of events between both guys. Some filler in between is the girl trying to escape. Toward the end you wonder if the girl is going to get left behind like in a Saw type of way, but luck is on her side.FINAL VERDICT: Not to great.
but it didn't have enough to keep my attention. This story is definitely lackluster than the first film that was more of an epic. This story is more for kids obsessed with pirates. The majority of the movie takes place on a boat as the characters sail around to various islands looking for swords. This time only Lucy and Edmund go to Narnia with a new character, their snobby cousin Eustace. Eustace is the comedy in the movie as he argues with a talking rat, looks for the British embassy, and turns into a dragon. And at the end, they find the lion again.FINAL VERDICT: boring, I only recommend it for those under 14.
There was just too much going on for this movie to be entertaining. First the 2 main leads, Watts, playing a DA in New York, and Owen is an Interpol agent. Neither has much authority to do anything, much less in Europe. They are doing an investigation into a bank that is buying some kind of missiles and some how doing this and reselling them enables them to control debt and fund the Chinese in purchasing small fire arms. Are you confused yet? Owen tracks down the owner of the company supplying the missiles(I think?) and before he can get all the info, that guy gets killed. Apparently the top guy at the bank, kills off anyone willing to blab about wrong doings. And some how Owen sets the bank owner up by getting the info that he's also helping the Isrealites. And then I'm not sure what else happens.FINAL VERDICT: This is the type of movie you need to watch 2 or 3 times to get everything. However, there is no way I would sit through a second viewing.
I remember watching the cartoon version of this when I was a kid. I always liked the story. This movie tells the story again; this time with real people and cgi animals. The animals were very well done. It's hard to tell at times that the animals are not real. You can see where all the money went.I didn't think the final battle was all that great. It was just a lot of animals, whom were not central characters,running at each other. It was so generic; you've seen that type of battle numerous times in adventure films.FINAL VERDICT: It's a fun adventure. Excellent special effects, but most importantly is it has a good story to go along with them.
This really wasn't a great movie. Anne Hathaway isn't cut out for this type of movie. I like Steve Carell but this really wasn't a comedy. It was more of a sillyish spy/adventure film. Carell plays Max Smart, a top surveillance guy in the government agency, CONTROL. He really wants to get promoted and become an agent. He does well on the test; however the chief won't promote him because he's too good at what he does. A criminal organization involved with nukes has hacked into their system and got the identities of all the agents. So, now they need a new agent to track down the nukes and Smart is the guy. He teams up with Agent 99, Hathaway, who just had plastic surgery, so that is why she can do field work.Middle of the film is Smart and 99 in Russia tracking down the bad guys. Hi-jinks ensue; however, I didn't think it was very funny or creative. The Rock is also in this and plays an important part toward the end.Also the spy gadgets really sucked compared to Bond movies. This movie just added nothing new; hence; wasn't that entertaining. Someone jumping out a plane without a parachute and being rescued twice in mid air was just too silly for me. The only scene I can think of I liked was the duel dancing scene at the party. Smart and the fat chick really got down.FINAL VERDICT: I would skip this movie. Naked gun type movies are much better than this one.
The main problem with this movie is it has an identity crisis. What is it? The first 20 minutes make it seem like a comedy then it turns into a drama. It goes from an adventure romance into a war movie. The best part of the film was the scenery. Nicole Kidman plays Lady Ashley, a Brit that comes to Australia after her husband has been killed to see about selling her ranch. She decides to not sell to King Carney, but instead herd her cattle to Darwin to sell to the army. She enlists the help of the Drover, Hugh Jackman, and her farm help, including a young boy, Nullah, a creamy she has grown fond of. The evil Mr. Fletcher tries to sabotage the cattle drove and force Ashley to sell the ranch.And just when you think the story has come to an end, we get the whole Japanese bombing. It basically ruined the first part of the film. It was almost like a sequel.Nothing special about the acting. The best part was Jackman's shirtless scene. He is hot! FINAL VERDICT: Too long. And the story was not well written.
Personally, I think Chris was crazy to do what he did and also it was very cruel of him not to at least call or write his family so they knew where he was. Shortly after graduating college, Chris decides to give away his money and go on a road trip without telling anyone. His car gets washed out in the desert and from that point he walks everywhere. He lives off the land and gets a little help from others by hitchhiking. He travels everywhere and gets a job driving a tractor to make a little money for his quest to Alaska. He also meets two hippies a couple of times who help him. He breaks this old guy's heart by leaving since he was his only friend. Chris also takes a journey in a kayak all the way to Mexico. He finally ends up in Alaska and stays the winter in the wilderness. When he tries to leave, the river has flooded and he is stuck. Chris meets his demise in the wild due to eating poisonous plants.He wrote down most of his journeys so that is how his family was able to piece together what he did after leaving them. I thought it was sad for his family since he never called them. He may have been angry with his parents but considering what he did, I don't think he's a sympathetic character.There was nothing great about the acting. Only the outdoor scenery was about average. Otherwise, not a whole lot happens in the film.FINAL VERDICT: I guess if you like backpacking and camping, you may find this movie more appealing; however I didn't think it was that great. Not enough of a plot for me.
While yes the special effects are pretty bad and this seemed more like a made for TV sci-fi movie, it is not the worse film of 2005. Not even close. Any time you have a movie centering around time travel, there will be plot holes galore. Just don't think about it to much. Overall, I thought the story made sense enough you could follow it and it was entertaining. It's not looking to win some awards, just to have some fun. I mean, some of the creatures were down right funny. I laughed quite a lot once the sea monster showed up.One thing I always hate about these futuristic films is when they show the outside world. All buildings look the same, but they always have some tricked out cars. The cars on the streets in this looked so silly. I don't think futuristic cars are going to digress, which is what these cars looked like. They didn't look as neat as current cars. Although this movie did leave out all the computer hologram stuff you usually see in these futuristic films.FINAL VERDICT: Not the worst film ever. It was OK. If you like dinosaurs, you'll probably like this.
Jake Gyllenhaal's character changing wasn't believable in my opinion. Gyllenhaal plays Jamie, a smooth talking drug rep whom never settles down and tries to date every girl he can. One day while trying to sway a doctor, he meets Maggie at the office and is being an "intern" for the day. She's there to get scripts for her parkinson's. Jamie basically thinks she's hot, so tries to get her number, but is shot down. He just gets her number from the secretary. From there, the two start having bedroom romps and keep it very casual.Jamie finally tells Maggie he's in love. She's upset but decides to give it a shot. Eventually her parkinson's symptoms show up at times and deep down, Jamie really doesn't want to take care of a sick girl, which fits his character. But in the end, he has a change of heart, which is what I didn't think was believable considering the way his character acts.Also there's lots of sex and flashes of boob and butt if that interests you.FINAL VERDICT: I didn't think it was that great of a romance movie because Jamie is so unlikable with his sluttiness. But I recommend it if you think Gyllenhaal or Hathaway is hot.
I'm surprised at all the negative reviews because I thought this was a pretty good comedy. Murphy plays three characters and all are funny. Norbit(Murphy) is adopted by Mr. Wong(Murphy) and raised at the orphanage. Rasputia is an over-sized girl who beats up the bullies after him. So, Norbit becomes her boyfriend. Fast forward 20 years and the two are now married. Rasputia has turned into a plus size mean spirited, bully of a wife. Norbit does her command and even doesn't care when he catches her cheating. Kate comes back to town to buy the orphanage. She was the girl Norbit liked as a kid. Only problem is she brings a fiancé in tow. Norbit and Kate hang out which makes Rasputia jealous. She hunts them down and tags along in a bikini to a water park with them. I thought it was quite funny. It's up to Norbit to stop Kate's fiancé and Rasputia's brothers from turning the orphanage into a gentleman's club.FINAL VERDICT: I thought it was entertaining and funny enough. It's worth seeing.
Tom and Sofia are a couple in the city when Tom looses his job. They decided to move to Ohio where Sofia's parents are and Tom takes a job in the family owned ad business. He's working under Chip, a guy in a wheelchair that Sofia used to date. Chip doesn't really care for Tom and is always trying to make him look bad, such as in a wheelchair basketball game. Tom becomes suspicious of Chip, is he really paralyzed? There really isn't many laughs in this. It's rather boring and most of the jokes fall flat.FINAL VERDICT: I'd skip this one.
This was a pretty funny movie. It centers around a funeral and all the things that go wrong with it. Robert and Daniel are having a funeral for their father. A very short man shows up that turns out to be someone their father was having an affair with. And he basically wants to blackmail them for money or he will show the other family members incriminating pictures. The other main plot centers around a bottle labeled valium; however, it's really acid and other hallucinates. Martha gives her boyfriend, Simon, a "valium" and acts completely out of it for most of the film. Simon was the funniest character. You just knew he was going to start saying the coffin was moving. And the other funny guy was mean Uncle Alfie. The whole transferring him to the toilet was just gross yet amusing. And there were too many amusing scenes to mention them all.FINAL VERDICT: Betty than most British films. Definitely worth checking out.
I thought this movie was good with a different outlook on the future of dating. Theodore is recently divorced and buys an OS to be a companion, someone to talk to. He can choose the OS to be male or female, so chooses female, and she gives herself the name, Samantha. Theo wears an earpiece and has a little camera he can put in the pocket of his shirt, and that is how he communicates with Samantha. They talk about everything, and being the lonely person he is, Theo falls for the computer. And the weird thing is, this seems to be fairly common. When he tells his friends, they aren't completely shocked and get the fact that he is dating a computer.Well, this romance is "weird", like Samantha hiring a girl to be her pretend "body". But it seems all the OSs are growing and soon they sort of form their own group and Samantha is becoming more independent and before long wants her space. And Theo is devastated to learn Samantha is in love with others, like over 600. And in the end, does what he should have done in the beginning, which is hang out with a real girl.FINAL VERDICT: Interesting take on the future. I recommend it.
I thought this was an entertaining story and had some uniqueness about it. Scarlette plays Sondra, an American journalism student, in England who is picked to participate in Sid's magic trick. While inside the box, the ghost of Joe Strombel tells her the scoop: Peter Lyman is the tarot card serial killer. It's up to her and Sid to solve the mystery. She tracks down Peter, played by the handsome Hugh Jackman, who does a great accent considering he's Austrialian. She decides to get Peter's attention in hopes to find out more information. But, what she didn't plan is to fall in love with the charming, rich Englishman. But, is he really a killer or can she or Sid prove he's innocent? I thought Woody Allen wrote a great screen play with lots of funny lines. His character, Sid, was the funniest.FINAL VERDICT: Fun to watch, go see it.
This movie was mediocre at best. Time travel is always confusing and filled with plot holes. Doug Carlin is brought in by the FBI and shown new technology that enables them to view what is happening 4 and half days in the past. They are trying to stop the bombing of a ferry in New Orleans. Doug wants to go back in time to stop the bombing and save Claire, whom he is fond of after having watching her.When Doug hops in the hummer chasing the truck that was driving around 4 days in the past was really pushing the realm of silliness. The whole idea is just to unbelievable. And why didn't someone come with Doug. He needed some one else to where the hat while he drove.Denzel plays the role good as usual. I just don't get time travel films very much. They are too confusing.FINAL VERDICT: I guess sci-fi fans will definitely want to see it. But some of the ideas in this were just too far fetched.
not as stupid as it sounds. I thought this movie was a pretty good horror film. It starts out with 4 college kids on vacation in Mexico. They meet Mathias, whose brother has gone to an ancient Mayan ruin with a girl he met. Mathias plans to go the next day to meet them and invites the college kids he just met along. The group takes a taxi to the boonies and from there it's a good hike to the ruin. When they get their, some Indians show up and seem to be threaten. They kill one member of their group, and the rest flee up to the top of the ruin. What they learn later is that the Indians were afraid of the vines that cover the structure. At the top, they find some tents set up and think they hear a phone at the bottom of a tunnel being used to dig for artifacts. Mathias goes down first, but the rope breaks and he is badly hurt, and it all goes down hill for the group from that point on.They learn the vines are alive and appear to be growing on their clothes and in wounds. It causes a nasty scene with Mathias, and it drives Stacy crazy. She does something that is most disturbing. There is some blood and good gore shots, like chopping off legs and sticking fingers in wounds.FINAL VERDICT: Ancient vines can be deadly too. I thought the movie was decent. Better than a lot of horror films that have come out the past couple of years. I recommend it.
This movie was OK, but some plot holes got to me, mainly about the logistics. First they are in Pittsburg, then go to Virginia in like 30 minutes then are on a train to Nebraska. The train stops, they eat a meal, and are suddenly back in Pittsburg. How does that happen? Anyways, it doesn't take Taylor Lautner long to get his shirt off. He sure looks good, but too bad his acting isn't. His acting is pretty bad in this and Lilly Collins isn't anything to talk about either. This is an action flick for teens. Lautner plays Nathan, a teen whose real parents are CIA operatives and his dad has made a bad guy angry. So that guy is after Nathan to use as ransom. Then the rest is your average run from the bad guys film.FINAL VERDICT: For teens that can't get enough of a shirtless Lautner.
I loved the Muppets when I was a kid. I watched the TV show and loved the Muppet movies. With that being said, perhaps a 10 year old would really love this film; however, I was disappointed. This movie just didn't seem as funny or fun as the other Muppet movies. There also wasn't a lot of singing numbers as in previous films. Miss Piggy and Kermie were always my favorites, but Piggy wasn't her bossy self in a way that's funny.In the movie, an evil oil baron is buying the old Muppet studios to tear down to drill for oil. Walter, a huge Muppet fan, over hears this and him and his brother, Gary, track down Kermit to warn him. They decide to get the gang together to have a fund raiser to save the studios.FINAL VERDICT: Perhaps young kids would enjoy this more, I felt it was a step down from the other Muppet movies.
This is by far one of Adam Sandler's worst movies. I usually like him, but not in this. Sandler plays both Jack and Jill. Jill comes to visit for Thanksgiving and hangs out through the New Year. She is annoying, has a pet bird, and sweats a lot. Jack needs Al Pacino to star in a donut add and for some add reason, Al gets the hots for Jill. But, this is good for Jack, so he can get close to Al.The whole thing was just silly, I mean Al Pacino wanting to date Jill. And Jill is just so manly and has such a whiny voice. It was just silly and not funny. Katie Holmes has a lackluster role in this, why was she even there? FINAL VERDICT: Don't waste your time with this.
This movie is not scary, I call it more of a psychological thriller movie. Mike Enslin writes books about top 10 haunted places to visit. He gets a postcard stating do not stay in room 1408 at the Dolphin Hotel. He decides the hotel would make a good chapter in his book, so elects to stay there. He has to get his publisher to threaten to sue the hotel in order to stay in the room. After arriving, he gets an earful from the hotel manager, Mr. Olin, as to why he should not stay in room 1408. There have been over 50 deaths, from suicides to natural causes, even a drowning.Enslin can't be persuaded otherwise, and goes into the room. At first, there is nothing unusual about the room. He gets a maintenance worker to come up to fix the thermostat. The guy won't come in the room but talks him though it. So, the room cools down, and that is when strange occurrences occur. The radio comes on, chocolates appear on the bed, the window crashes down on his hand. He gets spooked and wants to leave, but the door handle falls off and it won't open.He starts seeing things, previous inhabitants of the room, but mostly other people from his life, such as his dad and later his daughter. It's like the room shows you all the bad things in your life and you can't escape. Soon, there is even a wall where the window is.Does Enslin come up with a plan to escape the room? Watch to find out.FINAL VERDICT: It's OK, but doesn't have that one scene that really makes you say wow. It's not one I would pay to watch.
This movie was very average. The special effects were OK, certainly nothing great. The story may have been a little better than the first film, but still it's nothing great. An alien, referred to the Silver Surfer, because he gets his power from a surfboard comes to earth. They learn that once the surfer is on a planet for 8 days, that planet is destroyed. The surfer is far more powerful than the fantastic 4, but they devise a plan to separate him from the surfboard. Dr. Doom comes back and very predictably is after the surfboard. They learn the surfer really doesn't want to destroy earth, but is forced to by another entity. The fantastic four persuade the surfer to help them out and try to save earth.The acting is not very good, and there is no suspense. It's just not well written.FINAL VERDICT: Not really worth seeing. I just saw Transformers, and it's a much better film, both in plot and special effects.
This comedy was OK; it had its moments. Stainer was the funniest character. All his crazy theories about 10s and 5s were funny, but his attempts at singing in the cover band was very funny because he was awful.The main story is about Kirk, a TSA agent, that meets a very hot girl Molly at work. He finds her cell phone and meets up to give it back. She's interested because she is tired of dating the "perfect guy" and wants to try something different. And Kirk can't believe she'll go out with him.The 2 grossest scenes are Kirk getting shaved by his buddy and Kirk having an "accident" the first time meeting Molly's parents. It was so gross, it's funny.FINAL VERDICT: Worth a viewing, just remember it's an R rating for a reason.
I'm not sure why this movie has gotten a lot of really good reviews. It was just fair. The plot comes right out of any daytime soap opera. A guy, Chris, starts dating a rich chick. He also likes her brother's finance,Nola, becomes obsessed with her. Nola breaks it off with the boyfriend and leaves town. Since Chris doesn't think he has a shot with Nola, he goes ahead and marries the other girl. He gets a nice job offer from her father and becomes content. But, then he runs into Nola again and starts an affair. It is the classic of husband telling mistress he will leave his wife nearly every day but never does. But Chris turns out to be smarter in the end than I thought he was. I thought he would never get away with it.But the whole plot was just too unoriginal. It wasn't worth being made into a feature film. Plus I didn't think the acting was anything special.FINAL VERDICT: OK, nothing to go out of your way to see.
I didn't think this would be that good since it wasn't in theaters for very long, but it turned out to be better than expected. Benicio Del Toro and Salma Hayek play great characters. Blake Lively is out of her league for this role, she was not convincing. Anyways, there are these 2 guys Chon and Ben that run weed in So Cal. A Mexican Cartel, run by Elena, wants to partner with them. They are planning to leave the country and not take the deal, but the cartel kidnaps their shared girl, O. Lado is the guy that heads the cartel's dirty business. Heads get cut, guys burned alive, torture, etc... He was a great character. Elana wants to keep O for a year, so the guys decide to get money to pay her off to get O back. The way they get this money was very clever and there is a DEA agent playing both sides. Elena was great because she is this evil woman, but acts so motherly and concerned most of the time. Then half the characters get played at the end.FINAL VERDICT: Not for kids, lots of violence, but I think it's a movie to check out for some double crossing and entertaining story.
I didn't think there was anything special about this version of Dickens' classic. Some of the animation was good, but it wasn't spectacular. Plus Jim Carrey didn't really use an English accent for this role set in London. I think everyone knows the general plot of this story. Scrooge is visited by 3 ghosts that make him change his ways. It's a little dark for younger kids. And it has a very slow pace, this story has been told many times better than this.Plus, with animation you usually get really good background music, but nothing stood out to me.FINAL VERDICT: Not a great version of Dickens's classic. I'd skip it.
I didn't care for this movie; it's like a crazy Tim Burton film. I did get the main plot which is Dr. Parnassus is immortal and has made a deal with the devil. The devil will get his daughter's soul on her 16th birthday. It's just 2 days till her birthday and the devil has made a new offer. If the Dr. can collect 5 souls before her birthday, the devil won't take her. I understood that part. It's the rest that I didn't get.The daughter and the Dr.s followers find Heath Ledler, whose name is Tony, hanging underneath a bridge. They save him and then it's day and it looks like this is the 16th century, however, Tony still has his cell phone. And then it goes back and forth between fantasy in the Dr.s fun house and what looks like currant times and olden times, like before cars. It was just too weird.FINAL VERDICT: I don't recommend it.
you know the movie is going to be a downer. This movie wasn't that good. Dennis Quaid plays a pompous English professor who just doesn't seem to like anyone. He doesn't seem to care to much about his 2 kids and doesn't want his adoptive brother visiting. He also never bothers to learn the names and faces of his students. One night, he falls and has a seizure. He can't drive for 6 months. So, he agrees to let his brother drive him around and also dates his doctor, a former student. On their first date, all he does is talk about himself and she leaves before it's over. The rest of the movie is the other characters around Quaid try to get him to see the error of his ways. They tell him to ask questions, in other words, the universe doesn't revolve around him. He gets another chance with the doctor and he changes his pompous ways.FINAL VERDICT: Not that interesting or entertaining. I don't recommend it.
This movie follows a story that one could say is based on several headline making stories about teachers sleeping with their students. In this Judi Dench, plays Barbra, a lonely school teacher looking for companionship and whom is somewhat manipulative. She takes a liking to the pretty new teacher at school, Sheba. She hangs out with to be friends, but one night discovers Sheba is having an affair with a student. She uses this info to become buddy buddy with Sheba, telling her she won't tell as long as she ends the relationship with the boy. She expects Sheba to be at her beckoning call. Sheba is unable to end the relationship and Barbra finds out. This leads Barbra to do something drastic in hopes of having Sheba all to herself. She starts to become a little psychotic here.Very good acting by the two leads. Both deserved the award nominations they got. This movie was also much better than I expected. I assumed anything with Judy Dench would be rather boring, but this wasn't the case.FINAL VERDICT: Worth a viewing.
Emma Stone plays, Olive, whom tells a lie to get out of dinner with her friend's family, and that lie gets spread around school causing many to turn against her. She decides to play up to her new reputation and is soon earning gift cards for her troubles. But then chlamydia gets thrown in the mix, and she really doesn't want that rep. The person whom spread it eventually admits it to Olive to get her to take the bad rap. Olive at first does, but decides she wants to clear her name for good, which is where the internet broadcast comes in, which was a neat way to tell the story.FINAL VERDICT: entertaining, teen movie, give it a shot
This movie offers nothing new. It's a typical love triangle with the angle of being set in the 30s in a travelling circus. Also, I didn't care to see animals being mistreated on screen. This was so cliché: young boy, Jacob, joins circus and falls for wife of circus owner whom just happens to have a temper and loses it sometimes. Also, he thinks nothing of throwing people off the train that he can't pay. But for some reason, the wife, Marlena, acts like she really loves him.So, you know what's going to happen. There will be several scenes of Jacob and Marlena sharing intimate moments, and of August being mean. And you know August won't just let Marlena leave and there will be conflict at the end and someone won't make it.FINAL VERDICT: It's too long, but Rob Pattison does look cute in this. So if you are a fan of his, you'll probably like it; otherwise, skip it.
I really liked this movie. It was creepy, especially watching it at night alone. Sure it was short and not a lot of plot, but that was OK with me. It's about a baby sitter in a large house who starts getting weird phone calls. I was scared for her and had to watch it all the way through without stopping the tape to find out what happens. You don't need a lot of story for such a simple concept. But for me, it works. I thought all the "jump" scenes worked even the ones with the cat.And finally we have a teen girl who uses her brain at the end to escape a killer instead of doing something totally stupid.FINAL VERDICT: Good, scary. Watch it at night with the lights out.
I thought this movie was OK, but no where near as good as the Shrek films, mainly because there was very little humor. It just wasn't funny, but the animation was very good. It's about Puss trying to find magic beans to get the giant's golden eggs. He's got Kitty Softpaws as an alli and Humpty Dumpty wants to redeem himself. Jack and Jill are his advisories.I guess kids would like this plot, but I didn't think it was that great. I think adults would get bored by this. It needed to be more entertaining with funnier situations.FINAL VERDICT: Just for kids.
This movie was not good. I give it a 3 only because the special effects with the prehistoric animals were pretty good as well as some battle scenes. But this movie is supposed to be about prehistoric humans, whom by the way, speak perfect English, have white teeth, wear shoes,etc... A tribe is invaded by men on horses who take some of them to make slaves. D'leh is the hero. He along with 3 others follow them across snow covered mountains, a tropical forest???, and over a desert. Never mind the fact they are walking while the evil ones have horses. D'leh wants to save his love, Evolet, whom is coveted by one of her assailants. D'leh meets what seems like an African tribe, the Naku, whom he gathers their warriors to fight the evil ones. And I guess we are to assume they are Egpyticans since they are shown buildings pyramids in a desert. Forget the fact the Egyptians come much later than 10000 BC. They also had mammoths working for them, whom were extinct a long time before the Egyptians.D'leh also has an encounter with a sabertooth tiger. He sets the cat free. It's a good thing a tiger has a memory and knows which human set him free. Also, where did the giant dinosaur like birds come from. I thought this film went back to Jurrasic Park since they looked like raptors. Did D'leh trek all the way to South America and than back to Africa in a day? FINAL VERDICT: This film was not really good enough to be called a popcorn flick. Everything about it was silly.
I had never read the book nor knew much about the movie before watching, but I just knew whom was going to die about 15 minutes in, and that is the fault with this film.Hazel is a girl fighting cancer and goes to a support group. There she meets Gus, a very upbeat boy just 1 year older than her whom tells the group he's been cancer free over a year. Gus starts up conversation with Hazel and the next thing you knew they are calling each other and spending time together. A lot of their discussions center around Hazel's favorite book and what happened to the characters in the end. Hazel begins to let her guard down and realize she should enjoy her life till it's over.Gus uses his "special" wish to take Hazel to Amsterdam to meet the author of her favorite book, but everything ends in disappointment. And at this time you already have guessed what is coming.FINAL VERDICT: It was an OK drama, but movies that try to feed on tragedy so people think they are good are not my favorite. But if you like to cry, definitely check out this movie.
since it seems every year, Hollywood makes a ghost movie set in Japan. Plus it seems the same female ghost stars in all of them. In this story, newlyweds Ben and Jane, move to Tokyo. Ben has lived and worked there before. He is a photographer. One night, they run over a girl in the road and crash. When they wake up, there is no sign of the girl in the road. It doesn't take long for Jane to think they are being haunted. Also, spirit flashes show up in the pictures Ben takes. What Jane doesn't know is that Ben knows more about the girl then he is letting on. Soon, Ben's 2 friends become victims, but why were they singled out. It's pretty easy to guess.This movie is written poorly. It's very predictable, using the usual scare tactics. The one cool thing was the film's explanation for the pain in Ben's neck. Watch to find out.FINAL VERDICT: Nothing great. I guess it's OK to watch if you think Joshua Jackson is hot. He's pretty good looking in this.
a racist cop living next door. Sam Jackson plays the racist cop, Abel, and he plays the role quite well as usual. When inter racial couple, Chris and Lisa, move next door, it's quite obvious Abel does not approve. We find out later in the film that Abel suspected his late wife of having an affair with her white boss. At first, Abel seems like a concerned parent when he observes Chris and Lisa getting it on in their pool because his kids also have a view. However, he soon takes it too far beyond the annoyances such as bright lights and flat tires. In not so many words, he tells Chris he doesn't want him in his neighborhood. Things go too far when Abel hires a thug to break into Chris and Lisa's. Lisa goes home early and is attacked. Chris discovers Abel is the one whom hired the guy which leads to a final showdown in the midst of a neighborhood fire evacuation.FINAL VERDICT: Sam Jackson is the only good actor in this. The story was so-so, and Abel never really goes psycho. I don't recommend it because there are other films out there out bad cops that are better.
This is another story of a kid befriending an animal, in this case the creature the legend of the lock ness is based from, but you could also insert a dog, mouse, etc... I will start by criticizing the very beginning. An old man starts telling two young people a story about a boy named Angus. Why, because they looked at a picture of the lock ness monster, and he says that's a fake and I'll tell you why. Could they not come up with anything better to introduce the story.Angus finds an egg that hatches into a water creature he names Crusoe. Crusoe more or less becomes his pet, but like all wild creatures must be released into the wild, in this case the lock. The bulldog Churchhill is used for comical relief as he is always chasing Crusoe causing messes in the household; however, I didn't think it was very funny. There are some scary parts for a kid's film as soldiers constantly bomb Crusoe turning him into an aggressive, scary monster. Angus is able to win him over in the end and all gets a happy ending.The computer graphics were OK; but it gets to a point where it is just to much and starts to take away from the film. Too much of it didn't seem real.FINAL VERDICT: Perhaps to scary for real little kids; more suited for 10 year olds. I don't think adults will like it.
but fails in the end. The plot for this film sounded good to me. A debunker of miracles, Katherine, investigates a small town that appears to be experiencing the 10 plagues of the Pharohs. I thought the movie was very good at the beginning. The mysterious bloody river and the death of a young boy right before it turned red. And the townsfolk seem to be saying a young girl, Loren, is the one causing the plagues. Katherine with the help of her colleague, Ben, and local Doug collects samples from the river and dying livestock. When the results come back that it's real human blood, I thought wow, this is getting good. But at the point when some of the locals go out to hunt down Loren and the attack of the locust, the movie gets silly. The once good plot just goes stereotypical Hollywood with the twist at the end and whom is really the bad guy. And how does Katherine know they are all first born. The plot holes begin to creep in.It's like the writer knew this was a good idea for a story, but didn't know how to finish it so just put in a lot of explosions and a very silly conclusion.FINAL VERDICT: If you like horror films, you may to check this out but expect to be disappointed.
This has to be nominated for worst film of the year. It was completely useless/ pointless. It's about this boy, Denis, whom gives a crazy valedictorian speech. He declares his love for Beth Cooper and also points out faults of some of his classmates and suggest his best friend, Rich, is gay. He invites Beth to his house for a party and by party it is just him and Rich. Beth's coked up boyfriend tracks them down and beats up Denis. The rest of the movie is just them riding around in Beth's car and she is one messed up driver. And that's the movie, and it wasn't funny. I couldn't get past how goofy Denis looked either.FINAL VERDICT: worst waste of time ever
The plot to this movie wasn't anything unique. The story takes place in ancient times. The Persuians meet with the Spartans asking them to surrender. The Spartan King Leonidas kills them and raises an army of 300 to meet the Persuians at a narrow passageway near the ocean to head them off. For a couple of days there are able to hold off the massive Persuian army before a traitor does them in.The visuals are pretty neat. The color is filtered to give it an older, duller look. The blood isn't as red. For fans of blood and gore, there are a lot of beheadings and dead bodies. Lots of people stabbed but not many close up shots. The fighting scenes have slow motion and just look cool. But the story isn't anything special.FINAL VERDICT: I don't think it is as good as a lot of reviews on here have it. But, if you like violent action films, this is for you. The story just isn't smart enough to get a top rating from me.
This is one of those animated movies that adults along with kids will enjoy. It is cute and funny and has a decent plot. The opening is great with how we learn the pyramid had been stolen: a brilliant idea. Then we meet super villain, Gru, whom needs to come up with an idea to top the pyramid napping. He is planning to steal the moon and hold it for ransom. To do this, he needs a shrink ray, which nerdy villain, Vector, has stolen from him. Gru adopts 3 cute girls in order to use them as a distraction to get the shrink ray back. But of course, being around the girls begins to change Gru and he begins to enjoy their company and being a dad. So, there are many cute scenes with the girls, like the fun park, the bedtime story, playing with the minions. Eventually, Gru must choose the girls or the moon and have a final battle with Vector, before realizing what's most important in the end.FINAL VERDICT: Very funny, and entertaining. Worth a movie rental.
This movie was very raunchy. A lot more so than when they go to white castle. Once again Kumar's love of the weed plays a big role. From showing him and his girl in a bedroom scene with a giant bag of weed, to what got them in trouble in the first place; trying to smoke weed on a plane. Kumar's way of getting out of being searched at the airport was classic. There are also bottomless parties, c ***meat sandwiches, whizzing Klan members, a cyclops child. And Doogie Houser, Neil Patrick Harris, is back as a whacked out version of himself. This time he goes through a road block all hyped up on shrooms. The idiot FBI agent after the two was gross. Just look at what he did to the Bill of Rights!FINAL VERDICT: It has some funny scenes. If you don't mind gross humor, check it out.
This movie is about 3 cops that are doing their own thing. I thought it would eventually tie all 3 together, but it didn't. The stories stayed separate. Richard Gere plays a cop about to retire. He never was really heroic and played it safe. After giving up the badge, he tries one last attempt to do something that matters by saving 3 young girls. Ethan Hawke plays a cop with money issues. He has a large family with twins on the way and he can't afford a new house. So, he's the corrupt story as he tries to steel some drug money. And Don Cheadle plays an undercover cop whom wants a desk job. He's asked to do one last task and that is to get evidence against a drug dealer that saved his life and is his friend. Something happens that prevents him from having to turn on his friend, but then he wants revenge afterwards.I thought the acting was pretty good and all 3 stories were entertaining.FINAL VERDICT: A decent cop movie, I'd recommend it.
I thought this was an entertaining animated film. First, the animation is great. Merida's hair is amazing. It looks like you could reach your hand out and touch it. All of it was good.The story was pretty good too. Merida loves archery and riding her horse. Then it is announced she must marry the son of one of her father's allies. She doesn't want to do this, so visits a witch and casts a spell on her mom. What she doesn't know is the spell turns her mom into a bear. Then she must make amends and overturn the curse. Once again the animation of both bears was great. And I thought it had a decent ending.FINAL VERDICT: This had some cute laughs and great visuals. Worth a look if you want an animated film.
If there was ever a way to waste 90 minutes of your time, then watching this movie is it. It was terrible. Nothing was funny about it. It was boring and predictable and childish. I liked the first film OK, but this script did not need to be made.This movie was like a stand up comedian on stage who looks awkward because after telling a joke, there is complete silence. It almost makes you cringe when Steve Martin says another one liner that tanks. I like Martin but he can't save this abysmal script.FINAL VERDICT: One of the worst movies of the year. If you are over 10, do not waste your time or money watching it.
I thought this movie was pretty funny. Will Ferrell was good in this. He plays the incumbent, Cam Brady. Cam is what a lot of people think of when it comes to politics. He takes bribes, doesn't show up to vote in congress, has a hot wife but is always cheating. In the upcoming election, he has competitor, Marty Huggins. Zach G is funny as Marty. He's got these pugs, a quite wife, and kids that admit to some crazy things at dinner. Cam punches a dog and baby and mixes it up with Marty's wife. Yet some how Marty isn't too upset. Also Cam's sexy call to the preacher's wife was really funny.FINAL VERDICT: It's got some funny parts. Worth a viewing.
and doing mean things to each other and still break up. Brooke and Gary have been dating a while and finally move into a fabulous apartment. Soon, they start to argue. Brooke can't take the fact Gary is so non-appreciative of the work she does and when she asks him to do something like help wash dishes, he won't do it. He's too interested in video games. After calling it quits they do things to make each other jealous. Brooke goes out on dates. Gary plays strip poker with hot girls at their apartment. Neither of them wants to leave the apartment since it is a great location. Brooke gets Gary kicked off the bowling team because she knows he loves it. Gary gets a pool table, something Brooke would not allow. And Brooke finally realizes it is over when Gary doesn't show up at the concert.It's just not the type of depressing film most people want to see. And the advertising makes you think it is comedy since Vince Vaughn stars, but it is not funny at all.FINAL VERDICT: The plot isn't that great. Who wants to see a movie about splitsville that has no comedy and nothing for the 2 characters to look forward too.
This movie turned out to be a little better than I was expecting. Sure it was silly; it's a Disney film after all; however, it wasn't terrible. The movie is about two old guys Charlie and Dan. Dan's ex wife comes into the picture and she has twins. She has to go to jail for 2 weeks and due to some circumstances ends up asking Dan, the father, to watch them. So most of the film is the 2 "dads" having fun with the kids. There's some laughs when they go to camp. They have a frisbee match and Matt Dillon makes a cameo. The funniest parts are when they go golfing and have all these side effects from taking the wrong pills. Charlie's facial expressions were just funny.FINAL VERDICT: I wouldn't go out of my way to see this, but if nothing else is on, it's OK.
Vince Vaughn is Fred Claus, St. Nick's older brother, whom is played by Paul Giamitti. Also, Kevin Spacey has the role of Clyde, a guy whom for some reason wants to shut down the North Pole. He's trying to prove that the elves are inefficient and can't keep up with the toy making demand. Also, Rachel Weisz has a bit part as Fred's girlfriend. The director must have collected on some favors to get all these actors to appear in a kid's film.Fred needs some money from Nick. In return, he agrees to go to the North Pole to help out before Christmas by stamping kids as naughty or nice. He kind of takes advantage of Nick's good will, but since this is a kid's story, we know he will see that he shouldn't be like that. Fred has to step in to save the day by flying the sleigh and dropping of the presents on Christmas. He succeeds and spoils Clyde's plan to do away with the elves.There's some mild children's humor, but this isn't really, really funny.FINAL VERDICT: It was entertaining, but I wouldn't really recommend it for adults unless you want to watch it with your kids. Adults would find Bad Santa much more amusing.
Will Ferrell and John C. Reilly just know how to be funny while acting stupid. The 2 play 40 year olds that still live at home with their single parents. Their parents meet and marry and now they must share a room together. The 2 don't have jobs and are basically the most irresponsible 40 year olds one could imagine. They start off as enemies but team up when Brennan's brother shows up because they both hate him.As long as you are no prude and not completely offended by the language in this(in my opinion way too many f bombs, but if it is funny, it's funny) then you should find this movie hysterical.A few scenes I remember are just the way they act when grounded from TV, the job interviews, Brennan on the drums, the rap video and destroying the boat, Alice and Dale in the bathroom, getting beat up by Gardoski.FINAL VERDICT: If you like adult comedies and are a fan of Old School, then you should watch this.
I liked the idea behind the Bucket List, but I thought this movie could have been so much better with a little more effort put into the script. I would have liked for the movie to include a few more comedic moments. In the movie, a mechanic, Carter, and a rich hospital owner, Edward, share a hospital room while receiving treatments for cancer. They become friends and once well enough to leave, they decide to set out on a journey to together to do things they always wanted to do. Both are told they won't live more than a year. They travel the world and Carter shows Edward he needs to put a little more joy in his life.FINAL VERDICT: Jack Nicholoson has a few good one liners in this, but the film starts off rather slow. It's OK to watch once, but not entertaining enough to watch a second time.
I'm not good at guessing plot twists, and I certainly never guessed this one. That's why I thought it was good and entertaining.Liam Neesom(Martin), whom seems to be the new older action hero, has come to Germany with his wife, Liz, for a science conference. He leaves his wife to check into the hotel while he goes back for a suitcase left at the airport. His taxi crashes into the river and he is saved by the driver, Gina. He awakens from a 4 day coma and wonders why his wife is not there. He finds her at the hotel, but she says she doesn't know him. Plus, there is another man that has taken his place. He has no identification to prove he is Dr. Martin Harris.Martin thinks he may be loosing it so goes back to the hospital for tests. A nurse there gives him a name of an investigator. A strange man interrupts his MRI and kills the nurse. Now Martin knows he's being hunted. He tracks down Gina but so do the assassins. We get some cool car chases and action scenes as Martin tries to find out what's going on.He gets his suitcase back and meets an old friend and finally understands. Now he has a chance to right a wrong.FINAL VERDICT: I thought it was exciting. I recommend it, it kept me guessing.
I thought this movie was terrible. As few films as Hanks and Roberts do now, why on earth would they pick this movie to waste their time in! Absolutely terrible story where nothing happens.Hanks plays Larry, a guy that goes back to college to improve employment opportunities. Roberts plays his speech teacher, Mercy, whom seems to barely want to do her job. It's easy to see where this is going even if Mercy is married. They have her husband be some kind of lazy, porn watcher, to be a good reason for their breakup.Then a young college student is thrown in that befriends Larry and invites him to join a scooter club? Just boring and this wasn't funny in the least.FINAL VERDICT: Don't waste time on this.
I thought this movie portrayed Mark David Chapman as a weirdo with real psychological problems. If this was the case in real life, I'm not sure about that. Jared Leto gives a good performance transforming himself from pretty boy to overweight, unappealing Chapman. Lindsey Lohan got a lot of attention for this movie, however, her performance was more of a cameo. She was hardly in the film.The movie shows Chapman arriving in New York 3 days before he shoots Lenon. He spends most of his time hanging out in front of Lenon's residence and chatting with other fans and doormen. He also seems to be obsessed with the Catcher in the Rye book as well as writing Lenon besides the gospel of John in the bible. Not a whole lot happens. He hires a hooker and buys Lenon's newest album to have signed. He tries to give himself a pep talk to go ahead with shooting Lenon and finally does one night.FINAL VERDICT: Not a whole lot happens, but Leto does a good acting job. I say only for fans who find Chapman an interesting topic. I wouldn't watch it again.
As far as a drama, this was a good movie, but the subject matter was dull. Also, I think the writer took liberties with Hoover's story and all the movie portrayed has never been confirmed. But, the acting was good and I liked the makeup they did for the older Hoover.The movie sort of confused me since it would jump back and forth in time, but from what I could gather, the story centers around the older Hoover as he tells about his accomplishments to a journalist and when it shows him in his younger days, that is him retelling the story. And according to the movie, with a lot of embellishments. FINAL VERDICT: OK, but too long. If you want to watch a drama, this is a good pick.
too silly for words. I don't like movies that on the inside try to appear to be serious but on the outside are completely ridiculous. And this film is one of the most ridiculous/silly movies I've ever seen. Please don't try to be real when characters are shooting bullets and some how making them curve in mid air. So silly. The action stunts such as when Fox is hanging out of the front widow shield of the red sports car firing a gun. So stupid. And why would part of the training to become a killer involve beating a trainee up repeatedly, even stabbing them in the hand. Or how about at the end when Fox fires a bullet and it magically travels in a circle.The one good part is Angelina Jolie is looking as good as she's ever looked in a movie. Her make up and hair are perfect for super sexy killer.FINAL VERDICT: Not even worthy of being called a popcorn flick. The plot was awful and I can't believe they are talking about a sequel. Don't waste your time with this.
I'm not sure why this movie got such high critical acclaim. I didn't think it was that good. First, it's one of those movies that skips around the timeline, which I don't particularly like. It starts to become confusing. Just show the film in time order. Also, the actors talk so fast, I could only understand what they said by turning on the closed caption. Basically, the movie centers on a lie told by a young girl, Briony. Briony sees her older sister and the house keeper's son near a fountain and gets the wrong impression. Then there is a mix up in letters and Briony reads the one she shouldn't. Next she catches her sister and Robbie in an intimate moment in the library. I think she is sort of jealous because she likes Robbie too and also thinks he is a perv. The twins run away and everyone goes outside and looks for them. Briony comes across her underage cousin with a guy in the woods. Her cousin claims she doesn't know who the man was. Briony didn't really get a good look, but assumes it must be Robbie and swears to it. She lies be saying she saw his face when she really didn't. This causes her sister and Robbie to live in misery. Robbie goes to jail and her sister can't forgive her. At the end we learn what happened to Cee and Robbie, and Briony does the only thing she knows to do to atone for her mistake.The surprise ending was nothing earth shattering. The movie was just too long and it just didn't capture my attention.FINAL VERDICT: Just OK. I sure don't think it was worthy of Oscar nominations.
however, the script just isn't as smart. Ben Kingsley yet again gives a great performance. He's very believable as Frank, an alcoholic hit-man, sent to San Fransico by the boss to go to rehab. He works in a funeral home and meets Laurel, whom doesn't seem to mind to much that he's in AA. And even when he tell her the truth about his job, as well as his AA group; no one seems to really mind. And this was one part I had a problem with because I think a woman would care that the guy she's dating shoots people for a living. Things go badly for the family back in Buffalo, so Frank must go back and take care of things. But, Laurel won't give him up so easily.Now to the story: it could have been better. It's a dark comedy, amusing at times like it should be, but it just seems to develop slowly. Needed some more action or for it to have more laughs and not be as serious.FINAL VERDICT: A good movie for watching Ben Kingsly do his thing, but plot needed to move swifter.
Charlize Theron's character, Mavis, is so unlikeable. Mavis goes back to her small hometown to track down her old boyfriend, whom is married and has a baby. She knows this before going. She also befriends an old classmate, Matt, whom is known as the gay crime guy. Matt tries to warn her but Mavis won't listen. She finally makes a fool of herself at Buddy's baby's naming party, by taking a pass at Buddy and getting drunk. And admitting she's after a married man. She there is no way you can like a character like this.FINAL VERDICT: OK, but moves slow and not a whole lot happens. It's one of those weird dramas.
This is another movie about a futuristic Earth and it's in shambles. But the rich are living on a space satellite known as Elysium. Matt Damon plays Max, a guy that suffers radiation and is going to die. So he's willing to risk everything for a shot at Elysium. He steals data from some corporate guy that can reboot Elysium and make all its citizens and can be healed.Jodie Foster is the defense secretary whom wants to take over and uses covert killer, Kruger, to accomplish her goals but he turns the table. Now, the biggest question of the film is what accent was Foster using. It was crazy, what was she thinking.Anyways can Max save the day and especially the daughter of his childhood friend.FINAL VERDICT: Poor script and the action scenes weren't even that good. Skip it.
Since this was based on a true story, I didn't think it would be that great since you already know what happens. But, it was better than I expected. The writers made the movie thrilling and intense. The pirates first try to board the boat but are successfully driving away. This part was entertaining. Then the pirates make a second attempt and manage to board. Captain Phillips manages to keep most of the crew safe and is double crossed on a deal. Then it is him that the navy and US Seals must rescue. I also thought the dialog between the pirates was done well. It seemed legit with the arguing but they had to throw in the one crazy one that just wants to kill. That was so Hollywood. The last 15 minutes was intense and that is all I will say.FINAL VERDICT: A good movie, check it out.
This movie really wasn't that great. First, you think it's going to be an action adventure since it's about Roman soldiers, but there is little action. And what action there was was a disappointment. The battles are shot with a jerky camera, so you can't even tell what is happening. Plus it must have been rated pg-13 since you don't see any swords piercing chests or throats slit. It's just implied.Then Channing Tatum is miscast as the heroic Roman soldier. He looks too much like a pretty boy to be a roughed up soldier. He plays Marcus Aquila, a Roman soldier whom is looked upon as a curse since his father lead a troop that lost the Eagle into enemy hands. He wants to either find the eagle or win glory on the battlefield to restore his family name. His instincts help the Romans defend their fort during a nighttime attack and that earns him respect. However, in a later battle he suffers major injuries and is discharged from the army. After recovering, him and his slave, Esca, head north in search of the Eagle. They encounter some mean warriors and meat a group covered in ash. Esca speaks their language which keeps them alive and then it's like a hound dog hunting a rabbit as the 2 try to return south and being chased.FINAL VERDICT: The action scenes are not that good, so that's why I say skip it.
This movie was clearly made because of the success of the Fast and Furious franchise. And movies that just to be like other ones usually aren't too good, as case in point.Tobey Marshall is a small time street racer. He and his friend, Pete, make a bet with Dino, whomever wins, gets the whole profit of 2 million dollar car they sold. But, just as Tobey is about to win something goes wrong, and the next thing he knows, he's in jail and Dino gets away.Once Tobey gets out, he encounters the car buyer, Julia, and they are off to California to enter a race in which the winner gets to keep all the cars, which total millions. And it takes a long time before the film ever gets to the big race. I guess the whole car getting lifted by a helicopter was probably the best part.Some things just didn't make sense. Why did Tobey do all the illegal driving when heading off to California? If he would have driven normally, the cops wouldn't have been after him. And for the big race, what is the point in winning all the cars, if all of them are totaled except one. Also, why did they have the finish line in a place where the winner is going to get caught. And come on, in the movie Tobey goes back at the end for Dino, that was out of character considering what Dino did.FINAL VERDICT: If you like fast cars, you'll like it. Problem is it doesn't have an original plot.
Need for Speed is a great movie with a very enjoyable storyline and a very talented cast.The story is certainly nothing new or original,and the trailers don't make it seem like its going to be any different to the Fast and Furious movies but it is very enjoyable and dosen't feel like a carbon copy of previous car related films.What made this movie for me was its extremely confident cast,I am a huge fan of Aaron Paul,because of Breaking Bad of course,and I didn't think he would be able to deliver the same level of great acting as he does in Breaking Bad,but,while Tobey Marshall is certainly not Jesse Pinkman,he still delivers an outstanding performance,he clearly has a great movie career ahead of him and this is his first film since Breaking Bad finished,and there's no doubt he has more great performances ahead of him.I also really enjoyed Imogen Potts and Dominic Copper's performance,these are two actors I've heard of,but haven't seen in anything previously,but after seeing them in this I look forward to seeing them in more films.After he is let out of prison,Tobey Marshall sets out to seek revenge against the man who framed him for the death of his friend.
This movie was OK, but it turns from possession into devilworshipping. Any ways, it's about a preacher, Cotton, whom doesn't really believe in exorcisms(even though he performs them) and even has doubts about the existence of God. He brings along a documentary film crew to a farm in Louisana, where a farmer insists that his daughter, Nell, is possessed by a demon. At first, Cotton, sets up a fake exorcism with fake sounds and props. They leave and Nell mysteriously shows up at their hotel. They take her home and think she needs psychiatric help. They stick around the next day trying to talk the dad into the help, but she cuts her brother. The dad takes him to the hospital and Cotton and his film crew are alone with Nell. What happens makes them think maybe something is inside her. She kills a cat and draws pictures of them dead and makes weird noises. Then at the end the movie turns south by throwing in devil worshiping.FINAL VERDICT: a cult like movie, worth checking out for horror fans
I happen to love islands and the turquoise color water, so I found this movie entertaining. The story isn't that good. It's just like that movie that came out with Jessica Alba, Into the Blue, except there are no sharks in this film. This movie also tried to be funny, but really didn't succeed. Part of the problem was Matt McConaughey and Kate Hudson just didn't seem like they would mesh together. He's wild and care free in this and her character is book smart more uptight.Tess has just divorced Ben; however, Ben has just found a plate that was from a treasure they have been looking for. Somoeone tells him that mega millionaire, Nigel Honeycutt's boat is anchored in the harbor, so Ben decides he'll try to convince him to fund his search for the treasure. What he doesn't know is Tess works as a steward on his boat. Some irony. Ben saves Gemma's hat, Nigel's daughter, and she is all for helping him out. Soon they go to a group of islands owned by a rapper, named big bunny, whom is also known to kill people. Ben also owes him over $60000 and happens to be one of those he tried to kill. Bunny has hired a guy of his own to look for the treasure. Now it's a race as to who can find it first.Of course, you know Ben and Tess will have to work together to solve the mystery and will fall in love again. Gemma's crush on Ben is short lived. Ben's diving partner is her love interest. And along the way, we get to see some beautiful scenery of the clear ocean water and island landscapes.FINAL VERDICT: Not that good of a story, I recommend it only if you are like me and just love tropical islands and the clear ocean water.
The paper thin story in Stealth is what really brings it down. We have 3 Stealth pilots who are being teamed with a 4th plane, which is pilotless; they call it Edi, or Tinman, and it thinks for itself. The plane has some flaws but their Captain doesn't care. He wants to test it in real combat situations. In only the second mission, the plane disobeys orders and goes haywire. It's intent on destroying what ever target it's focused on. And it will get rid of the other pilots if it has to in order destroy its target. And we get the Hollywood romance thrown in between 2 of the pilots. So silly. And some how Jessica Biel just doesn't fit the bill as a fighter pilot. She is so miscast.Now the good parts are the special effects. The planes in the air look real. And you feel like you are in the seat of one of those planes as it whizzes by. Now the escape of Kara out of her plane was a little far-fetched.And of course the other silly plot idea was the Captain setting Ben up to be killed in Alaska. He wasn't some evil villain. And then Ben gets in Tinman and rescues Kara at the Korean border. And some other US planes happen to show up right when they cross the border. Why didn't they just contact the South Koreans and have them let her pass through the gate. And since they never did that, why did the South Koreans disappear at the gate after being fired on a bit. I doubt they all ran away.FINAL VERDICT: If you like stories and plots, stay away, but if you just want to watch an action film for guys, then this is for you.
For such a cheesy, straight forward action flick, this is actually pretty good. If you are a fan of 80 and 90s action flicks, then you gotta love this. Stallone is back with his gang plus Liam Hemsworth and we get a great rescue mission in the first 15 minutes of the film. They save someone pretty interesting. There's lots of guns, bombs, people getting their head shot off. Then Bruce Willis gives them a new mission, and the young guy gets killed, by the bad guy, conventialy named Villain, played by Van Damme. There's some silly plot about mines and plutonium, but that's not why you are watching. You want to see the "old guys" kick some booty and fire guns and bombs.FINAL VERDICT: It's entertaining. If you like action, check it out.
One in which it isn't about the Italian or Russian mob. The gangsters here are American born and run Harlem. Headman Bumpy Johnson dies and his driver, Frank Lucas, decides its his time to take over the business. Frank's getting squeezed by local players and decides he must do something to get more of the dope market and to be the top dog. There are reports that soldiers in Vietnam are becoming addicted to heroin because of its cheap price and easy access. Frank goes over there and uses some connections and makes a deal to ship pure heroin using Army planes back to the US for distribution. Before long he has control over the dope market in New York and is top dog. He even shoots someone on the sidewalk in front of many people to prove he's not afraid and to put fear in the commoner.Russell Crowe plays the cop whom is assigned to form a drug force to take down big players in New York. His investigation leads to once unknown Frank as being the big supplier.So, the latter part of the film is the police investigation into Frank and how the dirty cops play into it all. The film also shows us some of Frank's personal life with his mom and wife. And it's all very entertaining. The film is long at over 2 and a half hours, but it seemed to fly by. That's the mark of a good film.FINAL VERDICT: I'm a big fan of Russell Crowe and he doesn't disappoint here. He's good in this as well as Denzel. The film is one of the best of the year.
That would be a better title for this remake. A group of novice marines are sent to Sector 16 and discover all the scientists missing. They begin climbing the rocks looking for people and are ambushed by the mountain mutants. I thought the mutants could have been done more realistic. In this movie, they seem to have super human strength and are really disfigured with boils all over them. They didn't look real enough, hence not as creepy.Now to the reason to watch this film: Gore. If you love lots of blood, violence, and gore then this movie is for you. People are torn into, we see a room filled with hanging body parts, eyes are poked out, skulls bashed in, pipes though heads, and about anything else you can think of.FINAL VERDICT: Not a whole lot of effect went into writing the plot to this movie, but it is for the gore hounds. So watch at your own discretion.
Lindsey Lohan was miscast and the conclusion to this was more than just absurd, unbelievable, etc... Lohan plays Aubrey, a high school teen who gets kidnapped by a serial killer. We see her tortured in very grotesque ways. A woman finds a mutilated young girl by the road who is still alive. The girl is identified as Aubrey; however, she insists her name is Dakota and does not know her parents or friends. Dakota's personality is not like Aubrey's. She says she is a stripper and her mother died from drugs. The Flemming's take Dakota home with them; hoping to get their daughter back. Dakota insists her limbs just started falling off. The twist at the end is more than far fetched. The explanation for how fingers and legs could just fall off was more than silly.As many have said, Lohon is pretty bad in this. And her stripper scenes make her look used and cheap. This in not the script to pick for someone trying to move their movie career along.FINAL VERDICT: This movie is so bad that it might actually be one of those films people watch to get a chuckle and play a drinking game. But if you are a Lohan fan, I say don't watch this because it does not make her look good.
This movie was OK, but the special effects were not the greatest. In this version, Sean intercepts a mysterious code he believes is from his grandfather, whom has disappeared. In an attempt to bond, his stepfather, Hank, agrees to go on a search for gramps. They decode the message and are on their way to a far off island in the Pacific. There they hire a helicopter to take them to the island, but it goes down and there adventure really begins. So, it's Hank, Sean, the pilot, and his daughter. They meet giant lizards, huge bees, big bugs, and find Gramps. They even discover the lost city of Atlantis, which just happens to be going under. So the final is them finding a way off the island, and they must use Nemo and a giant electric eel to do so.FINAL VERDICT: More for kids.
I didn't think this movie was very entertaining. It just turned into a guy trying to avoid dumb bad guys, save the girl, and save a book. The turns out to be a bible that is the last remaining copy. All other bibles have been burned when society was destroyed. Even shampoo is very valuable in this new world.The movie mentions cannibalism, but it's never really shown. They could have done that to have some good gore. Instead we see 2 old people with the shakes.As I mentioned, the chase between the bad guys and the good guys(Eli and Solara) was very boring, nothing new and nothing cool. Nothing surprising really happens.FINAL VERDICT: Who knew the end of the world would be so dull
I was disappointed in this remake. At least they did try to get a little creative by involving a lake house instead of only having Jason at Camp Crystal. Who knew Jason could leave the campground. The main disappointment was the killings weren't that good for a slasher flick. There wasn't a whole lot of blood and what killings they did show were quick. There wasn't much detail. Also, Jason does not take prisoners, so he would never have kept Whitney alive. It's not right for some remake to completely rewrite the rules of a classic killer. Also, this movie had quite a bit more T&A than most of the 13th sequels. It was clearly pandering to 15 year old boys.FINAL VERDICT: If you are going to redo a classic about a serial killer, at least have new innovative ways to kill of the teens. The killings just weren't that good and not enough gore. I only recommend this if you want to watch a movie with friends that is so bad, it's actually funny and you can have fun laughing at it.
While the acting is nothing to talk about, the movie does have good special effects, but not great. Perseus, a demi-god, sets upon a quest to save a kingdom against Hades and the Kraken. He also has a personal grudge against Hades since he is responsible for his human families deaths.So, he sets out with some soldiers and travels through a desert. There they encounter these mystical people and giant scorpions. Here we get a battle scene that after a while gets old. One of the desert people joins the quest as they go to see these witches to learn how to defeat the Kraken. Then it is off to the underworld and to kill Medusa. The Medusa part was OK, but the special effects could have been better. Then the fall of the Kraken was rather uneventful.FINAL VERDICT: The story definitely could have been better. But it was a descent action flick. I recommend it if an action film is what you are looking for.
I thought this movie was OK, with less plot holes than a lot of futuristic movies. The great Forrest Whitaker is in this and I thought he was good as usual and Jude Law did an OK job also. Law and Whitaker play Repomen, whose job is to reclaim organs from people whom fall behind on payments. Law's wife wants him to quit the job and move to sales, but Whitaker whom has know him since their army days, wants to keep his partner. So, Law does one last organ claim but suffers in accident that leaves him with a new heart. He can no longer do his job because he sees the other side now, so he defaults on payment. Not Law is being hunted by the same guys he used to work with. He teams up with a girl whom has a new everything as they try to escape.So, we get a lot of chase scenes and some cool action. And some of it gets really violent, like the knife killing scene toward the end. Why are executive looking people in suites carrying around meat cleavers? That scene was pretty silly but we learn why at the end, as in (spoiler: did it really happen).FINAL VERDICT: Worth viewing for action fans.
It lets you come to your own conclusion. This is the story of an exorcism told in a court room. Through flashbacks we see some of the things that occurred to Emily that led one to believe she was possessed. The movie wanted the audience to believe it by showing the demons. Plus, I liked how they showed the lawyer, Erin, had some creepy feelings and uneasiness about the case. What I wonder is in the true story did Erin really have those weird things happen to her at 3 AM.FINAL VERDICT: I recommend it. It was entertaining and suspenseful. It's not meant to be a scary horror movie, but a well thought out drama.
This movie was so unimaginative. The same things happen as in the first movie. I liked the first movie; I thought it was creepy. But in the sequel the boy and woman create the exact same scares. So it is not scary this time because you have seen it before. The boy sounds like a cat and pops up out of no where. Miyuki even discovers the woman under the sheets, an exact same scene from the original.The part about Aubrey tracking down the dead woman's mom to see if she can break the curse was very confusing. It made no sense. What did she think the old woman could do? It was put in there just to add filler. Also the script writer added rules as it went along. Only people who entered the house were cursed. Yet the ghost gets the people who were living next door to the cursed girl.FINAL VERDICT: Poor execution. It is not even creepy.
let their 2 sons swear at them all the time, then this film is for you. I think the bad language the kids use while around their parents was disturbing. They should have gotten their hides tanned for talking like that, instead the parents just say stop, but that doesn't do any good. The kids start acting up because their parents are getting divorced. Their parents both have phds in literature. The dad is jealous because his work has been going no where while his wife's writing is becoming more successful. The dad gets a new house and the boys split time between homes. The parents begin spilling all their secrets to the kids, they find out about affairs, etc... And the youngest son begins drinking, yet the parents don't seem to notice or care because he is seen with a beer in his hand, yet nothing is done.Bottom line is this was one messed up family.FINAL VERDICT: Short, not a lot of story. Some will find it amusing, others will hate it. I recommend it only if you are a drama fan or to see Laura Linney's great performance.
Was this a drama or a comedy? Suitable for kids or a R rating? To me it was like at first they wanted a R rating with all the on screen killings, but then decided to edit it to a pg-13. None of the deaths are violent and there's no blood, but it seemed like a lot of deaths not to be R.But the big mistake is attempting to turn this into a comedy, which it wasn't. At first, this seems like a mystery that two brothers are going to solve, then they start throwing jokes in. A few are funny, but most fall flat. Then the story goes back to serious then back to silly, with the Italian.And sound editing was bad. I had to watch this with closed caption to even get the plot. I still didn't get why the French general cared about the missing kids. They were German not French.The director tried to through in as many references to Grimm fairy tales he could. They seemed out of place. Like the mud gingerbread man, that made no sense.FINAL VERDICT: Confusing story, not really a mystery and not a comedy. Plus Matt Damon and Heath Ledger are uglied up and not hot in this. I don't recommend it.
Going in, I thought this was going to be some kind of a spooky story involving the supernatural or possibly solving a murder mystery. And it really wasn't. There is a little supernatural thrown in, but the ghosts never do what you think they are there to do. And it's not supposed to be scary.I don't want to give it away, but Daniel Craig plays, Will, a man whom has just moved into a house with his family. Neighbors and cops treat him weird. Then the twist is thrown in half way through the movie, so you are like, what is the rest of the film going to be about. That was done way too early.FINAL VERDICT: Sort of dull and not enough build up. The writer should have gone with the scary/thriller route.
The plot to this movie was awful. It was so cliché and predictable and boring. This is by far the worst musical that has been made lately. The only positive thing I can say is there were a couple of good songs in it. First, Christina Aguilera is not an actor. She even looks weird without her silly bleached blonde hair. Jack her love interest can't act. Stanley Tucci was the only decent actor. I like Cher, but her role as the older successful dancer trying to "mother" the up and comer while saving her club was dull.I can't believe the writers of this movie ever got it made. They must have known someone who knew someone who knew someone. It's that bad of a script.FINAL VERDICT: Don't waste your time.
This movie has nothing to do with 21 Jump Street, except to use the title. It's one of those wanna be comedies that uses cussing and perverted jokes to try to be funny. I don't find these type of movies that funny. And this movie was not funny. It was just ridiculous. Showing someone acting silly while taking a deadly drug is just a cheap way to try to get laughs. Sure it is cute when they are on drugs and the teacher's head turns into an ice cream cone, but that is just childish humor.The only redeeming scene is when Johnny Depp makes his cameo. Also Ice Cube lives up to his tough persona in this.FINAL VERDICT: what a waste
I like her in this too. She plays Jenna, a pie loving waitress whom just finds out she is pregnant. Only problem is the baby's daddy is her husband whom she can't stand and wants to leave. Her husband is very needy and abusive. He wants her to say she will love him more than the baby. She should have left after hearing that. She starts up in affair with her married doctor. He's the first guy that's treated her right and made her feel important. But, she still feels guilty by cheating. Jenna has 2 friends at the diner that add for some comedy, plus diner owner, Joe played by Andy Griffith. He's the voice of reason.At the end, we find out if she runs away or ends up with the doctor and if she can turn her pie making talents into a money making project.FINAL VERDICT: OK, it was entertaining enough.
great mystery, but the film goes down hill from there. The beginning is promising with a car wreck and a woman and her daughter being burned alive in front of a police officer, Edward. He is traumatized over this and is seen popping pills. A mysterious letter turns up from an old girlfriend asking for help in finding her missing daughter. So Ed travels to an island commune of mainly woman. They don't like outsiders. A lot of filler is with Ed shown looking around town for the girl. That made the movie too long. It finally gets a little better toward the end when we learn of the crazy rituals the woman perform and finally of the sinister plan in store for Edward.Overall, not a well written story and too long. FINAL VERDICT: I would skip this.
It's been a long time since we've seen Ben Stiller in such a crass and raunchy comedy. This movie is far more dirty than There's Something About Mary, which was terrific. This movie is no where near as good. It had a few laughs but the bad language, especially by Eddie's father, and the very raunchy sex scenes were a turn off. I wasn't expecting those 2 things in a Ben Stiller comedy. This movie is definitely not for 15 year olds. Another thing is this movie wants to make Eddie out as the good guy, but how can you when he's on his honeymoon and on the prowl for the first cute girl he meets, Miranda. He tells some big lies to his wife, Lila, instead of just saying he thinks the marriage was a mistake.This movie just didn't seem like it fit Ben Stiller. He just seems to nice to be playing a jerk and cussing a lot. Also the talk between him and his real father was quite "something".FINAL VERDICT: I didn't think it was that funny. Not really worth seeing.
then please don't make another one. The third sequel pales in comparison to the first two films. The first X-men was fantastic. The second was pretty good, but not as good, and the third is a real let down. Gone are the cool action scenes and story lines involving Wolverine and Rogue. And for a movie that was supposed to center around the Phoenix/Jean Grey, she did not have much involvement through out the film. At the big fight at the end of the film, she just stands there most of the time. It was cool to see some new mutants, but lack of character and plot development did not do a lot for the film. Mystique had a good role while it lasted. Magneto did some cool things with smashing cars and moving a bridge. But I still don't get why the X-men wanted to stop Magneto from destroying the cure. It seems they would not want the government to force cures on mutants. Plus, what happened to the boy who could cure at the end. We see Kittie leading him out of the prison and that's it.I'm very glad I didn't see this in the theater now. The plot was totally lacking and didn't make good sense. The movie was just no where near as entertaining and fun to watch.FINAL VERDICT: If you want to see the continuation of the X-men series, you may want to check this out. But ,I kind of wish I had not seen it now that I know it is no where near as good as the first films.
This movie was dull, mainly because it was so scientific, like something you would see on the Discovery channel. There isn't a lot of action and people just die with not much drama behind it. It seems like what might go on behind the scenes if something like this was to happen, but that doesn't mean it will make for a good movie. Also, just because you have all these big stars, it doesn't mean it's going to be that great. Plus, a movie about a deadly disease outbreak has been done quite a few times.FINAL VERDICT: Not really anything original, it is sort of slow. I don't recommend it.
Plus there is an out of place flashback that makes little sense and is just thrown in toward the ending of the film. The movie starts off with a bombing in Egypt and an American CIA officer is killed. The US government takes a man deboarding a plane in the us in custody because they have evidence of him associating with a terrorist group. In order to effectively interrogate him, they send him over to Egypt to use torture by the Egyptian secret police to extract info. CIA agent Douglas Freeman is asked to oversee the interrogation. He has interest since he was right by the bombing and his fellow agent was the one killed. A side plot involves the daughter of the chief of Egyptian police. She is involved with a guy whom is associating with an extremest group.Does the CIA have the right man? If the daughter's boyfriend using her to get to her father? Does Freeman do the right thing? The one real big negative with the film was the flashback. It just came out of no where and made the beginning of the film seem real confusing.FINAL VERDICT: It was OK, slow moving. I wouldn't go out of my way to see it.
This movie is set up as a ghost story, but the twist at the end, proves otherwise. Anna, is just released from a psych ward after the death of her mother in an explosion. We think mentally she is fine, but at the end of the film we find out she is a little off. Anna along with her sister Alex begin to suspect their mother's nurse, Rachel, of having something to do with their mother's death. Anna finds out Rachel is not her real name. Also, Anna's guy, turns up dead. Anna has visions of her dead mother. The twist at the end was pretty good, but predictable is you paid attention. I thought it was good.FINAL VERDICT: OK movie, it's not long. Worth a viewing on cable.
This was a pretty good slasher flick. The story follows the original closely. Characters have the same names, one dog dies and the other saves the day, the dad gets burned, etc...you get the idea. But the ending was much better. In the original, the dog attacks the last mutant, the dad gets the baby and it just ends, no real resolution. In this one, there is the added deserted town and it does have a final resolution. Also, there is no snakes like in the original.It has some gruesome deaths and disturbing scenes. Watching your dad burn to death is very bad and that really wasn't the worst part. One of the final fight scenes between Doug and the big mutant was good. It's like the mutant had the chance to finish him with the ax but gets too cocky. That was great. It was also very gross when Doug wakes up in the box filled with body parts.FINAL VERDICT: If you like gross horror films, then this is for you. I liked it, it's worth watching.
I would say the target audience for this movie was teen boys. It's another raunchy teen movie sort of like American Pie, but it doesn't have as many crude scenes.Ian, a teen virgin, decides to take his brother's car and go to Knoxville to meet a hot girl he's chatting with online. She says she'll go all the way. So, he starts his adventure with best friends, Lance and Felicia. Of course, things don't go as planned. They end up at an Amish community with car trouble. Ian has problems in a bathroom at a fair. They finally make it to Knoxville, but will Ian go through with it or will Felicia present a problem. Also, does his brother Rex get him for taking his car.I thought it was funny at times. There are some crude scenes like in old guy sitting in the trailer with his ##### hanging out. Seth Green as the Amish guy was the funniest part as he tries to get people to do the chores.FINAL VERDICT: Funny, worth watching.
I was shocked that any movie with Jennifer Lopez in it could actually be good. I usually think she's awful in movies. But, in this, she's OK. Not the best actor in it. That goes to Morgan Freeman, then Robert Redford, then Becca Gardner. This movie is about dealing with tragedy and family. Lopez plays Jean, an abused girlfriend who goes home to stay with her father-in-law, Einer. Einer still blames her for his son's death. He's bitter and has run everyone out of his life except Mitch, who continued to help on the ranch. He's shocked to find out he has a granddaughter. He agrees to let them stay but isn't too nice to either of them. Mitch is disabled after being mauled by a bear, another thing Einer feels guilty about because he was too drunk to help Mitch get a way from the bear.Jean gets a job and takes up with the sheriff. Einer eventually takes Griff under his wing and shows her the chores to do on the ranch. Jean's ex shows up and has a nasty confrontation with Einer.Bart the Bear even his a significant role. At the start, the bear gets caught. It's the same bear that mauled Mitch. But, Mitch doesn't want to see the bear caged and gets Eirner to set him free, which almost turns disastrous.The scenery is beautiful. It was a neat story, that seemed original. And the director didn't let J-LO ruin it.FINAL VERDICT: I recommend this. It's a good story, good acting, great landscape. Don't let the fact that it stars J-LO run you off. She was OK, and Freeman and Redford were great.
a mission to make the man machine his dad left him work. That's what this movie is about. It was pretty good, but I didn't think it deserved all the awards. The scenery wasn't that great. But Ben Kingsly deserved some acting nominations. I'm surprised he didn't get any.Hugo is an orphan whom keeps the clocks working at a train station in Paris. He has to escape the Station Inspector every day and he must steal food to survive. One day the toy shop keeper obtains Hugo's notebook and sees something familiar in it. With the help of Georges goddaughter, Hugo solves the mystery of whom Georges used to be and the connection to his father. It's something you wouldn't guess and Hugo gets a home.FINAL VERDICT: A cute kids movie, nothing great, but entertaining enough to catch it on TV.
a semi-intelligent plot and a couple of unusual deaths. This movie is in the same mold as a lot of other films, so if you like thrillers, you will like this. This killer is using high tech computer skills to set up a website called KILLWITHME.COM. The purpose of this site is the more people that log on, the faster the victim's death is. It's highly creative. Diane Lane plays FBI cybercrime agent Jennifer Marsh. She is in charge of the case and the killer has set up an untraceable website. Her fellow agent, Griffin, is seen in the beginning setting up dates from girls who answer a cyber listing. You know where that is heading with him sometime later in the film. Anyways, the killer's deaths include: letting someone bleed to death, having someone the center of high radiation light that cause the skin to boil, and sulfuic acid bath. As is the case of a lot of these films, the killer starts to stalk the cops investigating the case. The final scene with the killer and Marsh was quite good. It just proves one can get out of an impossible situation.The only that should not have been in this film was the death of the kitten. That was horrible, and I don't care that it wasn't real. It just gives people ideas. I bet PETA protested this film.FINAL VERDICT: I thought this movie was good. Liked everything except the kitten scene. Deaths were gruesome and cool special effects.
This movie really wasn't anything new but it was still entertaining to watch. After reading that some of the racist scenes in the film were made up, it makes me think lesser of the film. I know the director added the hotel room scene and bathroom scene for dramatic effect, but if it didn't happen, it should not have been included. Also, the fact the movie makes it seem like Coach Haskins came in his first year and won the championship, which wasn't true.Josh Lucas did a good job and was fun to watch. Since he was the central character, you needed a good performance to make the movie watchable. He did a good enough job.FINAL VERDICT: If you love sports, definitely see it. But if you just like inspirational stories, then it is worth watching too.
I thought this movie was OK even though most of the stunts are just absurd. But still it's fun to watch a girl kick !ss. I thought the first part where she gets into the jail and then carries out her assignment was really cool. It was mission impossible like, but that was the only cool part other than the shark tank. The ending just has her going in guns a blazing, no cool plan.The gist of the story is a young girl, Cataleya, sees her parents killed in Columbia. She escapes to America and gets her uncle to train her to be a killer and then seeks revenge on her parents' murderers. All is going well until a picture of her gets out, then she's got the FBI on her trail. But she won't rest till she gets her revenge.FINAL VERDICT: It had some good scenes but also ones that were really silly. It's OK if you want a pure popcorn action flick.
a rich, selfish, childish, drunk chooses love over money. That's the problem with this movie. Arthur has no redeemable qualities so why would we care if he ends up happy? Russell Brand plays an over the top character of himself as rich playboy Arthur. Arthur still has a nanny and spends money like it grows on trees and stays drunk most of the time. One day his mom is tired of the embarrassment and tells him he must marry, Susan, a business minded woman, or lose his money. At the same time, Aurthor meets Naomi and is smitten with her. But he's like that with most women he meets. And for some unknown reason he really loves this one? That wasn't believable. Nothing is shown as to why Naomi would stand out from all the other girls.Hudson is the only woman Arthur could ever really love, but other than that he's so selfish and annoying. No woman would put up with that.FINAL VERDICT: Don't waste your time.
This was a pretty bad movie. Any time you cast Marky Mark as a school teacher, you know you have some miscasting going on. Was Bruce Willis busy? The premise of the film was interesting. People in New York just sort of go into a trance and then kill themselves. What's causing it? The story focuses on Elliot, his wife, Alma, his friend Julian and his daughter Jess. They are trying to get out of the affected area. Their train stops in a small town and from that point, it's everyone for themselves. They gather with others and track across open fields. But is that the best strategy. One guy they get a ride with seems to think plants may be involved. And at the end, they seek shelter with a crazy old lady.FINAL VERDICT: Not enough suspense, badly written. Not scary. Miscast actors. Knight needs to go back to the drawing board and come up with a good idea like in his first films.
I like biographies when the subject is interesting. I found this movie to be boring; it's just about politics. There is no action, no drama, just politics arguing for gay rights. Sean Penn does a good acting job, but I wouldn't have given him the Oscar because his character isn't interesting enough. And I agree with those that say they wish the first few minutes did not give away the ending. I knew nothing about Milk before seeing this, but after the movie's intro, you know exactly how it's going to end.The only real drama is a suicide but the ramifications of that is over with in a few minutes.FINAL VERDICT: Over 2 hours of boring politics. I say skip it.
Since this movie did not do that good at the box office, I was expecting it to be bad. But was pleasantly surprised. It was OK; had some funny parts. Steve Martin was good as Clouseau; he had that ridiculous accent down. I love how he causes all these accidents to happen but never seems to notice. And when he does happen to notice, he doesn't do anything about. It's like oh well, that's too bad. And he sure was a bumbling detective just like in the original. Beyounce didn't do much for me. She just blended into the background and was not interesting nor funny.FINAL VERDICT: Worth checking out if you are looking for a comedy, but doesn't have the oomph that the Peter Sellers films had.
I was expecting it to be better. I thought this was fair, but there have been better movies made about the fbi, mob, and swindlers. And this movie clocks in at over 2 hours, so if you devote the time to see it, pay attention; otherwise, some of it won't make sense.You have Irving and Sydney scamming people out of money. The fbi come in and agent Richie gives them a deal. Help the fbi bust some dirty players, and they will get off scot free. So they get mixed up in politicians, bribing senators, and the mob. They are wearing wires to try to get money exchanging hands. Then you have Irving's wife thrown in for sex appeal since she just wears low cut tops. So I guess the big twist is, will Irving give up the mob and possibly risk retribution. Will the plan work with the fbi so he gets out of prison? The acting was OK, nothing great and the plot seemed stale. It's been done before.FINAL VERDICT: It's long, drawn out, I recommend it only if you are big fan of one of the actors in it.
especially if you are a wedding lover. I doubt many guys would consider this a good movie, but for all the ladies that like romance and weddings, then this film is for them.Tom and Hannah are best friends; they've known each other since college. When it comes to dating, Tom has a list of rules. He wants to have fun with the ladies but no commitment. He loves to talk with his friends about sleeping around while playing basketball. Hannah leaves to go to Scotland for several weeks for work. While away, Tom realizes he has feelings for her, and plans to tell her when she comes back. The problem is upon returning to New York, Hannah has the perfect fiancé in tow. He is a duke, rich, and crazy about Hannah. So of course, this throws Tom's plans out of order. Hannah announces she plans to wed in 2 weeks and asks Tom to be the made of honor. He accepts but plans to use the time he's spending with her to make her see Colin isn't for her. So, he gets advice from his friends to be the best moh ever, and there are some funny scenes with the other bridesmaids, one of whom he's slept with.They all go to Scotland for the wedding and there are times Hannah sees some things in Colin that she isn't crazy about. Will Tom get the courage to tell her what he feels before she gets hitched? It's probably easy to guess the answer.FINAL VERDICT: I thought this movie had some funny scenes and was entertaining. Patrick Dempsey is still cute and makes a great leading man for films like this. So, for all the girls, I recommend it.
Bruce Willis plays an aging, out of shape, alcoholic cop. He is asked to take a witness to court. What he doesn't know is the witness is going to testify against other cops including himself. Other cops start trying to kill him and the witness. So, if this witness is against cops, then why are the cops taking him to court. And why did they pick someone to take him to court that is not in on the plan. And of course the lead dirty cop is the ex-partner of Willis.Other questions, why doesn't Willis simply take a taxi to court? Why doesn't he call the DA and tell her not to talk to anyone and come pick them up or call the press to help him get to court? And I don't think cops would really be that awful by wanting to kill the witness, when all they have to do is keep him from getting to court.But, most of all, why do the cops think the jury would believe a career criminal who talks like he isn't very smart over a bunch of cops. Makes no sense.FINAL VERDICT: Not the worst movie out there, but still not that good. I don't recommend it.
Bronson plays a hit whose having anxiety attacks and feels burnt out. He meets Danny, a businessman, in Mexico City whom he tells about what he does for a living. He even shows him some of the tricks of the trade. He even tries to get Danny to help him and Danny says no and leaves and we are left to think that is the last contact they had. Danny goes home and we see Julian botch another job. He's is now a walking dead man and turns to Danny for help. The end shows how Julian solves his problem and we also learn him and Danny had other dealings in Mexico City.The main problem with the movie is it felt slow moving. Things could have developed faster.FINAL VERDICT: Catch it on cable if there is nothing else worthwhile on.
This movie was pretty good but could have been shorter. And I wouldn't recommend seeing any the next film in theaters because you know it will be like this one with no ending. You should wait till the third one comes out so you can watch it all back to back. I'm glad I didn't pay to see this because I don't like it when movies end like this, set up for the next one with no ending.Any ways, the special effects were good with trolls and goblins, but the rock giants served little purpose. Also, the beginning could have been sped up when they were in Bilbo's house waiting to start the adventure. I wonder why Gandalf couldn't conger a spell when they were stuck in the burning tree, how come he never uses more magic. My favorite part was Bilbo and Gollum during the riddle challenge.FINAL VERDICT: Worth watching, but I would wait till all 3 films are out so you don't get stuck with no ending.
is all that great. I didn't find much funny about the movie. Liv and Emma are 2 best friends that end up with their dream wedding at the plaza scheduled on the same date. Even though they are best friends, neither will give up the date, so this leads to war between the two. Emma sends Liv chocolates to try to fatten her up and she messes with her hair color. Liv changes Emma's spray on tan to orange and shows a mean video of Emma during Emma's wedding. Then after all these mean "pranks", Emma decides that she really doesn't want to marry her guy. This subplot almost seems to come up out of no where.Candance Bergin plays the wedding planner. But the best character was Deb, played by Kristen Johnson. She uses spineless Emma to get her to basically do everything.FINAL VERDICT: The concept sounds better than how the film turned out. I don't recommend it.
but this isn't the worst movie ever. Given the negativity associated with this movie, I was expecting something terrible, but it wasn't that bad. The special effects were OK, but of course the animals looked fake and the story was OK. Whenever Jaden Smith talked, it was pretty bad; he can't act. Even Will Smith was awful while talking, he's not made to play a stern, no nonsense guy.The plot is soldiers in training are going to another planet to train to kill Ursas, alien monsters. They crash land on earth with only a father and son surviving, the dad happens to be a general and can ghost, meaning he has no fear of the Ursa. He's too hurt so the kid must retrieve the emergency beacon. What I don't get is why are there giant eagles and crazy baboons on earth now. That was silly. As mentioned, Jaden Smith is not believable as any character and it is easy to predict what will happen.FINAL VERDICT: Not horrible, not what I call good, just so-so. This would be OK for background noise while you're doing something else.
if that sounds great to you, then check this film out. But I thought this was terrible. All 3 main characters in this are terrible to one another and claim to be best friends. Dex and Darcy are to be married; however, Rachel was the first to meet Dex in law school. She basically let Darcy have him by not being proactive. So, just weeks before the wedding, Rachel and Dex sleep together and the next you know, they say they love each other, but Dex doesn't want to leave Darcy. And they continue the affair. Rachel is supposed to be the good one here, but how can you even like her with what she is doing behind her best friends back. Then at the end to make it "OK" for Rachel to be with Dex, Darcy announces she's pregnant by some other guy. So lame.BTW: Kate Hudson looks awful in this. They must have run out of budget for all the airbrushing for her.FINAL VERDICT: Do not watch this.
then the second half of this movie is hard to follow. I got the first part with the Spanish Inquistion, but the film skipped many years forward with the French ruling Spain. The movie does little to fill you in on what happened, and I don't remember much about it. So, the movie gets confusing then. The movie begins when Ines, daughter of a rich merchant, is accused of Judiasm by the church, specifically Father Lorenzo. She is put to the Question and forced to confess. Even her family's wealth can not buy her out of prison. Her father forces Lorenzo to sign a confession saying he is the offspring of a chimp, in hopes of getting Ines released. All it does is give a reason for the church to condemn Lorenzo, who runs off to France.Then, the movie skips many years, and the French Revolution is in full force. Ines is released from prison. It was very good make up work to make Natalie Portman look that tore up. She finds her family dead and seeks Goya for her help. She tells him she had a child in prison. Goya sets up a meeting between her and Lorenzo, whom is now with the French and in power. He is the father. Goya sees the daughter and tells Lorenzo, whom decides it's best to send her off to America, so no one will find out. But before his plans get carried out, the British join the Spainish, and Spain reclaims power and he is now the persecuted. That part is not well told in the film. It's like the film shows this to happen in a day.FINAL VERDICT: The movie is good until it skips many years in time after the Inquistion, then the movie expects you to understand what is going on. It just got too confusing to me then.
I'm guessing this movie is purely fiction and not based on any facts. It's just the conspiracy theory a lot of people believe concerning W's administration. It's the lefty's version of the war.I thought the movie was pretty good and entertaining. I had never heard of it before watching it on cable. Matt Damon plays Miller, head of a military unit. He is questioning the fact that they are sent on missions to find WMD, yet always come up empty. He thinks they are getting bad intel and enlists the help of reporters. From talking to an Iraqi prisoner he helped capture, he finds out whom Magellen is. Magellen is the code name for the Iraqi source for WMD. What he finds leads to even bigger government conspiracies. So he is trying to prove what he knows before the big government guys, like Greg Kinnear, can cover it up and silence people.I thought the last part with the chase through the city was filmed well. It made sense, was suspenseful, and I think it had the right ending. You know most of the locals did not like the Iraqi military.FINAL VERDICT: a movie worth checking out.
This was an excellent kid film that can be enjoyed by adults also. It's like Mary Poppins in that a nanny comes to help out a family and make them closer. The few special effects worked perfectly because they were not over-the-top. The movie was amusing and entertaining. It's about a nanny who uses magic to settle down some unruly children while helping them bond with their father. The father must also marry to please the aunt in order to continue to receive monetary support. They have a young, attractive maid. I wonder where she could fit into all this. Then there is a funny red head cook and a possible evil step-mother. Angela Lansbury plays the near-sighted Aunt perfectly. Emma Thompson also shows her acting skills.FINAL VERDICT: Good, kids will like it as well as adults.
then you probably shouldn't watch this because you'll think it's boring. I like cooking, so I thought this was OK. It's two different stories. One is of Julia Child as she learns to cook after 40 and her writing her cookbook for America. The other takes place in 2002 about a woman named, Julie, whom decides to start a blog. She plans to make all the recipes in Julia Child's book within a year. Soon, her blog takes off and she gets a lot of followers. People send her food and magazines want to do stories.I know nothing about the real Julia Child, but apparently everyone says Meryl Streep did a spot on with the annoying voice and mannerisms. I'll take there word for it. I wouldn't want to see a whole movie about Child because that voice drives one crazy.FINAL VERDICT: If you like to cook, worth a viewing.
then you'll like this. Vince Vaughn and Owen Wilson are back with that same back and forth talking, dry humor. This time they are interns at Google, competing for a job. They are slick talking salesmen that need a new gig. So they team up with some smart teens and form a team competing for the google jobs. Chetty is their no-nonsense boss that acts like he thinks they are complete failures, but really thinks they got something no one else has. Then there is their competition that thinks he's better than everyone and has an English accent. He was good to poke fun at.FINAL VERDICT: Sort of funny, I'm sure if you like Vaughn or Wilson, you should check it out.
What I liked most about the Thing was how you couldn't trust anyone else. Any person could have been the thing, and I think Carpenter's movie showed this better than this new one. BTW, this version is actually a prequel to Carpenter's movie. Carpenter's version was just more suspenseful and I loved how it ended with 2 people surviving not knowing if one of them was the thing or not. The ending here was not as good and the final chase with the alien where its ship was was more of a generic slasher movie chase scene.Also I didn't like how it just kept duplication itself again and again, if it could do that, why not just take over everyone before revealing itself. There was only one creature found in the ice.FINAL VERDICT: It still has the same creepy music, and it was a decent movie, just not as good as the first one.
This movie was not very good and should have been much shorter. All the "artsey scenes" where Susie is in the afterlife was just silly and added nothing to the story. I didn't like it. Why not just have her observing her family trying to find her killer instead of having her wonder through fields, lakes, snow,etc... Also, she is supposed to be observing what her death is doing to her family. And why not have the girl, Ruth, whom can feel and "see" Susie's ghostly presence do something in the film. It never even shows her talking to Susie's sister or family telling them what she felt the night Susie went missing. And the discovery of the killer was rather uneventful. I mean her sister doesn't even run in the house yelling call the police. And Susie's family never have closer because they don't find the body nor no what happened to the killer. But "we " get to see the killer's fate.FINAL VERDICT: Not worth watching.
This Godzilla remake wasn't that good. The main problem was the poor script and the personal relationships. The only 2 interesting people were the scientists, Joe and his wife, and neither last very long. The main character, Ford, was poorly written and acted and his wife, played by Elizabeth Olsen, was such a lame character. Even their kid was used poorly and gave nothing to the story.As already mentioned, the darkness of the film was too much and Godzilla did not get enough screen time. I thought the special effects were good, but Godzilla should have been shown in longer than 90 second clips. Perhaps the MUTOs were the best part of the movie.FINAL VERDICT: Watch at your own risk. There isn't enough monster action and the characters are so bad.
is what this movie is about. Matthew McConaughey is well suited to play the role of Mick, a slick defense lawyer whom doesn't seem to mind getting guilty people off. He's presented a new case involving rich, preppy, guy named Louis. Louis is accused of beating a prostitute, using a knife, and nearly killing her. He claims it's a set up and she's after a lawsuit to get money from him. Mick, for the most part believes his story, until he starts realizing Louis is lying about things. He puts 2 and 2 together and realizes Louis picked him as his lawyer for a purpose. It seems Mick defended a man that pleaded guilty to a crime Louis committed. So Mick realizes Louis is a bad man and must do what is right without compromising the attorney/client privilege.FINAL VERDICT: A pretty good story that makes sense. Worth a viewing.
This was just your generic not very good adventure movie It's probably one of Will Ferrell's worst roles. The only part I liked was the special effects of the t-rex. It looked fairly realistic. But having the t-rex understand what Dr. Marshall was saying was silly. Like he kept saying the dinosaur has a brain the size of a walnut, then later the t-rex gives him this huge nut. And I still don't get the caveman companion. When they first see him, it's like he's in ancient Egypt, then they fall through a hole in the sand and land on bones and see the t-rex in a few minutes.With a script like this, this movie just should not have been made.FINAL VERDICT: will cause brain cell damage
I actually liked this movie. Just from the title, you expect some movie about a demon child, but there was more to it. Married couple, John and Kate, decide to adopt a girl after loosing a child. They already have 2 other kids, Daniel and deaf Max. They adopt, Esther, a Russian orphan whom is very talented and articulate. She loves to draw and paint and wear ribbons around her wrists and neck. We learn why later in the movie.Soon, Esther starts causing problems between Kate and John and she always seems to be present around accidents. The nun from the orphanage tells Kate about Esther's past being linked to many accidents and her last family dying in a fire. Soon, Esther starts being really evil and manipulating Max. Evan after trying to burn Daniel alive, John still gives her the benefit of the doubt, but Kate is on to her and starts investigating Esther's past from Russia. That's when she finds out the very surprising twist, that is just creepy. Especially, when Esther is in black with all the heavy make up, you knew something was up.FINAL VERDICT: It had some good scares, I recommend it.
This movie was a little more graphic than I expected and that's a good thing. However, I had lots of questions throughout. Never mind the fact that in Alaska when the northern most parts have total darkness in winter, it is a gradual thing. They don't have 8 hours of sunlight one day and complete darkness the next, which is how this movie seems to depict it. The concept is a good one. A group of foreign vampires, perhaps Russian since they arrive by boat, send a human to the town of Barrow to destroy all phones and lines of communication as well as sabotage the only helicopter and others forms of transportation, such as sled dogs. The whole dog thing was so brutal and I did not want to see that.Then when the town's 30 days of darkness begins, the vamps begin attacking local citizens to feed. There are lots of closeups of blood squirting out of sliced throats, etc... Next problem I have is that Josh Harnett isn't exactly what you would think a sheriff of some isolated Alaskan town would look like. And once darkness comes and the power is cut, how come there seems to be so much light when the towns people are running around outside. When it's snowing, there would be no light from the stars or moon, so why did it look they had tons of light set up outside.Next issue, the vamps go from house to house tearing it apart looking for survivors. Why do they never do this to any of the buildings the survivors are hiding in. Why do they allow these humans to live for days on end instead of finding them hiding in houses. Also, when the survives stupidly go running around the town, why are they never spotted by the vamp lookouts on the roofs. Also, what was the point of running to the grandma's house for the UV lights. The sheriff proves it does hurt the vamps, but he only uses it on one before they cut the power. Was that worth risking his life for?As for the ending, I liked it. I never expected the sheriff to come up with that solution to save the day so to speak.FINAL VERDICT: If you like a good horror movie with lots of blood and gore, then watch this.
To me, this movie didn't really have a plot that mattered. A guy goes back home to Kentucky to bring back his father's body. His dad died from a sudden heart attack. Being from the west coast, he and his mom want to cremate the body while all the relatives want a proper burial. On the plane Drew meets Claire a flight attendant whom seems interested in him. They talk a lot and even drive to meet each other. All the while the movie shows Drew with his relatives that he doesn't seem to be that close to. Finally his mom comes to town to give an eulogy. And Drew leaves to drive home to Oregan and follows a map given to him by Claire. He follows her notes, which lead him back to her.FINAL VERDICT: I didn't see much point in this film. It was not entertaining and was too long. The movie needed more of a plot.
I'm not really sure what the point of this movie was. It seemed like another George Clooney satiric movie except this one wasn't that good. It's about this reporter, Bob, whom goes to the middle east to report after his wife leaves him. There he meets Lyn, whom is involved with a secret government project where they use their minds to control things. Lyn calls himself a jedi and says Bob must have some in him too since he sketched a picture of the jedi eye. The middle of the film is them two getting captured, escaping, and traveling across the desert. Then the ending had something to do with spiking the water with LSD and letting all the goats and prisoners escape.The film was not interesting enough to keep your attention and keep up with what's going on.FINAL VERDICT: There are much better Clooney movies than this. Skip it.
I have to admit this movie had me LOL a lot. It's so wrong but yet so funny. Before even coming to America Borat describes the "running of the Jew" in his home town. We see these ridiculous goblin looking costumes. You have to admit that was funny; it's not right, but it is funny. Borat comes to America and basically offends everyone. He says women's brains are small, he insults the national anthem. He brings a hooker as a date in a conservative southern home. He even hangs with some homeys in Atlanta. It was pretty good when he tries to check into that hotel in Atlanta. The guy immediately goes gets security.Last of all, the naked wrestling. Need I say more, or should I say "see" more.FINAL VERDICT: This is a comedy, satire, it's not meant to be mean spirited. Enjoy it for what it is.
This movie was not that great, it was OK for what it was. It's about a seemingly nice guy whom comes from a rich family falling for a girl whom comes from a lesser background. They get married and he seems great. But suddenly he starts acting weird and violent. He starts beating his wife and getting into arguments and being distant. She consults a lawyer and is told his money is in trusts and she would not be able to get much in a divorce. So she sticks around and just disappears. The police never find a body and the husband never gets charged. He goes to Texas and for some unknown reason likes to dress like a woman. I didn't get that part. He kills some guy there, but gets convicted of a lesser charge, so never spends much time in jail.FINAL VERDICT: Slow moving, I don't recommend it.
that bad Lindsay Lohan film (I know who killed me) and Saw. It started off good, but along the way the story just got too absurd and silly to be believable. As in the Lohan movie, a girl, Jennifer, is kidnapped and held prisoner in a cellar and is subjected to torture. Like in Saw, the killer uses tactics such as giving Jen the choice of shooting her dog or being shot herself. He plays games with her like showing her a video of a girl getting acid poured on her face and then pouring something on hers. He traps her in a box filling up with sand. Jen find another person, Gary, whom seems to be held hostage too. They quickly become very close and even some how saves her from the box filling with sand. Then where it really starts to become unbelievable is when Jen decides to go ahead and sleep with Gary, besides the fact they are being drugged and tortured.All along I thought something was up with Gary and it was. Is Gary really a savior or a monster? FINAL VERDICT: A very uncreative film. It's been done so many times and better. And the actors were bad. They could have had at least some good gore scenes but even those are missing. I only recommend it if you think you have to see very serial killer film out there.
then you probably won't like this movie. I didn't think it was very good. It was boring and just not that funny. Is it really funny that a girl can't control her shopping habit and is up to her eyeballs in debt? There are too many people living like that. She gets a job as a columnist giving financial advice. Her stories sound silly, but everyone proclaims how they love them and her column really takes off. Her boss, Luke, takes her to Miami and of course she falls for him. Eventually, her debt is outed, but figures a way out of it, by selling all her stuff. She should have done that a long time ago.FINAL VERDICT: Not that funny, I wouldn't recommend it.
This movie was OK, but nothing new. The one thing I can't stand about these type of movies, and it is very evident here, is how the criminal comes close to getting caught so many times, but always has a genies plan to get away with the crime.Here, Chris, is an ex smuggler whom must get back in the game to save his brother-in-law from a gangster that he owes drugs. So Chris and some former pals go to Panama on a ship and plan to smuggle counterfeit bills. Meanwhile, he leaves friend, Sebastian, to look out for his wife and kids. But, it doesn't take long to see Sebastian is in over his head.In Panama, the plan goes off the grid, but some how they always find a way. And at the end, we find out a tarp will make all their dreams come true.FINAL VERDICT: Entertaining, just not a new idea. If you like heist films, check this out.
This was one of the better war movies I've seen. The characters were set up; we learned a little back ground about them. The raid was explained, so we(the viewer) knew what was going to happen. And once the action took place, you could tell who was who since we got to know the soldiers in the beginning. The fighting was violent, but there wasn't many close ups of the actually killings. Not like the violence in Saving Private Ryan or We Were Soldiers.I don't understand why this film didn't do better at the box office. I blame it on the marketing of this film, plus, it was released like a low budget independent film, which it really wasn't. I didn't see it until now, but I wanted to watch it at the theater. I was unable to go the first couple of weeks it was out, and by the time I was ready to see it, I couldn't find it at any local theaters. I guess because it didn't have a big name star attached it got buried in the mass of movies released.Too bad it wasn't given more credit and advertising because it probably was the best movie released last summer.FINAL VERDICT: Compelling, entertaining, informative war story. One of the best films based on the military action in the Pacific.
This action film is clearly written for laughs and complete unbelievability. I like action films that are at least some what realistic. The stunts in this are just to over the top. Mr. Smith sees a woman being chased by people with guns. He goes to her aid, but she dies right after giving birth. There's nothing like midwifing during a gun fight. So Smith takes the baby, finds a hooker who can provide a baby a meal, and gets drawn into the mystery as to who and why someone wants the baby dead. And when we find out the answer to this, it is just as over the top as the stunts.This movie also has lots of violence and blood. And one really action packed love scene.FINAL VERDICT: If you thought Die Hard movies were tame, and you want real action, then this is right up your alley. But, it's not worth watching if you like movies that at least seem possible.
watching it on cable. And now I know why. It's not very good. The movie was too long. Battle scenes were not good and very few of them for a war movie. Too many subtitles to read. Most war movies at least look good visual, but not this one. Bad scenery. Also the story about the young Italian boy just didn't go any where. And why was Shane from the Shield cussing in this. I guess that's all the white captain was good for.Spike Lee hasn't had a hit in years. After seeing this, it's easy to guess why. It just wasn't a very good script. Lee should try some kind of documentary next time.FINAL VERDICT: It's too long to even bother watching.
but still entertaining enough. The story revolves around a husband and wife whom live together but emotionally far apart. Walter, a microbiologist, marries Kittie, a rich socialite. They move overseas where Walter finds out she is having an affair. Instead of divorcing, he moves to a section of China facing a cholera epidemic. Walter is studying the disease and trying to eliminate its spreading while Kitty sits at home. Over time, Kitty becomes interested in Walter's work and goes to help the nuns watch the kids. She gradually falls in love with him while he is learning to forgive her. This is not a Disney movie, so no happy endings. Living in a cholera epidemic: it's easy to guess what will happen.I thought the acting was good. I really liked Ed Norton in this. He had a very good British accent. The scenery is very pretty also. It could have been a little shorter.FINAL VERDICT: If you are a fan of Norton or Watts, this is worth checking out.
I didn't think the plot to this film was anything great, plus it was just weird. This girl, Christine, works at a bank and she has to deny an extension to this old woman on her house. Well, the old woman is some kind of witch. She attacks the girl in her car and pulls a button off her jacket and curses it. The rest of the film Christine has scary visions mostly involving the old woman. The woman bites her, vomits on her, and is even in her piece of cake. The whole curse just didn't make a lot of sense to me.This movie just had some moments in it to make you jump but it wasn't scary nor bloody. Gross if anything.FINAL VERDICT: If you want to check out a recent creepy movie, I would suggest Orphan. This isn't worth your time.
that is the question this movie tries to answer. The film is about married couple, George and Linda, whom must leave New York City after George loses his job. My favorite part wasn't the hippies, it was when George and Linda go to George's brother's house. The brother says the most inappropriate things and his wife is a lonely, depressed woman and they have a foul mouthed kid. Needless to say, they can't stand to be there long and go back to the hippie place in which they had spent the night at before arriving at the brother's. There they live without doors, smoke pot, have free love. Some of it was funny, but there are much better comedies out there. And of course George and Linda must find each other at the end.FINAL VERDICT: It was OK; worth a view if you want some raunchy humor
Once again, British actor, Simon Pegg, is back with an off the wall comedy. He is joined by a fellow Britt. The two are in the US for the comic con in San Diego. Afterwards, they rent a RV and go on a tour of the southwest visiting UFO sites. They pick up an alien and are chased by the FBI. They also encounter a super Christain woman played by Kriten Wiig and change her mind about her beliefs with the alien. That part was very questionable as it was somewhat disrespectful. But overall, the movie has its funny moments and was some what entertaining.FINAL VERDICT: Aimed for adults. It's OK if you want to see something with this type of adult humor.
This movie basically combines everything you can think of from every popular 80s action movie, including all the action stars and cheesy lines. This movie was written more like a comedy than action movie. It's definitely not to be taken seriously. Sly Stallion is the leader and he meets with Bruce Willis and Arnold Swartz. about a new mission. He takes the mission over Arnold, whom I think mentioned something about him being in the jungle(Rambo, get it). They go to this island whom has been overtaken by an evil general and his American drug-lord. So, Sly must save the general's daughter, put an end to the general, and then give the drug-lord what he deserves. And he gets help from all the notables along the way, mainly Jason Staham and Jet Li. And even Mickey Rourke gets thrown as the old guy whom can get all the 20 year olds.FINAL VERDICT: It's some what funny and entertaining enough to check out.
Bruce Willis does another cop movie, but unfortunately, this one was terrible. Nothing was funny about it. I don't like movies that try to use cuss words to be funny; it just doesn't work. Tracey Morgan overacts way too much, he just is annoying.Willis plays Jimmy, a cop whom needs to sell a baseball card to pay for his daughter's wedding. He goes to sell it and the store is robbed and the robbers take his card. So, Jimmy and his partner Paul, use their police contacts to track down the robber, only to learn he traded the card for drugs. So, now they are after this Mexican drug dealer and trying to make a deal for the card, but of course, you can't trust a drug dealer. So, the film is full of filler with Jimmy and Paul arguing, Paul thinking his wife is cheating, and basically trying to use dialog like Quention Taritino, except it doesn't work and no where near as good as Taritino films.FINAL VERDICT: This has to be one of the worst films of the year.
but I just wish the movie would have stayed a light hearted comedy and not included all the racial stuff. It made the movie sound serious, but it was supposed to be fun, so I think it would have been better with the protesting and racial story line left out. New comer Nikki Blonsky was good in her part; she can dance good. And surprisingly, John Travolta was funny playing a very large woman. The make up department deserves props for his female transformation.The songs in the film were pretty good, but certainly not the best musical I've seen. None of them were catchy enough to remember how they went after seeing the film. Michelle Pfeiffer is back playing the villain, an obsessed mom who wants her daughter, Amber, to win Miss Hairspray contest. But Amber, just can't dance as well as Tracey. The Miss Hairspray contest was entertaining.FINAL VERDICT: If you like songs in films, then you'll like this.
and this sequel lacked the cool traps set up and didn't have as much gore. In my opinion, this is by far the worst of the Saw sequels. I thought the others were half descent and at least had some good blood and gore shots. I didn't think this movie even had that. And it just ends with little conclusion and was a very short film at 90 minutes. There was plenty of time to add more to the plot. And what did those 5 people have to do with anything. They just show up as part of jigsaw's game. It was like the writers couldn't even come up with a single idea as to why have those people thrown in.FINAL VERDICT: I think any other sequels just need to go direct to video. This idea is just too played out.
I thought this was one of the worst movies of the year. It was terrible. The plot made little sense and was so unbelievable. In the movie, Jerry, for some reason I never understood, gets electrocuted and charged. The electricity stays in his body and he goes to see his friend Mike, whom is working at the video store. The charges in his body erase all of the video tapes. Now, Mike has a problem. Loyal customers want to rent tapes, but the tapes are blank. What is one to do? Mike and Jerry decide to make their own films and fool the customers into thinking they are the real version. Forget the fact the remakes are 20 minutes long and look more amateurish than a 1st grade play. They recruit Alma to play the female roles in their films. To their surprise the remakes become popular and people begin lining up to rent them.BTW: There is even a lame joke of electrically charged urine when Jerry peas in the street. It was just too stupid.FINAL VERDICT: The whole concept that avid movie watchers would think these "remakes" were any good goes beyond silly. Do not watch this.
or you will be totally lost while watching this movie. It's a pretty good spy/political film, but it did get a little confusing at times.Leo plays, Ferris, a CIA agent in the middle East. He gets sent to Amman in search of a terrorist leader, Al-Saleem. In order to draw Al-Saleem out, Ferris uses a businessman and frames him for a bombing. This works and Ferris is also working with Jordan intelligence and neither side trusts each other much.Russell Crowe plays Ferris's boss and is mainly shown talking on the phone. He isn't truthful with the Joradian police about operations. Ferris is seeing this nurse that goes missing. He thinks Al-Saleem took her so he offers himself in exchange. But really the Jordian police are doing more than he knows.The ending is good with Ferris captured and in front of the video camera, knowing what is coming next.FINAL VERDICT: Only for those that like political films. Not much action and I wouldn't call this a thriller more of a drama. Crowe doesn't have a good role and I thought was wasted. Leo is good though.
This movie had something different, unique, which in my book, always makes it better than a lot of other movies out there. Christina Ricci plays Rae, the town tramp, whom suffered from childhood abuse. Sam Jackson is Lazarus, a blues player whom finds Rae nearly dead along the side of the road. He sees this as a chance to change Rae's life by putting her though a religious suffering. He finds out about her being such a tramp and wants to change her ways. He comes up with the idea of chaining her to the radiator in his house and caring for her and trying to give her self esteem. He treats her cough and buys her some decent dresses. He memorizes her with his blues playing, and the songs Laz plays in the film are all very good. Rae's boyfriend, Ronnie, returns home after deciding not to go through with enlisting in the marines. And things work out for them in the end. As one complaint I have, the ending is just a little to perfect for both of them considering how messed up emotionally each of them are. I just didn't see a happy little ending for them.FINAL VERDICT: Unique story, interesting film. I recommend checking it out, but for adults only; it does have lots of bad language.
This movie is about a guy, Peter, that is getting married, but he doesn't have any guy friends. His girl, Zooey, thinks he needs to meet some new guys. So he starts doing that and meets Sydney, a fun guy that he gets along with. Before long Peter is hanging out with Sydney all the time and it becomes apparent that Sydney doesn't have a lot of friends to hang out with because they all have relationships and he is still single. So by the end of the film, Peter thinks he has to "break up" with Sydney, but Zooey makes it right in the end at their wedding.A lot of the jokes were dirty, it was sort of funny, but not super funny. I'm sure a lot of 20 year olds would like this, but it doesn't have broad appeal.Paul Rudd was good. He needs to star in more films.FINAL VERDICT: If you like American Pie type movies, then you may like this. It was OK.
This movie is geared for a specific audience of pre-teen girls, and if you are not in that target group, this movie is quite stupid. I didn't find it funny. Martin Lawerence plays an overprotective father whose daughter is going to college. He wants her to go to school close to home, but she wants to go to Georgetown. They decide to take a road trip to Georgetown for her interview. Her young brother and his pet pig hitch a ride too, and they must overcome several mishaps to get to Georgetown in time for the interview. From skydiving to a pig on caffeine; it was just silly.FINAL VERDICT: A terrible Disney film.
Rush Hour 3 follows the exact same formula as the first two films. Policeman Carter teams up with Inspector Lee to solve a big international crime case while Carter has a lot of wise cracks to add. In this film, the plot actually made more sense than I thought it would. But it seems Jackie Chen can not do as many stunts now that he's older. The scenes written for humor were rather silly, as though written by a 10 year old. I mean who stops to sing Kung Fu Fighting after knocking out a bunch of guys with the girl still in peril. The wanna be spy cab driver was about the best thing for the whole film. The nun interpretation scene was good too. The girl who played Genevieve needs to be the next Bond girl. She had a very unique look.FINAL VERDICT: Nothing to rush out and see.
I didn't think Scarlett Johansson was that great in this, as the nanny, Annie. Laura Linney played the most entertaining character, Mrs. X. Mrs. X is an upper east side rich housewife, whom is more concerned with impressing her friends and trying to hold onto her husband, than with raising her young son. That is where the nanny comes into play. She meets Annie in the park after she saves the son, Grayer. Annie accepts the job but soon learns it is a lot more difficult with all of Mrs. X's rules. She sees that the X's marriage isn't that great and that Grayer is neglected. Once Mrs. X sees that Annie sees all her flaws she wants to get rid of her. Annie doesn't care about staying for her but for Grayer. Mrs. X does send Annie a letter to try to make things right. And that's about all that happens, which is why it wasn't that great of a film.FINAL VERDICT: It was just so-so. I really don't recommend it though, there just wasn't a lot to the plot.
I thought this movie was pretty good and suspenseful. I never heard of it before seeing it on cable. There aren't any famous names, which is a plus. A lot of these teen movies now days have a sucky plot with a couple of famous faces. I'd rather have a better story. Here some teens at a private school invent a story about a killer named the Wolf. They send the story out in an email to the whole school just to start rumors. Well the newest boy, Owen, starts getting IMs from someone using the name Wolf. He thinks his friends are just playing around. But he soon starts to wonder if they are real. And on the night of Halloween, when it's just him and his friends at school, he thinks the story they invented is coming true.You need to watch it to find out if the Wolf really exists. And this film goes to show you that a movie doesn't need a lot of blood and swearing to be good. It just needs suspense, which this had.FINAL VERDICT: A great choice for a thriller.
This film was a little better than New Moon, but that isn't saying much. It's still rather boring and is just silly. What is it with Victoria running crazy fast through the woods? I mean that makes her really bad. Why can the guy vampire get into Bella's house to look around but she can't. And why didn't he just wait in the house for Bella. And Kristen Stewart just looks silly with these ridiculous facial expressions, do I choose a vampire or werewolf. You would think a vampire army would be a little exciting, but I sure didn't think so. The werewolf CGI is really bad.FINAL VERDICT: Only watch it if you can see it for free.
creepier and have more suspense. Also, I'm pretty sure I remember the original as being more violent and scary. This remake was dumbed won to get a pg-13 rating. I think everyone knows the plot of the movie. Single mom, Susan, meets dream guy, David, whom isn't really as nice as he appears to be. In fact, he's psychotic and likes to kill his families when they start catching on to the fact he isn't whom he says he is.So, there's the demise of the cat lady, Susan's ex hubby, and Susan's snoopy friend that got David a job and finds it odd he won't give any personal info. The film could have made David a little more creepy when dealing with the 2 youngest kids and Michael's girlfriend, Kelly.The whole film was just too tame.FINAL VERDICT: I would suggest watching the original for a better film and more suspense.
it felt like a CBS Sunday night movie. Johnny Cash is interesting, but not a whole lot happens besides his drug/alcohol addiction. It just seemed like one of those Hallmark TV movies. I thought Phoenix did a better acting job than Reese. Reese was good but I don't think she deserved all the acting awards. The role didn't have an oomph to it. It didn't require a lot of emotions. But she can sing the country well. But her really southern accent was a little too thick and annoying. It sounded fake.FINAL VERDICT: Good, but not best picture material. Best part was the music.
I didn't see this at theaters because I thought this was just another special effects movie with a really poor story. After finally seeing it on cable, it was actually pretty good. The special effects are really good like everyone says; and I liked the story also. But I do think John Cusack was miscast as the action hero because when was the last time he played one. And also Amanda Peet is not a big enough star for the leading female role.Just get over the fact that the hero, Jackson Curtis, accomplishes some impossible feats and just enjoy it. Sure can one really believe Jackson driving a limo and old RV over cracks in the earth and jumping huge holes. Or flying a plane though a huge volcano ash cloud or missing all those firey rocks spit out of the volcano. At least the Russian guy Yuri got what he deserved but why Tamara? FINAL VERDICT: Check this out.
I was expecting to laugh a lot and didn't laugh once. This movie was not that funny, I don't get why it got so much press as being the funniest movie of the year. A bunch of F words, don't make a movie funny. Melissa Mccarthy had the best role, but the jokes just didn't make me laugh. Kristen Wiig's Annie character was just mean and ugly to her friends. Plus, the way she treats the guy who likes her like crap, but he still wants her at the end. I don't buy it. Different scenes seemed like SNL sketches, like Annie doped up on the plane or Annie breaking all kinds of traffic laws trying to get her guy's attention.FINAL VERDICT: Over-hyped, I didn't think it's worth seeing.
This movie was pretty good, but it did have some slow moments and the plot dragged, especially in the beginning. Nick gets beat up by Annie and her gang over something he didn't really do. They think he is dead but really isn't. They hide his body. Now Nick, is not in the land of the living nor the dead, somewhere in between. He can walk around the real world, however he can't be heard or seen. It's up to him to get someone to find his body and save his life. He trails his attacker, Annie; and discovers that some how she can feel his presence and he even hear him sometimes. This leads Annie to find out where the body was moved to and help Nick even if it means her own life.One part that I didn't buy is how could a petite, pretty girl be the leader of some bad boy gang. Not believable. Why would the other guys take orders from her. Surely they are not scared of her. If you are going to have a girl be the villain, she should be 6 ft and weigh 200 pounds with spiked pink hair and a nose ring.And the guy who played Nick was good looking, actually too good looking because he had the hair style of a GQ model. He didn't look like some average high schooler. Also, I really didn't buy the fact just because he saw some of Annie's sad homelife, he has a soft spot for her. I mean, she tried to kill him.FINAL VERDICT: Worth watching, has some suspense, but should have been a little shorter.
its target audience is now 10 years older and the majority aren't into raunchy teen comedies any more. And to like this, you need to have seen the original and how many 17 year olds of today have seen that. But besides the fact that this sequel is way too late, it still uses a lot of the same jokes. The hot chick next door that shows some skin. Stifler still talking like he's in high school. The gross out pranks. And of course Jim and the sock in the beginning. Oz is back and a celebrity dance off contestant and has this hilarious scene with the neighbor's wife whose a big fan.FINAL VERDICT: It is good for what it is, if you want to laugh at gross stuff, check it out.
Zombie's first remake was a little different by having a background story of a young Michael Myers and how he turned into a killer. This movie was just your typical slasher film; plus it was annoying as to how many dream sequences there were. The film picks up were the last one left off. Somehow a dead Michael Myers escapes a crashed coroner van and brutally kills the van's passenger. A year later and it's almost Halloween again. Michael has visions of his mother, a white horse, and his younger self telling him to bring them all home, including his sister. So, we are too believe Michael has been living for a year in hiding and not killing and all of a sudden knows it's Halloween so returns to his hometown. We have some kills at a strip club and some rednecks. And before long he's chasing Laurie.FINAL VERDICT: There are a few good scenes for the gore fans and that's the best thing I can say about the movie. I wouldn't pay to see it, but if you catch it on cable, it's good for a bad horror movie.
This movie was terrible. I can't say one good thing about it. There was absolutely nothing funny about it. I like both Jonah Hill and Channing Tatum, but they were awful in this. Even the whole drug plot was just dumb.Action scenes were just lame and even the bad guys were just so unoriginal. And having 2 cops jealous of each other while undercover in college. I think a 9 year old could have written a better story. I mean who came up with the octopus in the beginning, terrible.FINAL VERDICT: Perhaps the worst big budget movie in a long time. Don't waste 2 hours of your life.
Sure, there's not much new in this type of thriller, but I found it very entertaining. In this type of cat and mouse game, it's psycho killer against sweet innocent girl. Tom is a parking lot security guard. It's late on Christmas Eve and Angela is working late. When she attempts to leave, her car won't start. She asks Tom for help. The next thing she knows, she wakes up and is in a dress and at a table with Tom. Slight problem is she is chained to the table. Tom violently kills a co worker whom harassed Angela. Angela escapes and it's a chase film from that point. Whom can outwit whom.FINAL VERDICT: I thought it was a good thriller. If you like these type of movies, I highly recommend this one.
then this movie is right up your alley. I thought it was good and very Tarintino-esque. There are tons of kills in this in which blood just shoots everywhere; it's made to be silly, which is what makes it so good.Two sons murder their father and all that stands in there way to get the gold is the favorite son, Zen Yi. Zen Yi tracks them down after learning what they did. Meanwhile, a man named Jack Knife arrives at Jungle Village and is bad #ss. He slices up this dude in a brothel and then has his fun. The local blacksmith is planning to run away with one of the brothel's girls, Lady Silk. The Lions, the ones who killed their father, want the blacksmith to make them weapons. Something happens and they get mad at him and get this guy whom some how is made of bronze to punish him. He brutally slices his arms off, Jack heals him and makes him Iron hands, and then he's ready for revenge. So the last part is this big battle at the brothel, lots of outlandish gore and so on. So, if you like movies like Kill Bill, then this is for you.FINAL VERDICT: If you are into ridiculous violent films, then check this one out.
I think the writer of this movie thought the story was clever, but it is too clever for its own good. The story just gets crazy and out there and hence becomes uninteresting. Jim Carey plays William Sparrow, a man who beings to read the novel The Number 23. He begins to find similarities between himself and the main character of the book, Fingerling. I never got how their two lives were similar. The movie explained this poorly. Sparrow begins to come up with all these crazy figures of how to get the number 23 or 32 or any variation. He says this plus this plus this equals 23, How weird? I just didn't get it. He has dreams of killing his wife and jumps out a window, but really doesn't. I'm not sure.FINAL VERDICT: I didn't like the story. I didn't think it made sense.
In order to get this spoof, you must have watched the movie 300. This film follows the story in 300, but also spoofs many other films and celebrities. Just a list of some are American Idol, Dancing with the Stars, Deal or No Deal, Stomp, Paris Hilton, Brittany Spears, Brangelina, Spiderman. Carman Electra plays Leonidas Queen; she also gets around as Leo finds out when he sees her tattoo that says he was there, as well as Tommy Lee...all the way down to the Oakland Raiders. There are a lot of sex jokes as well as homosexual innuendos, like having the soldiers skip along singing and holding hands.FINAL VERDICT: If you like spoof films like Scary Movie, Naked Gun, then you will probably like this one.
This movie is similar to other British gangster movies, except it's missing Jason Statom. I always find these sort of double crossing films entertaining. Lenny, the head guy, is doing a business deal with a rich Russian. The Russian is going to give him 7 million so he can get plans approved to build. The Russian tells his accountant, Stella, to get the money together. What he doesn't know is she has grown tired of the safe life and she tells 3 thugs whom owe Lenny money about the money pick up so they can steal it. Also Lenny's rocker stepson breaks in and steals a lucky painting that is owned by the Russian. So, Lenny's tracking the painting that gets passed around. Also, Stella steals from her boss twice when he sets up another money drop off.And at the end we find out whom the informer is that kept sending all the low level gangsters to prison. It's a little bit funny and has some silly action, like the second time One Two steals the money; they are chased by the big Russian guys that just seem to keep getting up.FINAL VERDICT: Another pretty good Guy Ritchie film. It's worth checking out.
I thought this was a good film. The government has a secret project that is going on and that is enhancing soldiers with physical and mental pills. Well the government has decided they want to end the project, so in order to do that they have to get rid of all involve.Meanwhile, one of these soldiers, Aaron is hiding out in Alaska and is running out of pills. He meets another like him and witnesses his execution and knows people are after him. In Maryland, some scientists are gunned down that were working on the project, with one surviver, Marta. So Aaron tracks her down, saves her, and is wanting her to get him pills. She reveals a startling fact about his condition and then they travel half way around the world to find the answer that Aaron needs in order to survive.FINAL VERDICT: I thought it had an entertaining plot and some good action. Check it out.
This movie was more of a let down than anything else. Considering all the big stars in this, I was expecting to laugh a lot, but they must have disappeared. It really wasn't that funny.First I love Steve Carroll but his monotone voice in this just wasn't funny. It was more annoying than anything. In this movie, he plays famous Las Vegas magician, Burt Wonderstone. He does a show with life long best friend, Anton, but the 2 have been bickering for a while. They have a big blow up and Burt can't do the show without Anton. So, he's out of a job, money, but meets his favorite magician Rance Holloway while working in a nursing home. So of course, Burt changes his ways and comes out on top with a new audience disappearing act with Anton. He also finally shows up stunt magician, Steve Gray.But the main problem with the movie is it just didn't make me laugh, Sure you would think Jim Carrey would be hilarious as a magician doing crazy things, like lay down on fire, hold his urine for a week,etc... but it was amusing but not funny.FINAL VERDICT: Skip it, it doesn't live up to expectations.
This type of film has been done numerous times. Here a psycho teacher became obsessed with of on his students, Donna. Once fired he showed up at her house and killed her family while she was hiding. It's several years later, and Donna is attending her high school prom. What she doesn't know is the killer has escaped and he's tracking her down.The cops learn of the escape that night, but decide not to call and warn her. Instead they let her go tot he prom and plan to stake out the hotel without her knowing. So stupid. So of course the killer shows up, gets his own hotel room, and follows Donna and her friends to the the room they are staying in. He kills a maid and gets a room key master card. Now all he has to do is wait in their room for her.One by one a couple of her friends go upstairs not to return. Eventually the police find the maid's body and know he is there. They evacuate the hotel, but of course don't tell anyone why, so Donna goes upstairs to get a scarf???? Next it is her meeting with the killer. The very ending of the film at Donna's house was little different than the usual, that part was OK. But every other part of the movie was so old.Also, this movie was pg 13 instead of R. So, while showing the actually stabbings, there is little blood ever shown. If you make a movie like this, it has go to be R.FINAL VERDICT: Not worth watching.
that's not exactly true. This movie is about a young Jane Austen and the one guy she loved that helped inspire her to write her novels. Jane has a father whom is a preacher and receives an offer to marry from Mr. Wisley, a man whom will inherent his Aunt's wealth. Of course, her family wants the union to take place. However, Jane has ideas of her own. She has fallen for a young lawyer, Mr. Lefroy, and wishes to marry him. Mr. Lefroy depends on his uncle for money to support himself and his siblings. The uncle doesn't approve of Jane and does not give his acceptance of the marriage. This puts Jane and Mr. Lefroy in a pickle. Do they run away and marry and risk being outcasts from their families and having little money or do they find wealthier mates to marry?Anne Hathaway isn't that great in this role. She's not British and it shows. Also, the story doesn't have a lot of conflict or action; therefore, it moves along slowly.FINAL VERDICT: OK, but seems like it lasts too long. But, if you like period movies, then you will like this.
I was expecting better from Steve Carroll and Tina Fey, but for me, this movie just didn't deliver. There wasn't anything that made me laugh out loud. Some scenes were amusing. Carroll and Fey play a married couple that take the reservation of another couple at a fancy restaurant. It turns out the the other couple stole a flash drive from some gangster and he's hired two goons to get it back, and the goons happen to be cops. So, these cops take Carroll and Fey and threaten them. They escape and hunt down a friend played by Mark Wahlberg. Wahlberg had the best scenes, as he stands there shirtless while everyone seems to make comments about it. The 2 track down the disk and want to return it. They are still being chased by the bad cops and the good cops and have to do a semi-stripper dance at the end.FINAL VERDICT: not good enough to recommend.
This movie reminded me of a music video, it had cool actors, cool clothes, cars, explosions, loud music, and hot girls. Only problem was this was supposed to be a big budget action film directed by a good director. The script was not good; too many scenes of the actors staring out into the ocean. This made the movie too long at over 2 hours.Also, Colin Farrell still sounded like he's from Ireland. He didn't pull off a very good English accent. But he does look good.As for the plot, I still don't understand it. I get the two cops went undercover to smuggle drugs into Miami. And Sonny hooked up with Isabelle who was involved with the drugs, but didn't see her as all that bad. They talked with some other bad guys, but I never learned their names nor cared. The script just wasn't well written.FINAL VERDICT: The TV show has to be better because it couldn't be worse. I'd skip this one.
too bad 3 of the top 4 characters appear to be miscast. Jamie Foxx plays the lead FBI investigator who brings his team of 3 agents to Saudia Arabia to investigate a bombing that killed another agent and hundreds of others. Foxx is too young for this role; I picture some guy in his 50s would be leading the investigation. Also, I don't think a woman would be sent over to the Middle East for the investigation. Jennifer Garner shouldn't have even been it. But since she is, she is also to sweet and you don't think of her as some kick @ss FBI agent. Her fight scene at the end with the knife was brutal, but I just don't see someone like her doing that. And Jason Bateman is the last of the miscast Americans. I don't buy him as a seasoned agent either. Chris Cooper is the only one whom is believable as a top agent. And the lead Saudie investigator was quite good, but I had a feeling of what would happen when he talks about having kids. It just didn't seem like he was going to have a happy ending.The other thing is I find it hard to believe that a few people could track down terrorists on their own turf, whom are considered ghosts, in the span of a few days. The investigation just came together a little too easy, like an episode of CSI.FINAL VERDICT: Has some good action, especially towards the end, but the story isn't that believable.
This was one of the better movies of the year and Sandra Bullock's best role to date. I can see why she was nominated for acting awards, but I think she won because she didn't have much competition. The movie is about family and has some humor thrown in. SJ was the cutest kid and added some humor. The story is based on a real person, Michael Oher, whom was helped out by a rich white family when he didn't have anyone. They helped him get a college scholarship and he just happened to turn out to be a really good football player. He also became part of their family.FINAL VERDICT: Watch it. It's a good movie and has a happy ending.
I thought this movie was OK, certainly better than some of the other Potter films. As usually, lots was left out of the book. I almost think these films would be better if it was just a series on TV and 6 hours was devoted to each book. From what I remember from reading the book, I think the movie left out a lot of the memories Harry views about Voldermart and his background. Also, I think the ending had a big fight scene between death eaters and the students at Hogwarts. That wasn't in the film. My favorite part from the film was Harry and Dumbledore retrieving the horcrux in the middle of the lake. It seemed close to what was written in the book.FINAL VERDICT: If you watched the other films, then you have to check this one out.
This movie was fair. Four guys have "witch" powers. The first to turn 18 is the first to ascend, meaning he has the strongest powers. We are introduced to two new students at the school. One is a girl, who makes a hot girlfriend for the leader, Caleb. Then there is Chase who seems very interested in hanging out with the group of four. The beginning tells of 5 witch families, but one family's descendants had all died or so we think. That part pretty much gives away as to who Chase really is.The special effects were OK at times. I didn't know that witches used energy balls to combat. I thought that final fight scene with all the energy blasts was sort of comical.FINAL VERDICT: Not really anything new. The unknown actors were kind of hot, but other than that, I see no reason to watch this.
who wrote, directed, and starred in this movie before, but I think they were pretty good and probably have a few more decent movies in them. This film was filled with crude humor, however, I found a lot of it funny. Eugene wakes up from a 4 year coma. Right before the coma, he was fixing to sleep with his long time girlfriend, Cindi, for the first time. After waking up, he finds out Cindi is Miss March in Playboy. Him and his best friend Tucker set out on a trip to California to the Playboy Mansion to find Cindi. The meet up with Tucker's friend, Horsedick.mpeg, whom was quite funny. Also the lesbians that pick them up were funny too.My favorite scene is on the party bus when Tucker is in the back with that girl, she opens the window, and sort of just hops out the window and Tucker is standing there with this priceless look on his face.FINAL VERDICT: A good pick for those that like crude humor.
This movie was OK if you are looking for one of those mindless action movies. It's filmed like a video game, lots of chases, explosions, cool looking dudes, only problem is they aren't good actors. And for once, Matt Dillion plays one of the good guys, a cop, while Paul Walker is one of the criminals. That's just backwards. Also, this is one of those movies where the writer wants you to root for the "bad" guys because they don't want to hurt anyone, just steal money to lead a lavish life style or in one case, pay for drug rehab for a sibling.The first bank robbery was cool with the crooks using a TV stations helicopter to make a get away. Then their second robbery was not quite as unique. One thing, I don't think professionals like these would agree to a job with only 5 days to prepare. That's not enough time to pull it off.FINAL VERDICT: Good, for a fun flick.
This story is very uplifting. It's about a 30 year old bartender/layed off teacher, whose wife just left him. He tries out for the Philadelphia Eagles and against all odds, makes the team. Coach Vermeil sticks with Vince because he's got heart, even though his assistant coaches think he should be cut. Vince goes on to play several years in the NFL.The football scenes were shot pretty good. But, I hate how they always have to stick some love interests in the story that doesn't have much to do with the story. Here, they insert another bartender, who eventually dates Vince. It's just a chance for Mark Wahlburg to get a few kissing scenes in.FINAL VERDICT: I didn't think it was anything that is a must see. If you like movies about sports, then you may want to check it out.
This movie did not have enough substance to deserve a theater release in my opinion. I could see this as A Lifetime TV movie of the week. The highlight was Anglina Jolie. She did a great acting job in this. Also I think the movie was released too long after the actual event. I didn't remember much about this case on the news. I just mainly remember a reporter was kidnapped and beheaded when demands weren't met. It should have been released maybe 3 years after the fact. And all the filler with the police tracing down leads was boring since you know they don't find Danny.FINAL VERDICT: The only reason to watch this is if you really like Anglina Jolie.
This movie was awful compared to the first film. First the story was not thrilling, it did not keep you on edge like the first film. Also the sex scenes are very tame for today's standard. And it is no where near as hot as the first film.Sharon Stone does not even look like Sharon Stone any more. I don't know what she did to her face, but it didn't work. And I didn't think she played her character very well. Katherine in this film was too over the top and silly. The script just didn't work.FINAL VERDICT: Not good. This isn't a sexy thriller, but a boring wann-a-be mystery. Do not waste your time watching this.
I am not sure why this got a lot of really good reviews from critics. It was OK, but I didn't think the story was anything that original. It's about a young girl, 16 year old Jenny, whom becomes infatuated with a much older man, David, whom shows her attention and takes her to nice places. It seems clear from the beginning when we meet his friend and his girl, that something isn't quite right, and they are a little shady. But Jenny, whom is enjoying concerts and nightclubs for the first time, is willing to overlook it, even when she knows they have done something illegal.The side plot involves Jenny and her school. She and her dad have their eyes set on Oxford, but Jenny is so smitten with David, she's willing to give all that away. She also learns valuable lessons from her teacher.FINAL VERDICT: OK, but I don't think it's good enough to recommend.
it usually means, it's not that good. That is the case with Chloe. First, the director uses shock value by having Chloe describe in detail her affair with Catherine's husband, David. Then they show a graphic scene of Chloe and Catherine together having an affair. You know all of that was for publicity and to try to entice teenage boys to see this.And the ending was dull. They should have had Chloe go a little more psycho than just seducing Catherine's son. And the ending was basically an accident, should have been more thrilling.FINAL VERDICT: I guess if you are fan of stalker movies, then you'll want to check this one out.
then this movie is for you. Three grown nerds decided to get back at the bullies from their childhood by participating in a baseball tournament with other kids and jocks. The winner gets a new stadium dedicated to them, being built by super rich nerd, Mel. Of course, being adults, the 3 nerds can hit better than the kids. Heder plays the most memorable character, Clark, who has serious IQ problems. There are a few funny scenes, but this movie is still pretty silly. There are also some surprising cameos. Reggie Jackson is in this as well as a couple of retired NFL players. Craig Kilborn even has a role as a grown up bully.Best scene was the baseball player with his birth certificate saying he was 12. Funny.FINAL VERDICT: If you like silly films with not much plot, then you should like this.
The main problem with this movie was that it's been done numerous times. There has been many movies about someone who can see the dead and then they try to help the deceased's loved ones. This movie uses a lot of dark, dry humor that is funny at times. Dr. Pincus is played by Brit, Ricky Gervais, and he is constantly a jerk. He always talks about how he hates people and makes rude comments. He dies during a surgery but is revived and can now see and talk to ghosts. Ghost Frank, gets Pincus's help to deal with his widow whom is going to marry someone else. Frank cheated on her and she hasn't forgiven him. Pincus goes out a few times with her and of course likes her even though he's such a jerk and she likes him for some unknown reason. Can Frank solve his problems so is spirit can leave the earth? FINAL VERDICT: It was OK,but sort of boring since this is an old concept. I don't recommend it unless you just have several hours to waste and can catch this on cable.
What is Juliet were a werewolf, that is the idea behind this movie. Vivan is the werewolf whom has fallen for a human, Aiden. She is next in line to be the bride of pack leader, Gabriel. Gabriel is OK, he doesn't want to kill innocent humans; however, Vivan's cousin thinks they should dominate humans and it doesn't matter. The pack get together to have hunts in the woods. Vivan says she doesn't kill but only loves to run free. Aiden kills Viv's cousin and he is chased by Gabriel and soon Viv is to because she sides with Aiden. So, forces try to pull Viv and Aiden apart, but can they keep together.As for the special effects, they were almost non existent. The transformation from human to wolf was very weak. I don't even think they tried. And here the wolves are real wolves not super wolf like monsters.As for the story, I agree with others this wasn't that great.FINAL VERDICT: Nothing great. I would skip this. Poor story and special effects.
This was a fairly entertaining film. Augusten has a bipolar mom and an alcoholic dad. His dad leaves the family because he can't take him crazy mom any more. His mom, Deirdre, starts seeing a nutty psychiatrist, who gives her lots of pills and takes her money. She lets the doctor adopt her son. The doctor has a younger daughter, Natalie, who befriends Augsten. His older daughter, Hope, is obsessed with the bible and thinks all will be solved by praying. Hope and her dad even setup a shrine to the doctor's poo. Just watch to see what I mean. Augusten takes up with a much older man whom is a crazy patient. His life is just all messed up from what he has to live with.FINAL VERDICT: Entertaining, has imagination. Worth seeing.
hard#ss is just plain funny. In this she plays a street wise cop, Mullins, that is forced to work with no nonsense FBI agent, Ashburn, played by Sandra Bullock. As in a lot of movies, opposites must come together for the greater good. Ashburn goes by all the rules and never swears while Mullins breaks the rules and swears nonstop.There's Mullins' family whom is a hoot and they question if Ashburn is really a woman. Then there is the chase in the beginning where Mullins if running down a drug dealer and throwing fruit at him. That is just funny.FINAL VERDICT: Not the funniest film, but there are some laughs and it's worth checking out.
made it in theaters. It's not very funny and it's not what I would call a romance film. The main character, Tank, is basically a jerk, treats women awful, and cusses all the time. Not my idea of funny. Plus the ending was completely unbelievable because there is no way Alexis would take him back after what he did at the wedding and after finding out Tank gets paid to take girls out, treat them bad so that they will run back to their exes.Kate Hudson needs to pick better scripts. And Dane Cook seems to be getting the same role as a big time jerk.FINAL VERDICT: Not worth your time.
The story was fairly entertaining, but it was too long. It would have been better at 90 minutes. There wasn't enough action to justify 120 minutes. The story focuses on Josey Aimes, a woman who moves home to work in the same mines as her father. All the women at the mines are sexually harassed and degraded at work. Management throws her complaints out the window. She actually gets attacked and quits. She wants to sue but has a hard time getting the other woman to file suit with her. She goes to court. There are quite a few court room scenes, most dealing with her past sexual history. A revelation is made in court, and it gives the other woman the confidence they need to stand up with Josey. Now they had enough woman to file a class action law suit.The movie also deals with Josey's parents. The mom supports her. At first, her dad thinks women has no business in the mines. But after hearing all the ugly names his daughter is called and terrible way she is treated, he stands up for her in front of everyone. Of course, it also had something to do with the fact his wife moved into a hotel. But Sissy Spacek gave a good performance as the wife.I'm surprised Charlene was nominated for acting awards. She was OK, but I don't think it was an outstanding performance.FINAL VERDICT: OK, more of a lifetime TV movie.
I'm a fan of 80's music, so of course I loved the songs in this, but that was about all. The only good singers were Mary J. Blige and Catherine Zeta Jones. Quite frankly, the other actors shouldn't even have tried to sing. Tom Cruise just can't perform a rock show. Julianne Hough is not a good singer and even worse actress. She wasn't given much to work with, but I don't see any qualities about her that make her a lead in a film. But she was worse in Footloose. "Hey Man" about stole the show from everyone. And when a monkey is the best character, you know you don't have much to work with.FINAL VERDICT: If you love rock songs from the 80's, it's fun to hear them again. But just don't expect a good film.
fall flat. This movie was not very funny. When the funniest thing is a guy pooping in a hat, you know you've got problems with your film.The movie is a about coward sheep herder, Albert, whom loses his girl, Louise, to a guy whom specializes in mustaches. He has a best friend whose girlfriend is a hooker but doesn't mind. A beautiful girl, Anna, shows up and Albert takes an interest. Albert agrees to a duel with Louise's new guy and Anna says she'll teach Albert how to shoot. Now a lot of the jokes depict people dying in crazy ways, but they really don't work. And of course there is a bad guy that shows up at the end and Albert shows how smart he is.FINAL VERDICT: Skip it.
I usually don't care for sci-fi films like this because I always think it doesn't make a lot of sense and has too many plot holes. But, if you pay attention, the movie makes sense and you can follow it. It's about a guy, Dom, whom is an extractor, meaning, he steels secrets from people when they are dreaming. There are all these different roles involved to pull off a perfect dream. He's hired to implant a thought into a guy's head and if he succeeds will be able to go back home and be with his children.So, the plan is complicated, it actually involves 4 dreams within a dream. And there are all these rules when dreaming. Like what wakes you up and what sends your mind into limbo.FINAL VERDICT: Just pay attention, and you'll like it.
The idea behind this movie is nothing really new. It's a road trip, this time to Mexico. A small time drug dealer, David, owes his supplier. In order to pay the debt, he must deliver a shipment of drugs from Mexico to the US. He "hires" a family to help him to seem less suspicious. They get the drugs then hi-jinx ensues. Of course, they are chased, there's some poll dancing, a huge spider, a lesson on kissing.All of it was amusing and it was one of Jennifer Aniston's better comedic roles. Kenny was the funniest character, with his naivety and shocked that he wasn't getting paid.FINAL VERDICT: It was OK, decent for a light weight comedy.
with this remake. The story could have been more developed in the beginning with showing young Leatherface and how he got to be so demented. Only about 5 minutes is spent showing Leatherface growing up. Most of the story is just like the previous sequels with Leatherface and his crazy family terrorizing 4 hot teens. The kids are in a car wreck and one, Chrissie stays hidden, as the Sheriff rounds them up and take them to the farmhouse. He also kills a biker chick that was trying to rob the kids. Chrissie finds the help of another biker, but he doesn't last long. The chainsaw scenes are quite graphic in this. Lots of blood and a few gross out shots of torture, especially Eric's. What Leatherface does to Eric's arm is so gross.FINAL VERDICT: All gore lovers should like this movie.
This is a very bad wanna be Lord of the Rings film. Difference is this story is awful, boring, and no interesting characters. I didn't think the first Narnia movie was that great, but it was better than this one. The only one I liked was the lion, Aslan, and he isn't in this movie till the very end.This movie is just like one long battle scene. And because it's a Disney film, there's no blood and not really any good fighting. The kids in the movie do kill some of their enemies; however, the camera pulls away and doesn't show much. I mean how many scenes with sword fighting can one movie have? The actor who played Prince Caspian was pretty good looking; however, his character kind of sucked. He just wasn't that interesting. And the girl who played Susan looked like she's already had collagen injected into her lips. What's up with that?FINAL VERDICT: Bad plot, felt like a couple of scenes just replayed over and over and over. I don't recommend it.
This movie was OK, but the plot is its downfall. Adam is staying with his sister and goes to work construction. He gets fired and meets Mike there. Adam sees Mike again and they go the male strip club where Mike works. Next thing you know, Adam is the new meat at the club. Dallas, the owner, takes him under his wing and shows him some movies. But Adam gets involved with drugs, who would have guessed, and his life spirals out of control. Mean while, Mike has got the hots for Adam's sister and is looking to start his own business and stop striping. So, how will things work out, it's very predictable.FINAL VERDICT: Yes, ladies, the guys are hot and worth sitting through the film. I'm not sure why any guys would want to see this.
whom is great, but otherwise, I didn't really care for the film. I mainly didn't like it because I care nothing about roller derby. I don't know anything about and don't care too. If it had been about something I liked more, like ice skating for example, I think I would have liked the movie a lot more.Page plays, Bliss, a teen whom enters pageants because of her mom. One day she sneaks off to a roller derby match and tries out for a team. Of course, she turns out to be one of the faster skaters and becomes a star in the league. Only problem is she's not old enough to participate and she's lying to her parents. Then a dull love story is thrown in. And since I guess this was a feel good movie, everything works out for Bliss in the end.FINAL VERDICT: I'm sure a lot of people will like this, but it wasn't for me. I hope to see Page in more films in the future.
This movie is by no means a brain teaser, but it's fun to watch. If you like the ocean and snorkeling, then you'll like this. The film has a lot of cool shots of sea life. Jared and Sam are a couple whom team up with his friend Bryce and his girl Amanda. They go diving and Jared thinks he may have found a shipwreck with lost treasure. But they also find a drug plane with all cargo intact.They decide to find proof for a claim on the wreck before calling the police about the plane. Only problem is they don't have the money to buy the needed equipment to move large amounts of sand. So Bryce and Amanda decide to do a little side deal with the drugs but of course when you deal with drug dealers, problems ensue. Now they need to get the drugs to save their lives. And the real bad guy turns out to be someone from early in the movie.The movie features a couple of shark attacks that are not realistic, more funny than anything. Sharks attack someone and the water is filled with blood, yet they leave all the good guys alone. And a shark wouldn't go after someone like these reef sharks did. We aren't talking great whites.But the action is cool and filmed well underwater.FINAL VERDICT: If you like the ocean, Paul Walker, or Jessica Alba, then see this. They are hot in it.
I for one thought this was pretty good. I don't get the bad reviews calling it the worst film of the year. There are plenty of other movies that are much worse. I found it entertaining and sometimes funny.Hugh Grant played a Simon Cowel character who is harsh when he doesn't like a singer. Mandy Moore is the singer who wants to win the contest the most and has decent talent. She puts on this goody toshue act. She dumped her boyfriend before going on the show. He went to war, got shot, came home, and now she sees it's to her advantage to "date" (use) him again to look like the American Dream. Omer is a terrorist who also fantasizes about being in the singing spotlight. Since the president will judge the final round, the other terrorists want Omer, who has little talent, to make it to the finals. So viewers keep voting the no talent Omer along. It's quite amusing to watch him sing. The plan is to blow up the president at the finals. Mean while the president is going through a depression and relies on others to tell him what to do. And his wife closely resembles Laura Bush, imagine that.FINAl VERDICT: An entertaining satire showing how silly reality TV shows can be. I recommend it.
but still too many plot holes for me to really like it. I'm not that big a fan of sci-fi movies because usually there are too many plot holes. Such as does he even third world countries have surrogates? How do people procreate if they only go out in public as surrogates? Why do people stop committing crimes just because they use a surrogate? Bruce Willis plays detective Tom Greer whom is out to solve the countries first murder in quite some time. It seems now, every one uses a surrogate, meaning they use their mind to control a robot. The robots are made to be the most attractive looking version of yourself and can run, jump like a superhero. The guy murdered is the son of the inventor of surrogates, a man that was forced out of his own company years ago and is now a recluse. There are also sections of cities that are robot free, where humans don't want surrogates.It's up to Tom and his partner to figure out what new gadget killed the guy by killing his surrogate and what ties this to the inventor of surrogates.FINAL VERDICT: OK, worth seeing on cable.
This movie was OK mainly because of Jack Black. He plays Gulliver, a mail room guy, whom steals some material from another source to wright a review of some destination. One of the bosses there, Darcy, whom happens to be the girl he likes, thinks he should be a writer and gives him his first assignment, the bermuda triangle. So he takes a boat and gets caught up in a storm and winds up in Liliput, a land of little people. They call him the beast but he soon becomes respected. He teaches them about Star Wars and Titanic. Has them rebuild Times Square and incorporates modern music. He befriends Horatio and gives him love advice. Horatio likes the Princess and soon Gulliver is having him sing Prince songs to her. Gulliver defends their land by destroying the enemies boats. General Edward, whom is courting the Princess, doesn't like him and joins the enemy. And later Darcy shows up and Gulliver is rescued from a land of giants. And there's a happy ending.FINAL VERDICT: Black was funny in this. It had some cute moments and the short running time made the movie entertaining enough to recommend if you don't mind a story that's been told before.
This movie was like another version of Transformers, this time with alien/sea monsters doing the attacking. The aliens, aka Kaiju, have come from the ocean instead of the sky; There is a breach that leads to another dimension. And for some reason, the Kaiju only come 1 by 1 and months apart instead of sending in a whole bunch at one time. How does that make sense? You attack with numbers. And ways as you can see this movie requires the viewer to suspend a lot of common sense in order to enjoy.Humans have built giant "Transformers", aka Jaeger, to battle the aliens. It takes 2 people to operate the Jaeger. So our hero, Becket, has lost his brother in battle and gets recruited again for one last attempt to stop the Kaiju. He goes to Hong Kong where there are only 4 Jaeger left. Some Kaiju show up and we get another big battle. The general has a plan to end it all by blowing up the breach.Overall, it was a good action flick if you overlook the loop holes in the story and all reality. The special effects were really good, which is what made the film.FINAL VERDICT: a good choice for a popcorn flick
This was an entertaining film with quite a bit of violence. It's definitely an R film. If you don't care for gory realistic violence than you probably won't sit through the whole film. The movie begins in a shocking way when a man's throat is slashed. It's especially graphic because the sawing motion is shown and it looks realistic.A young girl dies at the hospital after giving birth. The midwife who delivered the baby wants to find the girl's family to give the child to. Her search leads her to a Russian restaurant where she unknowingly becomes involved with the Russian mob. She mentions a diary the girl had written in Russian and wants the Restaurant owner, who is the boss, to translate. He knows there may be secrets in that diary so wants it back.His son, Kirill, was the one responsible for the hit and did it without his father's permission. This means the other mob family wants revenge. Kirill's driver, Nikoli, is the other main character. He gets his mob tattoo stars and is set up by the boss in hopes of protecting his son.The end of the film contains one of the most intense, gruesome fight scenes ever. It's definitely what this movie will be remembered for. Nikoli is involved in a nude fight scene in a bath that ends with lots of blood. Excellent.It's easy to see why Viggo received several award nominations. He deserved them because his character was unique and interesting.FINAL VERDICT: If you can stomach the violence, definitely check it out.
it was better than the first film, which was truly awful. I found this sequel to be more entertaining and it had its moments. Samantha is into hormones. Miranda has quit her job to find something better. Charolette has a hot nanny and crying kids. Carrie is trying to do everything possible to keep her marriage from becoming boring. So in the beginning, we get some funny scenes with Charolett's braless nanny and a gay wedding with Liza Mannali. Even Jerrod Smith gets thrown in.Samantha gets in invite with a rich Arab to go to Abi Dabi for a week so brings along her girlfriends. You just know something will happen with her when it comes to inappropriate public behavior. Carrie meets Adian there which I thought was the worse thing in the movie. That's too much of a coincidence. We get some nice visuals with their 5 star hotel room and butlers, especially "paula". Some drama at the end and of course it wraps up with Samantha getting her guy and Carrie with Big.FINAL VERDICT: If you liked the TV show, it's worth checking out. Much better than the first film.
had the better actors with Eric Bana, Jennifer Connley, and Sam Elliott. I liked all 3 actors better than the ones in the new Hulk version. But, this new Hulk overall was a little better; the story flowed better.The film begins with Bruce Banner living in Brazil in hiding working at a bottling plant. Some of his blood lands in a bottle and the General is able to track him there. The General has enlisted the help of aging soldier, Emil Blonsky (whom was great played by Tim Roth) to capture Banner. Of course, Banner gets angry and we get the first glimpse of Hulk. Blonsky is in awe of the Hulk's power and wants the same.Banner makes his way to Virginia to see Betty. Meanwhile, General Ross decides to allow Blonsky to be injected with a serum similar to what Banner had, giving him super power. Ross is tipped to Banner's where abouts and this is the first encounter with Hulk and a vamped up Blonsky. Blonskly proves he can take a licking and keep on ticking. This encounter also offers some great special effects.Hulk gets away with Betty, and the two are on a mission to seek out Mr. Blue who maybe able to reverse the effects of the gamma radiation. Ross finds Mr. Blue and so does Blonsky who insists he be given a dose of Banner's blood.The end of the movie is a cool fight between Hulk and Blonsky's version of the Hulk. Good special effects.FINAL VERDICT: While not the best comic movie to come out, this one was pretty good. I wanted to see it in the theater last year, but didn't. After seeing it, I think that was a good choice because it's not worth 10 dollars to see. It's a good action, popcorn flick, but definitely lacks some of the humor in the Spiderman films.
This was a cute kids movie about 3 brothers. The film centers around 7th grader, Greg, and how he gets along with friends and family. He has a younger 3 year old brother he finds annoying. But the movie focuses on his relationship with his older high school age brother, Rodrick. They are always at odds and pulling pranks on each other. There's the skating ring where Rodrick teases Greg about Holly, the pretty new girl, and he plays rock music right as Greg is asking her to dance. There's the prank before church where Rodrick puts a candy bar in Greg's seat, and it looks like poop on his pants. Their mom comes up with the idea of mom bucks, which means she will pay them to spend time with each other and be civil. Their parents go on a trip leaving the 2 boys at home and of course there is a party that leads to some laughs as the parents are coming home early and the bathroom door needs replacing. After sticking together about the lies of no party, they start hanging out, and there is some fun with fake vomit.Some of the movie is also about Greg's friends, mainly his best bud, Rowley. They have a sleepover and watch a scary movie and there is some laughs with a gift made by his little brother. Then there is Chirag, whom teases Greg, so he plays the invisible game with him till he flubs up because of being outsmarted.FINAL VERDICT: It's fun and cute. I think kids will like and I liked it too.
This movie was funnier than I expected. It had quite a few jokes that worked for me. It's a spoof based mainly on the Spiderman films and a little bit of X-men and Batman thrown in. Leslie Nielsen had some funny scenes as the grandfather. Then there is the friend, Trey, whom is obsessed with ipods and computers. They make fun of the kiss scene in Spiderman. There's also the funny boss at the newspaper. There's just too many funny scenes to name. About the only joke that I thought went to far and was offensive was Stephen Hawking. The writers should not have gone there.FINAL VERDICT: A silly comedy that works; worth a viewing.
I didn't think this movie was that great, mainly because the action is slow and boring. There's not a lot you can do on a train besides have characters run from train car to car.Ben Kingsley is by far the best part of the film. He plays the crooked cop after drug money. Woody Harrelson is no longer relevant and the movie would have been better with someone else playing the husband. And what was with his wife, Jessie, going all psycho on Carlos. That seemed really out of character. And I can't believe the cops couldn't ask the bus driver where he dropped Jessie and Carlos off and they would find the church since they saw the pictures from Jessie's camera.FINAL VERDICT: Just not enough action on a train for a film trying to be a thriller. I'd skip it.
I'm surprised such a big star as Hugh Jackman would pick such a bad script. From the beginning, it was easy to tell Jackman's character, Wyatt, was going to be the bad guy. He befriends, shy accountant, Jonathan(they bond over smoking weed in the office). One afternoon, he "accidently" picks up Jonathan's phone and Jonathan gets his phone. Wyatt leaves the country, but tells Jonathan it's OK to use his phone. Jonathan soon discovers Wyatt is a member of the List, a type of anonymous sex club. He starts calling up numbers and hooking up with woman. One night the girl that shows up is someone he knows and really likes. He goes to get some ice and leaves her in a hotel room. When he returns, she is gone, blood is on the bed, and he is knocked out. The rest of the movie is what happened to the girl and how is Wyatt setting Jonathan up and why? I didn't find it thrilling.FINAL VERDICT: Not very good. Hugh Jackman just doesn't fit this role. He needs to be the good guy not bad one.
this sequel has less gore and blood, but the plot is a little more developed. But, since one watches films like this to be shocked, my opinion is the first film was far superior than the sequel. The only real amount of blood comes during the death of Lorna, which was quite gruesome. However, that is the only scene you can even compare to the first film. The 3 American tourists in this movie are a little smarter, but still it doesn't take long for the "bloodhounds" to track them down. They try to give the women a little ones up manship by having Beth by her freedom and she even has to get a tattoo. They even get the gang of kids involved in the sequel.FINAL VERDICT: Overall, if you like slasher movies, check this one out; however, don't expect a lot because it is not as good as the first film.
I thought this movie was pretty good. The main part I didn't like was Mars. Why Mars because it didn't look anything like Mars. Mars is shown as being a hot desert; he should have just been sent to another galaxy and a new planet. But if you can get past that, I did think the story was good.John is a soldier and finds himself in a cave surprised by a Thern, which is from another planet. He kills the guy, but is transported to another planet. There he can jump really high and has great strength. He gets involved with a war between 3 groups, one of which are aliens. I liked the aliens in this; they looked cool. He joins up a princess to save her people. So the rest of the movie is about the war between them all and how John plays into it.And I really liked the end when John goes back to Earth and how that played out. Plus it's set up for the perfect sequel.FINAL VERDICT: A fun adventure, I recommend it.
I've really lost interest in Tom Cruise. His movies just aren't that good anymore and he does way to many sequels, ie..Mission Impossible. The idea behind this sci-fi movie didn't seem very unique. Basically, you have Jack whom is left on earth with Victoria and they are in charge to defend these water tower type things from alien scavs. Other humans have gone to live on one of Saturn's moons. They talk to this woman whom is supposedly in a space station and is overseeing their job. One day Jack finds a woman, Julia, in space capsule and he knows her. Then that's when the plot just gets too crazy and it makes no sense. Some how, Jack is a clone and the scavs are humans and aliens are steeling earth's resources, and no one is on Saturn's moon. All of it got too convoluted for me.FINAL VERDICT: Skip it, the plot and the actors aren't up to par.
After watching this, I understand why it got a lot of bad reviews. The story never makes much sense and the ending was horrible. First about the ending, what happened to Aurora and why was Toorop raising the 2 kids and why did she have 2 kids and why did one of them look bi racial? I have no idea to any of these questions.As for the first part, we never really learn what Aurora can do. We know she stops missiles and survives fire and predicts bombs exploding, but what is her mission in New York? The whole snow mobile scene was stupid. Everyone is covered heard to toe and you don't know who's who. And why did Aurora choose at first to go with those men that said worked for her dad. She thinks her dad is dead and those guys are trying to kill her guardians. Also, the scene where she almost kisses Toorop is just creepy because he is in his 40s and she is supposed to be a teen. Just gross.FINAL VERDICT: After seeing this, there are so many questions as to why or what happened. But, the biggest question is why was this movie ever made because it's so bad.
according to this movie. Before watching this film, you must forget everything you know about history, and take this as completely fictional except that their was a man named Abe Lincoln and he married Mary Todd. But what Abe does in this is not based on anything historical. First he some how has super human strength and can cut a huge tree down with one swing of an axe. Then his mom was killed by a vampire, so when older he wants to hunt them. Another vampire, Henry, helps him some, gives him tips, etc. Along the way, Abe meets Mary, he still is killing vamps, becomes a lawyer and eventually President. So skip to him in the White House and battle of Gettysburg. It seems General Davis has made a deal with vamps that are throughout the South and has vamps fighting the north. Abe comes up with a plan to collect all the silver and use it in battle. He rewrites history but the end result is still the same. And of course, the main vamp was the one that killed his mom and whom he wants revenge against.FINAL VERDICT: A crazy vampire movie that came about because of the Twilight movies. Not good enough to recommend.
The acting was better than I thought it would. This is the first good acting role Matt Damon has had in a while. I think it is also Leo's best performance to date. This movie has the same vibe as Scorsese's Goodfello's, but I don't think it is as good. Leo is the undercover cop trying to get the goods on mob boss Jack Nickolson. While Matt is one of Nickolson's boys who has landed a cop position. It is soon believed there is a rat in the police force and it's Matt's job to find the rat. What better way for him to tip of Nickelson about upcoming raids and keep the heat off him. Lots of police surveillance trying to find the mole as well as nutty behavior by Nickelson. The last 20 minutes has some shocking deaths and many head "shots".The revelation of the whole story was just very entertaining. It was well thought out. There is even major drama once Leo discovers who the mole was in the police.FINAL VERDICT: Very good story.
as I thought it would be. The acting was very good, but there wasn't a lot to the story. I wouldn't call the Wrestler one of the top films of the year.Mickey Rourke plays Randy "the Ram", a has been wrestler that has wasted the money he made and now lives in a trailer, works at a grocery store, and still wrestlers in matches on the small stage. This guy has fallen far. He once had a video game named after him, which he plays, and wrestled in Madison Square Garden. He has a heart attack after a match and the doctors recommend he quit wrestling and the roids.He uses this as a way to try to change his life. He tries to get to know a stripper, Cassidy, that he likes. He meets with her outside of work. He also tries to make up with his estranged daughter. But as someone whom hurts people, he never learns his lesson.I didn't like the ending because it seemed there wasn't one. I guess we were to assume that was either the end for the Ram or he had more heart problems and didn't live much longer.FINAL VERDICT: Story was slow and not much happens. But the acting is excellent, so it's worth watching.
This movie is shot to resemble some B 70s movie filled with lots of violence. It's similar to Tarrentino/Rodrigous collaborations, except this one is no where near as good. The story is not good. It's about a hobo that gets a shotgun and goes out for revenge. He kills those that humiliate the homeless and specifically goes after 2 brothers and their dad, whom love violence and killing people in sadistic ways. When they burn a school bus full of children and laugh about it, that was just disturbing. No one wants to see that.The hobo teems up with a prostitute and they talk about bears and leaving town, but soon she's got the shotgun also. Just silly.FINAL VERDICT: Don't give yourself nightmares, skip it.
in the jungle in a third world country?? That's all I wanted to know after watching this shoot-um up fest. I mean the hair was just a little too ridiculous since you know Sly Stalone is over 60. But, Stalone comes up with a really simple plot to let his Rambo character do what he does best. In the movie, Rambo is hired by some church group to drop them off in war torn Burma. Of course, the group gets captured when the evil general burns the village they were helping. The church hires some missionaries to rescue them and Rambo is the boat driver. Rambo gets involved and leads the mission into the enemy camp to rescue the survivors.There is a lot of shootings and people stepping on mines in this. And apparently all the bullets used are the kind that can tear someone in half. Real heavy duty stuff. And Rambo has his usual stare when blowing someone up.FINAL VERDICT: If you don't care about plot and just want to see some video game like action film, then you will probably think this was OK. I thought it was OK for what it was, a movie that requires no thinking.
past all the swearing. It got to the point all I was noticing was how many f words are in that sentence and I couldn't even pay attention to what was going on. The swearing was way over the top and too distracting.Ed Norton was good in this as usual. He plays the good cop and is mixed up with some bad cops that he's either related to or friends with. Basically some cops are taking dirty money and then try to kill one of the drug dealers they are working with and 4 of them gets killed. The others are trying to track the dealer down and get rid of him before he gets caught and talks.It was an OK story but seemed tired and rehashed. Also the ending was quite out there. First the angry mob just lets a cop(Ray) go that witnessed them beating another cop(Jimmy) to death. And the writers had to give Jimmy an easy way out to tidy up the mess.FINAL VERDICT: It was OK, but had to much cussing for me.
This movie is for action fans. I guess they used a bunch of really fake looking blood to keep from getting an X rating for violence. I think it works, my only complaints were a lot of the fights were in the dark, so it was hard to see what was happening on camera. The movie is about a secret clan of ninja assassins that kill for the highest bidder. Raizo, whom was the best student, struck against his clan after they killed the girl he liked. Since then, he has been hunted by them, but since he is the best, he stays alive. Mika is investigation a murder and learns of the clan, which puts her at risk. Raizo saves her and the 2 join forces to defeat the clan. So, you get a lot of fights and slashes with swords. And it ends how one would expect.FINAL VERDICT: Soley for action fans.
Michelle Pfieffer plays, Rosie, a writer on a hip teen show called You Go Girl. She's the Hollywood cougar. Her pray is aspiring actor, Adam, whom she hires to play a guest spot on the show. He's also about 15 years younger than her. At first, she's not keen on going out with him, but decides she can try to get past the age issue. She's also raising a teen daughter, whom has her own boy problems. Rosie's secretary, Jeannie, decides to mess with her situation and tries to make Rosie think Adam is seeing Brianna, star of You Go Girl, behind her back. Soon her lies are discovered and Rosie and Adam have a happy ending.FINAL VERDICT: I didn't think it was funny. I thought it was very average and I can see why it wasn't in theaters. Plus Michelle Pfieffer's face, particular her chin, looks really weird. She may have had some of that bad plastic surgery they make fun of in the beginning of the film. I don't recommend this one.
I was expecting bad things from this movie after reading other reviews, but I was pleasantly surprised. I thought it was pretty good. And if you are into adventure, diving, and cave exploring, you'll probably like the movie even more. In the beginning, we see these cave explorers using technical diving as they navigate a cave. Of course, all of this is really dangerous and an accident happens. Then Frank's, the guy in charge, son climbs down into the cave to base camp along with the rich guy whose sponsoring the exploring and his girlfriend. A cyclone rapidly moves in and the cave starts flooding. They try to escape but too much water is pouring down for them to climb against it. The only way out is by diving though unexplored chambers. And to top it off, the girl has never dived before.So the rest of the film is the adventure they encounter as they try to find a way out. They battle the cave, water,and expiring batteries as well as themselves once panic sets in. I thought the ending was good; however, it seemed impossible. It states the movie was based on real events, but I don't see how it could have ended like that in real life.FINAL VERDICT: It is an entertaining movie about a cave with no monsters. It's something that could really happen, so I liked it. Check it out.
Even though not a lot happens, this was still a really good movie. Mcconaughey definitely deserved the Oscar. However, I wasn't impressed by Jared Leto and don't know why he won all the awards. Just because he got skinny doesn't mean it's a great acting role.The movie is about Ron, a cowboy that drinks, does drugs, and has random sex. He finds out he is HIV positive and is given 30 days to live. He decides to take his health care into his own hands and does what he can to get a hold of drugs that may help him. He goes to Mexico and gets thousands of pills. He starts up a business called the Dallas Buyers Club in which he gives the drugs to members. Basically, he is a drug dealer, sort of helping people, but also trying to make as much money as possible. He teams up with Rayon, since he can get him more customers and needs the drugs too. And Jennifer Garner plays the doctor that thinks AZT is not a miracle drug and thinks Ron is right for trying something different.Ron lives longer than expected and sees the day the FDA changes its regulations by making drugs more available to dying patients.FINAL VERDICT: A really good drama. Check it out.
and it works. This may not be one of the most amusing films of the year, it does hold its own and was entertaining. The film has got 4 big stars to play the leads and they work in their roles. Michael Douglas is cast as the only character he could pull off, an old rich, man that has a bad fake tan and younger hot girlfriend. Robert De niro is the grouch, Kevin Kline, the guy that wants an adventure, and Morgan Freeman, the guy that just wants to get out. They all go to Vegas for the weekend for Billy's wedding. And unbelievably, Billy finds a girl he's more suited for. His 3 friends all have more fun than they've had in 10 years.There is just something funny about a bunch of 70 year olds partying in Vegas.FINAL VERDICT: It was OK, a good way to waste 100 minutes of your life.
then this movie is for you. Eric Bana plays detective Sarchie, whom has a radar for "bad" things. On a case, he encounters several people connected to this crazy looking painter. One woman whom threw her child into the mote inside the lion enclosure at a zoo and an ex-vet that beat up his wife. He discovers this weird message being covered up by the painter. Along the way, he meets a priest, Mendoza, that believes the woman was possessed. Of course, Sarchie doesn't believe at first, but too many weird things happen, like the woman going cannibal on his arm and knowing "marvin". The priest says the message is a portal for a demon to enter the world.Finally they catch the painter, after he's done something to Sarchie's family and must perform an exorcism. I thought the exorcism was done well and seemed plausible.FINAL VERDICT: This is based on a true story, so that makes it creepy. I wonder how much was embellished for Hollywood. Any ways, it's a good thriller and I recommend it.
in which the question is "Is the main character crazy?" Jill, the victim of a serial killer, managed to escape from a hole in a park a year ago. The police never found evidence, so never believed her story and she was put in a mental ward. Now, she is living with her sister, Molly, and still obsessed with finding her kidnapper. She comes home from work one morning to find Molly missing. Of course, she panics and goes to the police claiming the kidnapper took Molly by mistake. The police don't want to do anything till it's been 3 days, so Jill takes the investigation into her own hands. This is where the plot gets sketchy because she is being hunted by the police since she has a gun all the while she is tracking down clues, like going to a hard ware store and a locksmith. That would be hard to get away with. Any way she some how thinks this patron at the café she works at is the kidnapper, tracks down his number, and agrees to go out in the park by herself to meet him at night. That part was creepy and dumb on her part. So is the kidnapper real, does she find Molly? It was an OK ending.FINAL VERDICT: It has its moments, but also could have used better writing. If you like suspense, check it out.
I didn't really care much for this film. I found it sort of boring with unnecessary violence. The story was slow and not thrilling for a supposed murder mystery. Four adoptive brothers solve the mystery behind there mother's death; it was more than a convenience store robbery. It was a planned murder. There's a lot of shooting and a totally unnecessary girlfriend for one of the brothers. She adds nothing to the film. And some how a dirty cop gets thrown into the mix.And Mark Wahlberg is not looking his best. They got his hair all oily looking and slicked back. Not a great look. But Tyrese is as hot as usual.FINAL VERDICT: I was bored and don't recommend it.
seemed more of a TNT type of film rather than something released in theaters. There are A list movie stars. Only problem is the subject matter isn't that exciting. The film is about sports betting, which is not that thrilling. Walter is a "king" in sports betting and recruits Brandon to New York to make football picks. At first Brandon, goes on a long winning streak and makes a lot of money. He starts picking losers and the pressure gets to him. He even is threatened by a mobster type of guy who has lost a lot of money with his picks. And to top things off, Brandon gets a little too chummy with Walter's wife. Also Walter confesses he's back to betting with Brandon's picks and is in the red also. Brandon comes to a realization and must decide what type of life he wants to lead.There was nothing great about the acting. And the film at 2 hours was too long. I agree with other reviews that the last hour was to slow. The first hour was much better with Brandon getting to the top.FINAL VERDICT: I would not pay to see this. But if you like Matt Mcconaughey it's worth checking out. There are several shirtless scenes by him.
This was a great movie and I can see how it deserved the Oscar for best picture. It takes a simple concept and tells a tale of childhood love with a happy ending. The story is about an orphan that survived the slums of Mumbi and is now a contestant on Who wants to be a Millionaire. Jamal has made it to the final question. He is being questioned as to how he knew all the answers. Through this, we get to see how he grew up and the relationship between his brother and the girl he fell in love with, Latika. Basically, everything he's done has been to find Latika again.The story was very entertaining and it was just a new idea. I really enjoyed it.FINAL VERDICT: Highly recommend this one.
This was the worst of the Final Destination movies. The writers didn't even try with any character development and incorporated some very lame death scenes. As in all the films, this one starts off with a teen having a premonition about a horrible accident. But this beginning with the race track is not as good as in the previous films and the deaths seem to fake. Any ways, the teen, Nick, saves some of his friends and several others from what would have been their fate.The "accidents" in this movie just aren't as good or gory as the others in this franchise. I mean a rock through the eye and we've seen the hit by a bus before. Plus the actors just aren't interesting.FINAL VERDICT: This is one of those films to see if you want to laugh and make fun of the stupid things the characters do.
It's been less than a week since I watched this film and I don't remember much about it. It just was not very entertaining and it was hard to pay attention since it is way too long. Too many characters and too little time devoted to each one. I still have no idea what the point of Matt Daman's character was.And I have no idea why George Cloony won acting awards for this role. I didn't think it was anything exceptional. He plays a CIA(I think) agent who plays undercover roles in the Mid East. His story involves a king and a brother and something about him trying to stop an assassination. Plus, he gets tortured by some guy who the first time we see them together seems like his friend. I didn't get that.The whole subject matter was just boring.FINAL VERDICT: Did not deserve the praise it received last year. Boring. A waste of time.
I've seen several films about dysfunctional families with secrets and this movie offers nothing new to the mix. It stars Andy Garcia, as prison guard Vince, whom is secretly taking acting classes. Him and his wife seem to argue a lot. His son't secret is that he likes fat women and watching them eat. That was the best part of the film because it is so quirky, the only laughs of the movie. His daughter has been kicked out of college and is working as a stripper to earn enough money to go back to school. Then there is Vince's secret son, a prisoner he bails out. He brings the son, Tony, home and employs him to build a bathroom.So as you can see, there's a lot of secrets, but it's nothing new or great.FINAL VERDICT: It was OK, but I don't think I'll recommend it, too many other movies out there.
The plot to this movie gives it so much potential, but in the end, it is just OK. I'm sure the book is much better. As with most time traveling movies, there are just too many plot holes for me. It's just to confusing when you have Henry showing up and seeing himself but at a different age. It tries to tell a love story, girl meets guy, gets married, has a kid with one little hitch: he can disappear at any time and be gone for days. But, Clare makes the best of it.SPOILER: What's really weird is she sees Henry after he's already died but it's a younger version of himself. Also, their kid sees them before she was ever born.FINAL VERDICT: Too confusing for me. But if you are a fan of Eric Bana or Rachel Mcadams, then you'd probably like to sit through it.
interesting subject. This movie was much better than what I was expecting. Leo Dicaprio is really good in this as well as Djimon Hounsou. Djimon should have won the Oscar for his role. Leo plays Danny Archer, a diamond smuggler, whom has his eye set upon a huge payoff that will help him get out of Africa. He over hears a rebel accuse Solomn Vandy of finding a large pink diamond. Danny persuades Solomon to take him to the diamond, In return Danny helps him track down his family in a refuge camp. Danny also gets help from a journalist whom he has a thing for. There track across country is very dangerous with the rebels every where.The ending was good. It was how it should be. The movie was action packed but informative about some of the things going on in Africa. One of the most entertaining films of the year.FINAL VERDICT: Highly recommend it.
trying to lose his virginity. Michael Cera plays the nerd yet again; this time he is Nick Twisp. He lives with his mom and her live in boyfriend. They go to a trailer park for a week where Nick meets Sheeni, the girl of his dreams. He invents this French alter ego (he's French because Sheeni is obsessed with anything French) that comes up with these plans to try to get kicked out of his house so he can live with his dad, whom lives close to Sheeni. So the alter ego steels and starts fires and Nick gets his wish. Only problem is Sheeni is now going to a private French school. So Nick has to devise more evil plans to try to be with her. His plans are crazy and silly which is what makes the movie funny.FINAL VERDICT: A teen film with some laughs, a good choice if nothing else is on.
this was still no jackpot. The movie offers nothing new and the conn is difficult to follow in the beginning. I was confused as to what was going on. You need to watch it twice to follow how they are setting up the casino. I liked it better the second time watching it because it made sense then. But any movie you have to watch twice just to understand what is going on is not what I would call good movie. This time around Danny and his gang are after Willy Banks. Banks two timed their friend Rueban causing him to have a heart attack. So, they want payback by sabotaging Banks' casino opening. Their plan is to rig all the games so everyone is a winner. Then to get all out of the door before they gamble the winnings back to the casino. Rigging slots, craps, roulette sounds impossible right; well not when you are super cool George Clooney and Brad Pitt. They also must find a way to snatch Banks' 5 diamond necklaces worth 1/4 billion.All the players are back except Julie Roberts and Catherize Zeta Jones. Ellen Barkin and Al Pacino are the new addition to the cast. They were OK.The conn just didn't seem spectacular, nor was there a lot of action. There were a few funny parts that if were missing would make this a bad film.FINAL VERDICT: OK, if you like the first two, then you'll like this.
This was a worthless piece of movie making. Who cares about what happened with the queen and the royal family the week Diana died. Sure Helen Mirren looked the part of the Queen and I guess did a good job. I don't really know since you never here the Queen talk in public, at least in America you don't. No one knows what was said behind closed doors, so this can't be an actually detailed movie of all the facts. The queen is basically portrayed as being indifferent when Diana died and wanting it to be a private affair not public. She was portrayed as cold by the media and forced to support a public funeral to appease the Princess's fans. Her husband even says things like "you hated Diana" toward the queen. That's probably true.But the point is this movie is just dull and certainly did not deserve to be nominated for best picture. I'm glad I didn't pay to see it.FINAL VERDICT: Not good. Sure the acting is descent, but the movie is pointless. Who cares how the royal family handled Diana's death.
This movie sucked. It was hard to tell it was even related to the Terminator series. The story and writing was horrible. They even had Bale saying "I'll be back." Was that supposed to be funny? Also, at one time they say that Kyle Reese is number 1 target of Skynet and John Connor was number 2. So how come the machines capture Kyle, yet don't kill him. And when Connor fights the t800, why doesn't the machine just bash his head in. The absolute worst fight. John Connor's wife served no purpose. Why didn't they just hire a no name actress for the role.Also, they made this film pg 13, taking away all the cool things the machines could do.FINAL VERDICT: A horrible sci fi movie.
I thought this movie was horrible. It wasn't funny; it was boring. The lead character just wasn't interesting. And if you are going to use such a ridiculous plot; then it needs to be funny, and this wasn't. Maggie Q was the only interesting person in this; and mainly because I remember her from the last Die Hard movie. She even uses some of the same moves.I just didn't find ping pong appealing. Fighting to the death over ping pong; just didn't get it. Christopher Walken wasn't even too interesting in this.FINAL VERDICT: One of the worst films of the year.
according to this movie. There are these 2 dumb guys, Dwayne and Chavis, whom decide they need 100 grand to hire a guy to kill Dwayne's dad. So, they come up with a brilliant idea of kidnapping a guy, put a bomb on him, and get him to rob a bank to get the money.So, they decide the pizza delivery guy, Nick, is the perfect choice. Nick gets his friend, Chet, involved and they end up robbing the bank like there's nothing to getting caught. Then of course there's all this distrust and trying to get the money and the code to disable the bomb. Just a bunch of silliness.FINAL VERDICT: It's got some humorous parts and has a very short running time. Worth catching on cable.
I thought this movie was barely OK. Many movies have been made about a virus that kills people or turns them into zombies. Here the virus turns the towns folk crazy, and they start randomly killing people. The movie starts out good with a scene on the baseball field. A man walks onto the field with a gun. The sheriff, David, tells him to drop the gun and assumes he's drunk. The man never says anything but David is forced to shoot when he won't drop the gun. Later that night, he's called to a house fire where a fan locked his family in a closet and set the house on fire. Soon, the town is evacuated by the military; people with fevers are separated. David's wife, Judy, is separated from him. He is taking to a truck stop on the outskirts of town and he elects to go back into town to rescue her. This is where there is a huge plot hole. A man tells David that there are roadblocks set up and anyone trying to go through is shot. The next scene, David is at the sheriff's office. How did he get there and all of a sudden his deputy shows up.Next scene his wife is tied down at the high school fixing to get it from a crazy and just in time, David shows up to save her. How did he get there when he had no vehicle. I did not like that plot hole.So, the rest of the film is them trying to survive and escaping and killing some crazies along the way.FINAL VERDICT: If you like cheesy horror films, then check it out.
This is a really good movie. It has a funny, entertaining plot. Emma Stone, plays Skeeter, a privileged white girl that attends all the functions and is popular with all the other girls in town. She wants to be a writer and comes up with an idea to write a book with tales from the town's maids. The story takes place in Mississippi at a time when it was illegal to even think about civil rights. So, Skeeter meets the maids in secret.So, the book is about the stories and how Skeeter is ostracized for not being as racist as most people in town. It's just original.FINAL VERDICT: A must see
This movie was hard to understand. At times it seemed to be a comedy and at other times a dark satire. Ed Norton was good playing twins. One was Bill, an educator from up north, and the other a pot selling hill billy named Brady. Brady tricks Bill into coming back to Oklahoma by saying he died. But what Brady really wants is Bill's help in getting him out from under a drug lord. Brady has been selling and growing lots of weed and wants out. He wants to use his twin as an alibi while he takes care of business. Then Brady and his sidekick do something totally out of character when confronting the drug lord. That's when the movie jumped the railroad tracks. It got really absurd from there.FINAL VERDICT: OK, but not good enough to recommend.
The problem with this movie is there isn't a lot of excitement, little happens. I don't know how much is true and how much is just added on by the writer, but there isn't a lot of drama. This is more like a lifetime TV movie.It's the story of what Walt Disney had to do in order to get the rights to Mary Poppins. The writer, PL Travers, is very particular, doesn't want animation, wants the house to look like her vision, no color red, no facial hair, etc. And Disney must comply to get the rights to the film. Toward the end, she warms up to the writers and creators of the film. And intertwined throughout is flashbacks of Travers child hood, with her drunk father and depressed mother. I don't know why this was included, it wasn't a movie about the life of Travers.FINAL VERDICT: Very slow moving, many will get easily bored. So unless you like boring movies, skip it.
This kids movie was cuter than I expected. It's basically what happens when animals get revenge. Dan Sanders moves his family to Rocky Springs, a protected forest. His greedy boss wants to turn it into a housing development. The forest animals don't want to lose their turf, so they drive Dan crazy. Crows peck at the windows, skunks smell up him and his car, and the leader, a raccoon, is out to drive him crazy. Soon his family thinks he's nuts, but eventually they see the animals at work when the greedy boss shows up. And there's a cute ending.FINAL VERDICT: I think 10 year olds will like it and it's still OK if you are older.
watch this. This movie was OK, but the middle moved quite slow. Then it throws in a sad, depressing twist ending.The movie is about two young people falling in love. First, there is Ally, a daughter of a cop, who saw her mother murdered when she was young. Then there is Tyler, whom has no real direction in life. He's just mad because his rich dad, Charles, pays little attention to him or his sister. And he had a brother that committed suicide. Charles, played by Pierce Bronson, was the best character in this. His story was more interesting.Ally's dad arrests Tyler and his friend. They see Ally with her dad and decide to "play" with her to get back at her dad. Tyler is to date her then do something like dump her. But it turns out he really likes her so a romance starts. The film focuses more on Tyler and his dad and him trying to get his dad to pay more attention to the younger sister. Then there is the twist ending put in to make you cry.The acting was just OK. I didn't think Rob Pattinson nor Emilie de Ravin had that much chemistry.FINAL VERDICT: It's good enough to check out on cable.
I kind of thought this movie sucked. The plot was pretty bad. Lucian, whose half human and half wolf, is a slave of the head vampire, Viktor. He's also having an affair with Viktor's daughter, Sonja, which of course is forbidden. Then there was something about Lucian making a key to unlock his collar, how did he make a key to do that? And way, that is forbidden, so Viktor punishes him with beatings. Lucian and some other prisoners escape and come back to the castle to rescue the others and take Sonja with him.The special effects were not good. They were shown without much light, making it hard to even tell what was happening. The blood was so fake. And the transformations from human to wolf were not creative. And why didn't the werewolves fight the vampires as a werewolf instead of human form. And the vampires never transformed into anything or even use their powers. It was silly.FINAL VERDICT: Lousy story, I would skip it.
you may think this movie is great or if you are in to high fashion. Otherwise, it is difficult to relate to people who think having the latest Chanel boots or Valentino dress is of the utmost importance. I don't live in New York or go to fashion shows, so I didn't think the story was all that entertaining. Plus, I was expecting more comedy, but this movie is pretty much a straight forward drama. Plus, I don't like how they take the lead actress, Anne Hathaway, and continuously describe her as fat and hideously dressed. I mean, she is an actress, so is quite good-looking, but not skinny as a model. I think that sends a bad message to 12 year old girls who will watch this.Streep was great as Miranda Priestly, the tough nosed editor and boss who requires her assistants to do the impossible. Any one who could survive her could handle any job. I was disappointed in that Miranda never really seemed to change to be a little kinder in the end. I kept expecting that to happen. And I didn't like how Andie basically let her boyfriend go like that and hooking up with the first guy she meets in her new circle of friends. And Andie even lets all the high fashion get to her and starts acting like it is so important. So, I guess I was expecting the lead character, Andie, to be more sympathetic, but she wasn't.FINAL VERDICT: It was OK, but it is definitely a drama and doesn't really have comedy thrown in. I recommend it only if you like Anne Hathaway or want to see all the cool clothes people wear in this.
The Eye was OK; the idea was nothing new, and it really didn't have any unique scenes that make you jump. Jessica Alba, whom is actually decent in this, plays Sydney a blind violinist that receives a corneal transplant. Once she can start to see, she starts seeing weird things, like fire, kids in the hall in her building, and dark shadows that appear to be leading people somewhere. She sees a specialist, Paul, whom tries to convince her that her mind is getting used to sight again and all those things aren't real. When she walks through a lady and goes into a diner that suddenly is a burned out empty store, she is convinced that she has to find out the donor of her eyes. Paul finally helps her out and they go to Mexico to find the donor's family. They learn from her mother that her daughter, the donor, had visions and would warn people of death. On the way back, they are stuck in traffic and Sydney finally figures out her visions were of the future and she is supposed to get people out of cars before a gas truck explodes.The creepiest scene is when Sydney looks in the mirror and sees a different face staring at her.FINAL VERDICT: It was OK. It had a few scary scenes. I recommend it for horror fans.
is what I thought this movie was about. It had its moments with Vince Vaughn's dry humor and juvenile jokes. What I could have done without was all the cursing, trying to be adult humor rather than just being funny. In the movie, Ben Stiller plays Evan, a rather boring husband and manager of the local Costco. One night, his night guard is killed and he decides to form a neighborhood watch. 3 other guys decide to join and all are goofy. They catch some teens egging, which was funny. Then they find the dead old, mean guy and discover an alien in his yard. They learn aliens may be among them and get invited to a swinger's party. Then they learn the part Costco plays in it all.FINAL VERDICT: A silly humorous movie filled with juvenile jokes. If you like any of the actors, it's worth checking out.
I find it hard to hope that things work out for a couple of cheaters. Jane and Jake are a divorced couple that go to New York for their son's graduation. There, they start an affair. She is single, but he is married to a much younger woman whom wants another baby. They go back home to California and continue the affair. Things get more complicated when Jane begins to date her architect, Adam. After being stood up by Jake, Jane thinks she is finally done with him, but it's still not that simple.The actors did a good job in this, with Alec Baldwin having the best character. By the way, he needs to keep his shirt on.FINAL VERDICT: A romantic comedy for senior citizens. It was OK.
This movie was better than I expected since I knew it had gotten a lot of bad press when it was in theaters. However, it turned out to be pretty good. The film was written to be a comedy and it was sort of funny. I don't remember anything about the TV show and if it was funny. The story is about Tonto telling his tale to a little kid. We see how he met the Ranger and how he never wanted to kill anyone. Then the escape of the bad guy and chasing him throughout the film. Tonto was just in the film to be funny. He says the wrong brother lived and feeding a dead bird, just silly stuff. And at the end the action parts were good too with the famous music.FINAL VERDICT: If you want to watch an action film, then I recommend this.
Harrison Ford, who does about one movie a year, decided to pick this one. Why? The script was lousy, not to mention it is the exact same character he has played over and over again. And this so called thriller was rather boring. Not much action does not help a tired script. It gets bogged down with all this computer mumbo jumbo. And Ford is too old to be playing dad to a 7 year old.Overall, the acting was over-the-top and the story filled with plot holes. And who would have known an ipod could delete millions of dollars from secure bank accounts.FINAL VERDICT: Not very good. Ford needs to pick better scripts than this.
While the script to this movie may not be the best, Melissa Mccarthy manages to be very entertaining and funny on screen. The whole drug dealers and bounty hunter seemed so forced and thrown in and just poorly written. But Melissa and Jason Bateman were good on screen together and made me laugh. Her singing in the car was good and her punches to the throat were just funny.The ending was too perfect, I don't think they would be taking their children to jail.FINAL VERDICT: Pretty good comedy, I thought it had funny scenes but not the best story.
I thought this movie was awful. First of all, a supernatural gunslinger, that idea sounds awful to begin with. And then, it isn't even a western. The movie takes place in the south during the Civil War. It seems Hex was left for dead my Turnbull, a man that has chosen to attack civilians, hospitals, etc with his gang. Hex was brought back by Native Americans and this is where the supernatural part comes into play because he can now talk to the dead. And these scenes are not very good. They have the dead person come to "life".Hex has becomes a bounty hunter and believes Turnbull to be dead. However, he is not and is planning to attack the government. So, the President hires Hex to hunt Turnbull down. So Hex eventually finds him through a series of boring events. Then to through in a female presence, Megan Fox plays Hex's favorite prostitute and she kicks a little #ss in the end. And the overall ending is really bad.FINAL VERDICT: Terrible, don't waste your time.
This movie was very simple and not imaginative. It was rather boring. And why was Michael C. Hall using the fakest southern accent ever? I kept seeing Dexter trying to pretend like he was from Alabama. In this movie the players are controlled by gamers. Hall is the billionaire that came up with the idea to use convicts to play real life and death games. Then people pay to control the man and try to survive. Survive 30 times and you win your freedom. So, Gerad Butler plays the most popular player and whom just needs a few more wins to be free. Some girl gives him the idea to escape, so he does and hunts down his wife and child.Most of this was just not interesting and the battles were fake looking and just not good.FINAL VERDICT: Don't waste your time.
This movie wasn't very good. It starts with the script that just wasn't very good. Then the lead actor, Jason Momoa, can't even hold a candle to Arnold's acting in the original. So, that's not very good.There was some OK battle scenes, and if you like blood flying everywhere, then there are some scenes for you. Plus one really gruesome scene of a young Conan trying to keep melted steel from falling on his father. That's just a horrible way to die. Then a damsel in distress gets thrown in, whom has very little to do. Then there is the mean and (ugly) witch, Marique, whom I still can't believe was played by Rose Mcgowan, totally unrecognizable.FINAL VERDICT: If you want to watch Conan, stick to Arnold's versions.
but not a lot happens. This isn't a space adventure. Some astronauts are out in space out of their shuttle working on something and nasa lets them know a satellite has been damaged and there will be flying debris. They don't get inside fast enough and get hit be the debris. Some die and two survive floating in space trying to get to the next orbiting satellite.Some more things happen and with the right amount of luck, one of the astronauts, Ryan, can make it back to earth.I didn't think it was that great of a role for Sandra Bullock, I'm surprised she was nominated. There just wasn't much for her character to do.FINAL VERDICT: Drifting and turning in space was cool, and it was a short, concise, story, just not that exciting. I'd recommend it if you want to see a slow moving drama.
The movie should have premiered on the lifetime movie network. The story line seemed perfect for that channel, not a theater release movie. SJP plays, Kate, a working mom juggling a promising career and her family. Issues involve her spending time with her kids and hubby and having to travel to New York for business. Kate is such a great person, you know she's not going to screw over her family for her hot business partner. And of course, she even sets him up with one of her friends.FINAL VERDICT: A movie about a working mom isn't anything great. It's not really funny, but has a few cute moments. But don't go out of your way to watch it.
This movie turned out to be pretty good and not at all the snooze fest I was expecting. Renée Zellweger plays children's author Beatrix Potter. Miss Potter was born into a wealthy family in which woman were expected to find suitable husbands. Much to her mother's dismay, Beatrix turned down her suiters and spent most of her time drawing and writing stories. Beatrix finally gets one of her tales published and grows to like her publisher Norman Warne. He's not in a high enough social class to suit her parents, but they agree to allow her to marry him. But, first she has to come with them to their summer home at the lakes. And upon returning to London, may marry if she still wants to. Tragedy strikes in one of the most touching and saddest movie scenes I've seen. It was acted perfectly. Beatrix uses her money to buy a farm in the lake district as well as other property to preserve the beauty of the land. And she doesn't stay an Old Maid forever.I know the plot sounds boring. It did to me. But, the film is a lot more entertaining than it sounds.FINAL VERDICT: Give it a chance. It's a good drama.
equals a terrible film. And that is what the Ringer is. I never laughed once. I did give it a rating of 2 because it was not the worst movie of the year, but it certainly wasn't funny. And I'm someone who likes shows like South Park and does not get offended with politically incorrect material. But this just wasn't funny. The only scene I liked was when the priest, after hearing Steve's confession, bets money on him to win the special Olympics. It is just hard to get over what Steve does because it was so low, even if it was for a good cause. And I didn't like how he gets the girl in the end because I don't think anyone girl would forgive a guy for what he did. I was rooting for Lynn's slap because Steve so deserved it.FINAL VERDICT: I don't recommend it because I didn't think it was funny. Johnny Knoxville's Jack Ass films and TV show is what you should watch if you want some laughs.
I like war movies to begin with, so I liked this movie, but I didn't think it was anything special. The movie follows a bomb squad during their last weeks in Iraq. So, since they are disarming bombs, there's not a lot of fighting or blood. It's mainly about one soldier, James, whom seems to have a death wish, putting his life and others at risk. He disobeys orders, which he would have been court marshalled for that, but not so in the film.The movie is supposed to have lots of suspense, which I didn't think it did. Sure, you would be nervous if a bomb would go off unexpectedly, but you figure, since this is a movie, not everyone will make it.FINAL VERDICT: I think people whom also like war movies should see this.
this movie wasn't about the interesting part. The story was rather boring. The costumes were very appealing as well as the make up. In this version, Elizabeth is battling Spain. Spain is trying to conquer the world. King of Spain, Phillip is Catholic, and Elizabeth is protestant. Elizabeth has a crush on Sir Walter Releigh whom has returned from the New World. She becomes highly upset when learning one of her court maidens is having his baby. Also, Elizabeth survives an assignation attempt by rival Mary Stuart, whom wants the throne. The conclusion is the famous battle between the Spanish Armada and the Brits.FINAL VERDICT: Not that great. Only for history buffs.
This movie reminded me of those grindhouse films; it's also written to be sort of like a black comedy. It features plenty of gore and nudity. You got hands being blown off at close range and bullets put threw knees that is very gruesome, even a bullet threw the eye.Nick Cage plays Milton, a dad who escaped from hell to get revenge on his daughter's killers and save his grandchild. The Accountant is chasing him; he is a sort of collector, bringing souls back to hell. Milton courts Piper along for the ride, after rescuing her from her abusive boyfriend. So, there's just a lot of sick stuff the rest of the way. The Accountant does some amazing things with a coin! FINAL VERDICT: It was OK, if you like the Grindhouse movies and ones like Machete, you'll like this.
Just so you know, this is one of those tear jerker movies at the end. I guess it's predictable, but still sad. But I just didn't buy the romance between Lane(Adrienne) and Gere's(Paul) characters. After about 4 days in which they spend the night through a bad special effects hurricane and a town social, the 2 have supposedly fallen so in love that it's changed their lives. Paul is able to go to his patient's husband and say he's sorry she died and is ready to make up with his son in South America. And Adrienne gets the courage to set out on her own and not take her cheating husband back. After Paul leaves, Adrienne is shown reading many letters from him and the two seem to be destined to be together when he returns. Of course, things don't always work out.Lane and Gere aren't given much to work with. Also, the cinematography should have been much better since this is set along the Outer Banks. We could have had some pretty sunsets and beach walks. But even that was not done well.FINAL VERDICT: If you want a chick flick that has a sad ending, then this is for you.
This movie really wasn't that great. First, it is to easy to guess what happened to Sophie when she is seen riding off slumped over on her horse by Inspector Uhl. If a movie is about illusion, then doesn't it make sense her death is another illusion.What I didn't like is the movie makes no attempt to explain Eisenheim's magic tricks. It makes him seem like a warlock. How did he make the "spirits" appear? And this is more of a love story. Eisenheim love's a girl above his social class. He is forbidden to see her as a boy. He eventually travels the world and learns his craft. He comes back to win her over. Only problem is she is to marry the crown prince. She can't leave him because the prince would hunt them down and kill them. So, Eisenheim must come up with a plan to keep the prince from trying to find them.FINAL VERDICT: The illusions performed were just to much on the supernatural side. Plus Ed Norton is too old to play Jessica Biels' love interest. I didn't think they had much chemistry.
I think some of these reviews are being too hard on Tammy. Sure it's not the best, but I found it amusing. Melissa Mccarthy plays her usual crass, swearing, and crazy character in Tammy. In this movie, she loses her job, goes on a road trip with alcoholic grandma, meets a guy, and gets closer with her granny.I thought Tammy getting fired and messing with the hamburgers was pretty good, as well as robbing the fast food place and getting her pies, and leaving the jail with her dad was funny. You have to find it at least amusing.FINAL VERDICT: It was OK, if you like white trash comedies, you should like this.
This movie was under 90 minutes long and could have been much shorter if the first 30 minutes had been cut out. The first part of the movie moved very slowly and not much happens. There was only enough plot to make this one of those short films that lasts half hour.The movie is about a young, rich businessman, Clay, whom has a bad heart. He marries his girlfriend on a whim and then gets news they have a heart for his transplant. While on the operating room table, he can still hear and his mind is awake. He overhears a conspiracy between the doctors and his new wife. His mother is about the only one he can trust. The plot twist is what his mother decides to do once she hears the transplant failed. It was rather sad.FINAL VERDICT: Not very thrilling. It was OK but needed a better script.
this movie is for you. Just watch the last 20 minutes and you will be happy if that's what you like; otherwise, I would suggest skipping the last part of this film. It was pretty gross. The movie centers around Ronnie, head of mall security. He swears a lot, threatens the Arab looking mall worker, gets his coffee from the reborn again virgin, and has the hots for perfume girl, Brandi. He also tries to become a real policeman, but fails the psych test when he admits he's bipolar and won't take his medicines. He has fantasies about using a semi automatic weapon.There really wasn't too much that was funny about this. About the only thing I liked was Anna Farris, whom I think is funny. And as I mentioned, the last 20 minutes is just nasty.FINAL VERDICT: I'd definitely skip this.
This was one of the better films I've seen in a while. It begins with Gerard, playing Clyde, an average family man. His home is invaded and his wife and daughter are killed. Jamie Fox plays the prosecuting attorney, Nick. The robber, Darby, whom did the killings testifies against the other guy. Darby gets a light sentence, while the other guy gets lethal injection. Clyde is very upset the one who did the killing got away.Jump 10 years ahead and the execution is taking place. Something goes wrong with the lethal injection and investigation begins. Soon they are after Darby, but Darby is a set up. Clyde has vengeance on his mind and takes care of Darby in a very gruesome manner. We now know Clyde is more than an average man. The rest of the movie is a game he plays with Nick. How is he still doing the killing while in jail? And the answer to the whole thing was a really good twist I didn't see coming.FINAL VERDICT: Check it out but don't read any spoilers beforehand.
I don't know why the industry keeps letting Bay make movies filled with car chases, loud noises, and explosions. Those things are not required to make an entertaining film. A good script is what is important. And this movie does have a good setup. We are introduced to people who are told that the whole earth was contaminated and they are the survivors. They are sequestered and have "guards" but are allowed to work, exercise, party. The one thing they have to look forward to is winning the lottery and going to the island. It doesn't take long to figure out something sinister is going on. Two "clones" learn the truth and escape only to be relatively lost in the real world. They search for their counterpart and eventually decide to save everyone like them.I thought the story made sense. But it was filled with ridiculous car and motorcycle chases. Plenty of loud noises and explosions. All which don't add to the film. They just make it more unoriginal. There is even the silly love scene between Lincoln and Jordan. What did Jordan watch some porn while waiting for Lincoln and that's how they knew what to do? FINAL VERDICT: I recommend it. I thought it was entertaining even if silly in parts.
hardly anything happens in this. So much of the honeymoon could have been shortened to make the final book one movie. Of course, I know it was for the mighty dollar, but can the people whom make these movies at least try to put out a good product.The first 40 minutes is the wedding and Jacob upset about it. Then the next third is Bella and Edward on their honeymoon in Brazil and the unnatural fetus. Then the last third is them back home and Bella is very sickly because the baby is killing her. And the wolves want the baby dead because it could be a danger to them. But they can't kill Bella while she is still human. And Jacob decides he would rather turn on his kind and do what he can to protect Bella.And this is all the happens besides the very end where we have the birth. The whole book could have been made in a 2 and half hour movie with the birth happening half way through.FINAL VERDICT: I just don't get the popularity of these movies. I haven't thought any of them are very good. I haven't read the books either. They must be a whole lot better. Well if you have devoted time to watch the other Twilight movies, then you might as well as see this one and final.
too bad Kate Bosworth can't hold her own. She was boring as Lois Lane, not enough personality and not good chemistry with Routh. I liked Kevin Spacey as Lex and Parker was good as Kitty. She had some of the best lines from the film.I've read some of the reviews that complain about the story. I thought the story was pretty good and made sense. But, I will agree it's silly that Lex Luther got out of a life sentence because Superman didn't show up at court when his parole hearing came up in less than 5 years.The one part that I thought was a big mistake was Superman flying an island of crystal/kryptonite into outer space. I thought being near kryptonite weakened him till he can barely stand. But, his hands are within inches of kryptonite as he lifts it up. Still don't get that stunt.But, I really liked it showing Superman flying into fire and stopping bullets with an eye. Cool special effects.FINAL VERDICT: Worth seeing, even if you aren't a comic book freak, which I'm not. I hardly remember even seeing the first Superman, but I still enjoyed this one.
This movie was OK, but there was nothing really new about it. The best thing going for it was there are 2 big name actors in it. And Denzel Washington is usually good, even if the script isn't that great. Denzel plays Frost, rogue CIA agent turned informant, selling info to the highest bidder. In Cape Town, he is being hunted and seeks refuge at the US building even though he knows he is a wanted man. So, he's arrested and taken to a safe house, while hiding a computer file that a lot of people want. There he teems up with Matt, a young agent, after the safe house is ambushed. They help each other survive. So the rest of the movie is them on the run and Matt trying to keep Frost in his custody. Plus, Matt soon learns he can't trust some in the CIA and learns some valuable skills in staying alive.FINAL VERDICT: OK, but nothing to unique or exciting. It's an easy way to waste 2 hours.
I thought this movie was sweet. I definitely think kids would love it because it stars an independent little girl, who must defend her island. She has help from her animal friends, like sea lions, pelicans, and lizards. She lives on the island with her dad. Her dad is caught up in a storm and stranded at sea. Nim is by herself waiting for him. Her only contact is by email with famed writer Alex Rover. What Nim doesn't know is that Alex is really Alexandria, a lady whom is far from adventurous. She is afraid to leave her apartment. But Nim's plea for help is enough to get her to leave San Franciso and find the tiny little island in the South Pacific. Alex has a rough time getting there and finally has an adventure that she loves to write about. And being a kid's movie, you know there is a happy ending with Nim's dad.One of the good things about this film is there is quite a bit of comedy. I even found it funny at a time.FINAL VERDICT: I think a lot of adults will like this too.
I didn't think this movie did a good job at describing a geisha. I still don't get was a geisha supposed to be an escort or a sometimes prostitute or an entertainer. The story revolves around a girl sold who becomes one of the top geishas in Japan. She's coached how to walk, dance, use a fan, be a companion for men. I guess the men paid her and her "mother"(the lady who owned the geisha house) although that is never shown. She has a rival who spreads lies about her and tries to steel clients, but the "mother" still picks her to inherit all. The rival gets jealous, causes a fire, and is kicked out. This whole time Sayuri has loved the Chairman but they have been kept apart by circumstances. But things work out at the end.One thing I had a hard time getting over was they all spoke English. I mean, if you wanted to make a realistic film, it should have been subtitled. And I didn't think the story was all that entertaining. There was probably a lot more in the book that was left out.FINAL VERDICT: OK, but I was expecting more from such a long drama.
The main problem with this movie was that it lasted too long. It was also very predictable, which leads to being boring. Basically, couple seems happy, couple has problems, couple breaks up, couple realizes it's a mistake, couple gets together again. This concept is nothing original.Tom is an up and coming chef in San Francisco whom gets engaged to Violet. Violet decides she wants to go to grad school in Michigan. So of course, Tom is going to resent giving up his career in San Francisco to move to Michigan. He can only get a job at some rinky dink restaurant, while Violet finds success in her studies. She's got a professor after her, which leads to complications. Also, Tom and Violet keep finding reasons to put off the wedding. Mainly it's jealously of careers that drives them apart, but in the end they realize they were wrong and do what they should have done after getting engaged.FINAL VERDICT: Too long, nothing great, skip it.
I have not been real impressed by the previous Bourne movies, and this one was no exception. The best part of the movie was that the plot actually made sense this time and could be followed. Most of the action is car chasing scenes. And there are a few and they are shot very well. They look realistic. Bourne also gets to engage in hand combat with another asset and that was some fight. Nicky Parsons shows up again and is involved a little with the plot then just gets on a bus and leaves. What was the point in that? Bourne goes from Europe to America searching for his identity and what happened to him. He finds out some surprising answers and gets revenge on those in charge.FINAL VERDICT: It wasn't anything great, but I'm sure if you liked the other Bourne movies, you will want to see this.
I was surprised at how awful this film was considering it won and got nominated for a lot of awards. I mean, I think the movie where Lincoln battles vampires was better than this.This was one of the most boring films I have ever seen and it was just so long. The one high light was Daniel Day Lewis, whom definitely deserved the acting awards. He was very good and looked just like how Lincoln is portrayed. But the whole political process about getting slavery abolished was just so boring in this boring. The history channel could do a documentary on this subject and make it much more interesting.FINAL VERDICT: I think this movie is just too boring for most people, not worth your time.
I really don't remember anything about Arnold's Total Recall because it has been such a long time since I've seen it, so for me, this was basically a new movie. And I thought it was OK for a popcorn action flick. The special effects were good, with the flying cars, the buildings in the air. So, most of earth's land has been destroyed and there are 2 sections left, Federation of Britain and the Colony. The Federation wants to overtake the smaller Colony and move some of its people there. Colin Ferrell plays, Doug, a worker from the Colony, but later we learn he used to work for the federation and all his memories are lies. That's when the chase starts and he is "hunted" by his not really wife, Lori, and gets into all these fights. He finds Melina whom he sort of remembers and it's up to them to save the Colony.FINAL VERDICT: It's watchable, good special effects, I think 20 somethings will like it.
is why you didn't care if he found what he was looking for. The main flaw with this movie is that the kid, Oskar, was down right mean and cruel at times. So I didn't care if he got what he was looking for because he was such a brat. He would cuss out the doorman, be rude to his mom, and sneak around. Also, the movie was about 30 minutes too long.The story is Oskar finds a key that he thinks belonged to his dad that died during the 911 tragedy. So he sets out to track down what the key unlocks. His only clue is the word black was on the envelope the key was in and a few clips cut out by his dad. So he tracks down people with the last name Black. His grandmother has a mute as a renter that helps him out some. Then the renter leaves one day, so it was a dumb storyline. Oskar finally finds out about the key but it wasn't what he was looking for.FINAL VERDICT: OK, but the ending was bad. It should have been a lot better.
This isn't one of Adam Sandler's best comedies. He's back to playing the stupid guy. In this one, he plays a firefighter named Chuck whose a real ladies man. His good friend, Larry, a fellow firefighter, needs a benefactor since he didn't do anything to resolve the matter when his wife died years ago. So, he asks Chuck to pretend he's gay and marry him for insurance reasons. That right there is a really silly idea in itself. There lawyer, Alex, is a hottie played by Jessica Biel. Of course Chuck really likes Alex and she's the one to change his bed hopping ways. But first him and Larry must convenience the investigator they are gay and this isn't a scheme. Only problem is most of what is supposed to be funny really isn't with the gay jokes, etc... I just don't care for a comedy portraying gay rights like it's this great thing.Also, Jessica Biel is really in this for one scene only in which she strips to her undies and is on camera a while. That's probably more offensive than anything.David Spade does have a really good cameo in a bunny suit.FINAL VERDICT: Not one of Sandler's best. I don't recommend it.
bad language are 2 key ingredients for a good film. I thought this movie was pretty good and didn't need all the f bombs and what not thrown in. Keanu Reeves, plays Tom Ludlow, and he is a bad cop (sort of). Forrest Whitaker, plays Captain Wander, his boss and he's running the show. In the first 15 minutes, Ludlow goes into some Korean crack house, blows them away, and saves 2 kidnapped girls. And Wander helps to make his story stick, that he was fired on first.Another cop, Washington, thinks Ludlow and Wander are dirty and is talking to internal affairs. One day, Ludlow follows Washington to a store intent on smacking him around. But 2 thugs show up with guns and blow Washington away. Ludlow accidentally shoots Washington too, which leaves a big mess for him in the investigation. He starts hanging out with Diskant, the detective on the case, who feeds him some story about Washington being corrupt and selling police confiscated dope. And his murder was a business dealing gone bad. Is all of this true? Or is someone trying to cover up a bigger story? Ludlow really does feel bad Washington was killed and is intent on finding the killers. But what he finds is a bigger story and corruption that runs deeper than he thought.FINAL VERDICT: I thought it was entertaining. And I like Reeves and Whittaker. The only thing I could do without is the cussing. It didn't need to be that much and when it's like that, it's distracting. I recommend it only for adults.
I don't think this movie had an original idea; all of it was stolen from other films. Two guys chase deados with silly looking guns, does it remind you of 2 guys chasing aliens with silly looking guns. Then as in Ghost, the 2 guys look different to the living.Jeff Bridges, Roy, does his cowboy routine, this time playing it for laughs. And Ryan Reynolds, Nick, is his partner, the rookie. What little plot there is involves Nick finding out why his police partner, Hayes, killed him for gold. It turns out it's magic gold that can some how destroy the world. But you really don't need to no any more because the movie is about special effects. And the last fighting scenes just had to much going on to be entertaining. You couldn't follow anything, not good.FINAL VERDICT: I don't care for movies that copy everything from other films. Skip it.
I know I've seen the original film, but I don't remember anything about it. But just from this film, I'd have to say it's more horror than humor. It's an OK movie, nothing great, but entertaining enough for 100 minutes.Colin Farrell, plays Jerry, the vampire that moves next door to Charley and his mom. Charley's high school friends spy on Jerry, but disappear before they can reveal what they found. But Charley finds some video tape exposing Jerry for what he is. It doesn't take Jerry long before he knows he's been had and he starts "smoking" out Charley. Then it's a chase between Charley and his girlfriend and this vampire showman they find, Peter Vincent.So, there's some OK special effects. Jerry's face turns into a monster, then there's the ending back at Jerry's house.FINAL VERDICT: OK, fun film.
This was J-Lo's first movie in quite a few years. That's because she can't act and can't carry a movie. She's so famous for showing up to awards shows in all these sexy outfits and waring a ton of makeup, she just isn't believable as a loser in love middle age pet store owner. Now, I liked Alex O'Loughlin as Stan, but he didn't have much chemistry with Zoe,played by Lopez. It was rather annoying how Zoe just expected Stan to be OK with her pregnancy after lying to him about it for several weeks. Then she wants to just shack up with him. And it wasn't very funny. I just don't see 2 40 year olds getting in a water fight after setting the table on fire. It just seemed like what younger people would do.FINAL VERDICT: I wouldn't pay to see it.
tied into the very first Final Destination movie. In this one, Sam has a vision of a bridge collapsing and he and some of his co workers die. It's pretty good special effects. So Sam and 7 others survive the accident by getting off the bridge in time and now death is after them. So they begin dying just like in the other movies of this franchise, meaning in really weird unbelievable ways.In this installment, it's a little different because they think if they kill someone else, then they will take their place and death will skip them. So that leads to some back stabbing at the end.(SPOILER) The movie ties into the first one because Sam and his girlfriend, whom survived, board a flight for Paris, which turns out to be the same plane that went down in the first film.FINAL VERDICT: More of the same, but good enough for 90 minutes of mindless entertainment.
the only part I didn't get was why have Paul talk to the audience at home every once in a while and then the whole rewind time with a remote. That should have been left out.The film starts out with a family on their way to their vacation home. They are listening to classical music and all of a sudden punk rock starts blaring. Cool.They pass their neighbors and say hi, there are 2 guys with them whom they say are friends. Soon, one of the guys comes over to borrow eggs. Before long, things get out of hand. It turns out the 2 guys are very polite psycho paths. They use mind games to torture the family and finally end up with a gun. It was very sadistic and a great thriller.FINAL VERDICT: a great thriller, a highly recommend.
I had never heard of Percy Jackson before watching this movie, so I know nothing about the books. Therefore, I thought it was a good, entertaining movie. I thought it was much better than the Harry Potter films; however, I have read the Potter books, so I know how much the films left out.I liked how Percy found out about his powers and Grover added laughs as the side kick. The confrontation with Medussa was cool as well as the Lotus casino. I thought they were neat ideas. The underworld could have been spruced up a little more with graphics, but it was OK. And the lighting bolt could have had some more power. But the movie made sense to me and I liked the plot.FINAL VERDICT: Definitely recommend for fantasy adventure lovers.
happy ending. The story centers around narrator, Henry, and his mother Adele. Adele has become withdrawn and depressed because of losses in her life. One day on the monthly trip to the store, they run into Frank that more or less pushes his way into their car. Frank is an escaped murderer yet has a heart of gold. This is where it gets unbelievable, because you have a killer, and we never learn about his background, and he becomes the man that Adele always wished she had. And he does this by cooking elaborate meals, especially a peach pie. And by being kind to a mentally challenged child and teaching Henry how to throw a baseball.All of this happens over Labor Day weekend, and by Monday, Adele is ready to run off with Frank. On Tuesday, things happen which prevent this and Frank is back to jail and has more time because of kidnapping charges. But he finally gets out of jail and hooks up with Adele again. How unbelievable and gullible does Adele seem to be.FINAL VERDICT: It's a good story, I just don't believable a woman with her son would run off with a murderer after knowing him 3 days. It's basically a sappy love story.
I finally saw this movie and it was basically a waste of 2 hours. To be fair, I just don't really care for the Iron Man idea, Spiderman and Batman are much better ideas.But there's just a lot of explosions and computer special effects. Plus Tony Stark is too weird and boring, the part with him getting drunk at the party and the colonel using one of the Iron Man suits was just boring and too long. The only part I liked was the first fight between Ivan and Tony. The electrically charged cables were a cool weapon. And Gwenyth Paltro is just a waste. She's so boring in these movies.FINAL VERDICT: I don't really like Iron Man any way, so I don't recommend it, but I'm sure a lot of people liked this.
I was disappointed in this movie. I was expecting a some what serious action adventure movie, sort of like Indian Jones. Instead this movie had some of the silliest visual effects and dialog; it was like it was made as a kid's film.Brandon Frazier is miscast as a scientist whom lost his brother 10 years ago. His nephew is coming to stay with him for 10 days. He gets a break in his geological research and he decides to go to Iceland to investigate. He thinks there may be something to the book Journey to the Center of the Earth. Him and his Nephew, Sean, meet up with a hot mountain guide, Hannah, whom is taking them to retrieve a box that has collected data. A lightning storm strikes, and the 3 run into a cave and are trapped by falling rocks. Now they have to find a way out, and discover the place that the book JTTCOTE talks about. It is just as the book describes. They go on an adventure across a sea, battle flying killer fish, dodge a T rex, and must find a way to shoot water out of a geyser before the lava reaches them.Now to the special effects; they were horrible. The worst part was the ride on the mine carts. It shows close ups of them talking. As if that was possible and jumping from cart to cart. The whole underground sea was also poorly done. It just all looked so fake. And the dialog was as if written by a 5 year old. And Brandon Frazier doesn't even seem to try to be believable.FINAL VERDICT: I'm sure kids would like it, but I didn't. I don't recommend it.
This movie was pretty bad. Nothing much happens. It's about a famous actor whom lives in a hotel, sleeps with a lot of women, and watches his daughter for a few days. There's no conflict, no drama, no action. But worst of all, there are scenes that should just last seconds that lasts minutes. Like, Johnny is sitting by the pool and camera just keeps focusing on him and gets a little bit closer. Or when he gets a mold made of his head. The camera just shows him sitting in a chair for a long time.His ex says she needs some time and leaves their daughter, Cleo, with him for several days until it's time to take her to camp. She goes with him to Italy where he's promoting his movie. But instead of taking Cleo to see the sights, most of it is attending awards and everything spoken is in Italian. We see Cleo playing in the private pool for 2 minutes. That didn't add anything to the story.A lot of the film is Johnny at parties and in the shower. Why's that important? Then the worst part is the ending. It resolves absolutely nothing and makes no sense.FINAL VERDICT: How did this get made. It's rubbish.
SNL skits do not make good movies. Hopefully this will be the last attempt. In the beginning, we are told Macgruber is the most decorative US soldier, with all these purple hearts and so forth. Well, during the movie he is portrayed as being a bumbling idiot. I guess that is supposed to be the joke, but it wasn't funny.This movie was rather offensive. It is a made for TV character and in this movie, they throw all this cussing and adult language that just doesn't go with the SNL Macgruber. That was a huge mistake. Who wants to hear a grown man tell other guys I'll >>>>(perform a certain act) or let you #### me if you'll do this for me. That was disgusting.Then there was the celery distraction. It definitely was very distracting. Ryan Phillippe must have hit rock bottom to be in this film. I know Val Kilmer has been on the slide, so I could see him in this but not Phillippe.FINAL VERDICT: Just a gross movie. Don't watch it.
I thought this movie was OK and it kept me entertained. I think I liked it better than the other Iron Man movies. In the movie, there is terrorist, the Mandarian, whom is waging war against the USA. He wants to get at the President. Tony Stark tells the Mandarian to bring it on. So his house gets attacked and he's on the hunt to figure out what is going on with mysterious explosions. Eventually we find out there is new technology that allows people to build up heat and they can shoot fireballs and melt things. Tony finally tracks down the Mandarian, and it turns out he is more of a joke. The real evil guy has of course kidnapped Pepper and Tony must find a way to destroy these heat retaining people.FINAL VERDICT: It was OK for a super hero film. Worth checking out on cable.
good acting but slow story. Phoenix plays, Leonard, a bipolar man that has moved back in with his parents after his engagement ended. He's depressed and messed up since we first see him trying to commit suicide. His father is selling the family business to a man that has a daughter that has interest in Leonard. Leonard also meets the pretty blonde neighbor, Michelle that is messed up sort of like him. So of course, he's drawn to her. Michelle is seeing a married lawyer that is her boss. She's hopeful he will leave his wife for her. Leonard doesn't care that he would have a more stable relationship with the other girl, Sandra. So, he chooses Michelle, but of course, it doesn't end how he wants. And he does a really weird thing at the end to try to fix his life.FINAL VERDICT: OK, but not really good enough to recommend.
I love the Harry Potter books but have thought the movies have been less that stellar. And this movie was probably the worst one yet because it was so boring. Hardly anything happens except we see Harry, Ron, and Herimone wondering throughout forests, graveyards, and old houses. A couple of fake looking snakes make an appearance. About half the film is them looking for a locket, the other half finding out how to destroy it. They should have just made a 4 hour TV mini-series out of this.FINAL VERDICT: If you've watched all the Potter movies, then you have to watch these last ones just to see how bad it can get.
I like movies that fall into this film genre. And I think 27 Dresses is not as good as a lot of them. The chemistry between Heigl and Marsden is not that great. Kate Hudson and Reese Witherspoon pull these date movies off a lot better. The dullness of the movie starts off with the topic of the movie weddings. That's been done quite a few times. Here, Heigl plays, Jane, a serial bridesmaid, but never the bride. She has the hots for her boss, but he's interested in her sister whom just moved back home. Jane meets Kevin at a wedding, and he tries contacting her. Kevin turns out to be a columnist for the paper, and his writing topic happens to be weddings. And he is using Jane to write a story. Once the story breaks, of course, she says he was lying to her, but in the end they get back together. No real suspense. And she really humiliates her sister at a party in front of everyone and we are supposed to root for her.FINAL VERDICT: Another romantic comedy about weddings just doesn't cut it when the topic has been done numerous times. The movie just isn't very unoriginal. I suggest skip it.
I didn't care for this movie since not a lot even happens. Basically, it's about 2 dysfunctional sisters. One played by Nicole Kidman, Margot, and other by Jennifer Jason Lee, Pauline. Pauline is marrying Malcolm, Jack Black. Margot and her son Claude have come to their home for the wedding. Margot doesn't like Malcolm from the beginning. He doesn't have a job and he looks slobish. Plot points revolve around the two sisters bickering, the guy Margot is having an affair with, 2 mean neighbors, Pauline's unexpected pregnancy, and Claude hanging out with a girl, Maisy.None of it was too interesting in my opinion. The only thing of note I can remember is Jack Black showing his #ss. Who wants to see that? Kidman was boring in this.FINAL VERDICT: Stay away.
Not a whole lot happens in this movie. It's about 2 American girls that go to Spain for the summer. They meet an artist, Juan Antonio. They are told he had a messy divorce in which his ex stabbed him. He invites them for a weekend in another town. Christina really wants to go and Vicky, whom is engaged, reluctantly goes. During the weekend, both end up sleeping with Juan. Upon returning to Barcelona, he begins an affair with Christina and Vicky is kind of fawning over him too but once her finance comes to Spain, and they get hitched, that ends. Juan's ex, Maria, shows up and moves in with him and Christina. They fight a lot but they start participating in threesomes. And eventually both girls go back to USA. That's it.BTW: the much talked about kiss between Scarlott and Penelope wasn't much at all. It was the only thing exciting the movie could advertise about. I certainly don't see how Penelope won an award for this role. The film was dull.FINAL VERDICT: Slow paced drama, I recommend skipping it.
This movie's story line wasn't too inventive. Quite a few films have come out about artificial intelligent computers. A woman calls two strangers, Jerry and Rachel, and gives them orders to evade police and collect mysterious boxes. We soon learn, the voice is from a computer developed by the army to track terrorists. The army goes against the computer's advice, so the computer determines that the US government is the top enemy. The only interesting thing in the plot is the reason the computer needs Jerry to complete its goal. It has something to do with the fact he was a twin.Billy Bob Thorton is in this playing the role that usually goes to Tommy Lee Jones. None of the actors are given much to work with. And Rosario Dawson is completely miscast. I don't think they could have found another actress less believable as a FBI agent.FINAL VERDICT: This movie is for conspiracy enthusiasts and computer geeks that love their cell phones. I don't necessarily recommend this unless you want to watch a popcorn flick.
Neeson's character, Bryan Mills, is referred to Rambo by some of his ex spy buddies in the beginning of the film. And as it turns out, he turns into a sort of Rambo later while trying to find his daughter. Neeson is not an action star, which was the main problem with this movie. It wasn't believable.Mills daughter, Kim, goes to Paris with a friend and gets kidnapped a few hours after arriving. It just so happens she is talking to her dad when the kidnappers strike. So Mills goes to Paris and all by himself he hunts down the Albanians and kills people left and right. Mills doesn't even ask any of his ex spy buddies to help out.Mills ex wife was the worst character. She lies to him to get him to sign the papers to let their daughter go; Plus she doesn't even seem concerned that her 17 year old daughter is going to Europe with one friend. Then when her daughter is kidnapped, she's not going nuts saying call the police. And the ending was terrible when Mills and Kim return home. Her dad just saved her from being a sex slave and she doesn't even want him to come home with her.FINAL VERDICT: It has some good action, but I think the lead actor was miscast. But still good enough to check out.
This has got to be one of Will Ferrell's worst films. It was just awful. Blades of Glory was much better and I didn't think that was a great comedy. Ferrell plays Jackie Moon, a has been singer whom now owns a basketball team. Not only is he the owner, he is also a player and the coach. Of course, he really doesn't know much about coaching except showing his players how to dance in animal costumes. The commissioner tells them that 4 teams from the league will be added to the NBA, and Moon's Tropics aren't one of them. But Moon insists that they should play the season out and the top 4 teams get to go to the NBA. So, now there is the stereotypical "bad news bears" team that all of a sudden starts winning and only needs one more win to reach the goal.Some jokes used are a bear fight, a hippie who wins a 10000 dollar shot but never gets paid, the alley-oop, etc.... Just not that funny.FINAL VERDICT: Don't assume this will be half descent since Ferrell stars in it. It is really a dud.
I thought Don Cheadle did a very good job as his character, Samir, a former US special ops soldier, whom was sent to Afghanistan and began taking up the Muslim cause. He was already of the Muslim faith and started to take the role of religion more seriously. We meet up with Samir in Yemen where he is negotiating an explosive deal with terrorists. It leaves the question, has he turned into a terrorist himself or is there reason behind it. "Hint, like some super secretive plot that only one CIA agent knows about; he's trying to infiltrate a terrorist cell so they can catch the leader." Samir gets caught with Omar, a higher up in the terrorist cell, and they are sent to prison. Omar is broken out and he takes Samir with him. Samir is trusted and helps organize some of the terrorists bombings. He is still being chases by FBI agent Clayton, but what Clayton doesn't know is that Samir is also trying to help him out.Samir with his guilt decides to take out the other terrorists on the boat at the end. Some how the FBI figure out he was really helping them and Samir stays out of jail.FINAL VERDICT: It had an OK plot, but not really unique. It was a little too long and some plot points took a while to develop. I suggest only seeing it if you are a fan of any of the main actors; otherwise, you may find it to boring.
sums up this movie. Holmes really comes up with some unbelievable answers, but if you can get over that, this movie was OK. The part that didn't work was all the kick @ss fighting Holmes and Watson do because I don't think that was really in the books.Downey was good as usual and Law was passable since he wasn't playing his usual character. Rachel Mcadams should have turned this role down because her character has very little to do and she was pretty much pointless through out the film. Considering you know Holmes is famous for figuring out impossible mysteries, it's safe to assume Lord Blackwood really isn't using supernatural powers. You just have to wait till the end for Holmes to give his ridiculous rant to how he did it all and fooled everyone.FINAL VERDICT: It was better than I expected, mainly because Robert Downey, Jr is so good. It's worth a viewing.
Too bad they couldn't come up with a decent script for this film since they spent 200 million on it. I thought the alien ships were cool, and cool gun fire, but the story was too lame.We have the screw-up, Alex Hopper, whom is dating the general's daughter, Sam, and his older top of the class brother, Stone. They are in the Navy, with Stone being a captain. Alex is close to being kicked out after they come back from an exercise. Well, aliens attack during this exercise. Alex is left to save the day, after having to take over as captain. And Sam and some army dude are trapped on the mountain top in which the aliens are using the satellites to communicate back home. The key to saving Earth is destroying the sats before they can use them.So, there's lots of action, cheesy one liners, and typical characters. It has its moments.FINAL VERDICT: The definition of a popcorn flick. Only watch if you don't want to use brain cells.
I think this movie was written for kids. It's too silly for adults to enjoy. The aliens are so silly in this,ie the big fish at the restaurant, and the jokes seemed to be geared for kids. And there is a sentimental lesson learned in the end.Agents J and K are back and J must go back in time to save K from an alien, which in turn, saves Earth. J teams up with a young K, whom has the same characteristics. Josh Brolin pulls off Tommy Lee Jones' accent perfectly. Also, J leans what great, sentimental thing K did for him when he was a kid.FINAL VERDICT: Make it a movie night for teens.
could be another title for this movie. District 9 is the name of the camps that millions of aliens have been sent to in Johanasburg, South Africa. It seems aliens arrived about 20 years ago and the humans put them in camps and control them. The aliens are called prawns because that means they are the lowest of the low.The movie is shot like a documentary. Government worker Wikus has been sent to get aliens to sign eviction notices. He picks up an alien cylinder that sprays him with black fluid. It begins to transform him. So, he's captured and this company wants to do experiments on him. He escapes and meets up with an alien whom may be able to help him. So the latter part of the movie is just year average chase film with explosions and such.FINAL VERDICT: It was OK, the aliens were good special effects and the story made sense. It's also got some nice kill shots for gore fans.
I thought this movie was terrible. First of all, there is no plot. Something about revenge but if you didn't watch Casino Royal right before, then it makes no sense. It's been over a year since I've seen Casino Royal, so I didn't remember much that carries on into this film. So Bond is after revenge for his girl's death from Royal and something about going to Bolivia and chasing a guy that is trying to buy much of Bolivia's water supply in order to get rich. He teams up with this chick, Camille, whom is after a general that killed her father. But she's not like a typical Bond chick because Bond doesn't get romantic with her.The way the action scenes were filmed was terrible. The camera was so shaky and just quick flashes; you couldn't even tell what was happening. And I don't like how this Bond is just out to kill people. Pierce Bronson's Bond was never like that. It makes him cold blooded and you don't want to root for him.FINAL VERDICT: I could barely make it through this movie, it was so boring because there is no story to follow. I don't recommend it.
This is by no means the best animated movie out (the Shrek films are a lot better), but it's entertaining enough. The film is shot like a documentary. It follows penguin, Cody, as he dreams of being a famous surfer. He's one of the best in Antarctica. A surf promoter comes along inviting Cody to a surfer competition. His chief competers are Tank, another larger penguin, and a chicken, named Joe. Cody is helped by lifeguard, Lani, who brings him home after he wipes out. It turns out Lani brings him to meet an elder penguin, who turns out to be the legendary Z. Big Z gives Cody some surfing lessons for the big competition. When the contest starts, Cody learns winning isn't everything and friends are more important.The movie had good computer animation, the waves looked very realistic. Also, it had its laughs. It told a story from start to finish, and did not run to long.FINAL VERDICT: Kids should like this and it's good enough that adults should be able to sit through it also.
I like the Resident Evil movies, but this was my least favorite one, mainly because there are hardly any zombies. Plus I didn't like them putting Alice back inside the hive. She has escaped the hive in a previous film and has been fighting the zombies on top. Now she's back underground and interacting in different environments underground, like a suburbia neighborhood, Tokoyo, Moscow, New York. Plus the Red Queen is back to trying to kill her and using clones and armies that aren't zombies but I'm still not sure if they were real people. Also, Alice has lost her powers from the previous film, except she can still do all the super human things when it comes to fighting. The story line just didn't flow together. Then it ends set up for the next film, which that part looked really cool.FINAL VERDICT: I'd wait till the next sequel comes out and just watch this and that one back to back.
I didn't like this at all. At least Thor was pretty good and had an excellent beginning. There wasn't anything I liked about this movie. First Chris Evans is not a lead actor. If I saw him in a commercial, I wouldn't know who it was. Second Captain America doesn't have any cool weapons or abilities. All he does is throw a shield around like a boomerang and can jump really high and long. Most of the story was just boring as it showed Steve Rogers joining the army, getting transformed into a big guy, then he goes around the country raising money. Over half the movie is about this.Then the bad guys are the Nazis, with the leader being a guy with a red head and no nose. He doesn't have any cool abilities either, just some neat gadgets like a gun that makes people disappear.FINAL VERDICT: The whole was just terrible. Not worth your time.
This movie was surprisingly good. Now days when you see Nic Cage starring in a movie, I usually think it's going to be a dud, but this was a good script. It's really creepy and that's what makes it good.Caleb's school is opening a time capsule and the letter he receives is a page filled with seemingly random numbers. His dad, John, takes a look at it one night and figures out the numbers actually mean something. They predict the day, location, and the number of people that die in some catastrophic event. He researches all the dates to events in history except for the final few because they haven't occurred yet. Then there is the really creepy whisper people that talk to his son. John goes to meet the daughter of the the woman that originally wrote the predictions and finds out her daughter is special too. So, they try to stop the last and final event from happening, and the ending really had me fooled. I was scared watching it; that's how creepy it was.FINAL VERDICT: highly recommend it
but that isn't enough to turn this movie into something special like the Lord of the Rings films. The special effects are very good, but the story wasn't all that. It felt to rushed and too much was put into a 100 minute movie. I'm sure a lot of things were left out from the book. Even the bad guys seemed like a copy cat from something from LOTR. And the princess in this had very little to do. What was the point.We see the evil King in the beginning, then he disappears from the rest of the film. The main bad guy is a sorcerer, Durza. He almost seems comical.FINAL VERDICT: Visually, the dragon was awesome, and the plot does make sense. But not enough happens and lot must have been left out of the book.
This version of the Wizard of Oz was new to me. I never new there was some kind of prequel to Dorthey. Oz, a conartist magician, escapes Kansas in a hot air balloon and lands in oz. Everyone assumes he is the wizard that the prophecy speaks of. He needs to kill the wicked witch in order to become king, but is sent after the good witch. The 2 witches that are sisters turn evil and want to destroy Oz and Glenda. Then the film drags and just too much action is going on and you can guess the ending.The 2 main complaints I have is the movie is too long and while the special effects were good, there was just too many of them going on at the same time.FINAL VERDICT: I'd skip it and only recommend it if you are a fan of one of the stars.
I hope this is the last of the Saw series. The franchise has been steadily going down hill from the genius of the first film. I'm glad they brought back Cary Elwes for this one.The film is filled with gore and blood as usual, but all the traps seem so rehashed. It's hard to keep coming up with different ideas to kill people in some kind of weird contraption. In this movie, the game is centered around a guy that got rich by writing a book about surviving jigsaw. It was all lies. He should have known Jigsaw would be coming for him.FINAL VERDICT: Only watch to final see the final chapter.
I have been a big fan of recent musicals; however, this one goes away from the norm, and it's just not as fun. The music and lyrics aren't as good. While visual, Sweeney Todd is quite spectacular with the dark sets and moonlit lightning. However, musicals like Moulin Rouge had much better costumes and visual effects.Johnny Depp was only OK; he isn't a great singer. This movie was fairly violent. Lots of blood squirting from gashes. The mince meat pies were more in the background and that idea could have been worked in better in the movie. I just felt the script could have been written better.FINAL VERDICT: OK, but disappointing as far as musicals go. I only recommend it for Depp fans.
This is a movie about high school girls getting even with the hottest guy in school, who happens to be dating all 3. The three girls team up with Kate, the new girl who is semi-hot but has yet to be noticed by everyone. They want Kate to date John and get him to fall in love and then break his heart. Kate also has some interest in John's older brother. The plan works a little to well because Kate starts to like John and not think he is such a bad guy. The girls play dirty tricks on John to try to embarrass him in front of the school. Some of the jokes are funny, but this was just a so-so movie. The idea is not something new.One flaw, every high school kid looked like they were in their mid 20s.FINAL VERDICT: OK, it has some funny parts, but I think it is definitely for the teen crowd.
I have seen the original film, and it was pretty good. This new version follows some parts of the original closely, while other parts it's completely different. But, the craziness of the Hitcher is the same in both films. In this version two college students agree to take John Ryder to a hotel. Along the way, Ryder pulls a knife and they kick him out the car. From there, the chase is on. The 2 kids keep meeting up with Ryder and his victims. He kills others but toys around with them. Soon, Ryder's got the police thinking the college kids are involved in the murders. Ryder even breaks the kids out of jail. The movie does have some unrealistic car chasing scenes. And the part where Grace busts out of the flaming armored car is pretty ridiculous.FINAL VERDICT: OK, for those who have seen the original, you may be disappointed because this movie just isn't as good. But, it's OK for a cheap thrill.
After watching this, I'm surprised Morgan Freeman didn't win the Oscar. I guess because he's won before is why they didn't give it to him. He was great, but I would only say the movie was average. Mainly because the movie was too long and the final half hour was just the rugby match. It went on too long. Plus, as someone whom knows nothing about rugby, it just made it boring watching all those scenes. That should have been cut down to make the film come in at 2 hours. And I'm not sure why Matt Damon got nominated for awards. His accent was awful and seemed to come and go. And his character had few dramatic scenes. What did he do besides tell his team to listen to the crowd singing and a whole country supporting them.FINAL VERDICT: It's long. I recommend it if you want to see a great acting performance or if you are watching it on DVD so you can stop it a few times. I couldn't sit through it in one viewing.
I like the Resident Evil movies, but this one had no plot. It's basically Alice and her friends shooting guns at zombies and using some Matrix style fighting. How did Alice get gas to fly the plane and what happened to all her clones after the beginning of the movie? And who was the bad guy with the sun glasses? Well, I guess none of that really matters as long as Alice is able to find a stash of guns along the way. How about when they get through into the sewer system, next shot is them on a boat out to the Arcadia. How did they get the boat, 15 minutes seemed to be missing. And Arcadia was disappointing, at least they could have had some mean mutant monster made by Umbrella on there.FINAL VERDICT: Adds nothing, skip it.
This movie was OK but I didn't really care for the message it sends. It's saying it's OK to steal and rob people at gun point if it means saving your house, etc... The film makes fun of Dick and Jane turning into robbers, which really isn't that funny. Sure it's great to see the evil boss, Jack, get what he deserves and all turns out all right for the former employees. And it was funny in a mean spirited kind of way.I liked the competition Dick had going on with the neighbor and then found out him and his wife were also robbing banks. Also the scene were Dick is trying to out run other would be job seekers and even uses a fire extinguisher was funny. He makes it first only to find a really long line.FINAL VERDICT: Entertaining. Jim Carrey was good and not too annoying.
I wanted to think Amanda Seyfried had gotten better, but her character, Sophie, is just not that likable. Sophie is immature and it is never shown why she thinks she is in love with Victor, whom she seems to have little in common with and has no love for cooking like he does. One real problem I had with the movie is that from the beginning they make it seem that Victor and Sophie had no business of being together.So, the 2 go on a pre-honeymoon to Italy, where Victor is about wines and cheeses and Sophie joins a group of ladies that answer letters to Juliet. Even though she knows nothing about love, Sophie wants to answer a 50 year old letter about looking for your true love. Well, the woman who wrote it, Claire, gets the reply and comes to Italy with her grandson, Charlie, to look for her love, Lorenzo. From the beginning you know what is going to happen between Sophie and Charlie, even though you wonder why, considering Charlie is rude and unlikable. Sophie sure isn't given much of a choice between the two. But, because she really isn't that likable, we don't care.And the movie has a very predictable ending. I think if the right actors had been cast in the lead roles, this movie would have been much better.FINAL VERDICT: I wouldn't pay to see it, but if you can catch it on cable it might be worth a viewing, just for the beautiful Italian scenery.
this was no exception. The film was OK but the first one was better. The funny scenes are the best when the superhero first makes himself known or discovers the super powers. Then in the sequels everyone knows about him and it's just not as good.In this sequel little even takes place on Earth, most of it nd attacks is on Asgard. Jane and her interns discover some kind of portal to the dark world and some how she gets the aether absorbed into her, which made little sense. And the aether is a great power than can conquer worlds. Thor goes back to earth to check on Jane and then she "zaps" people with energy and then she goes back with him to Asgard. Then this evil elf awakens attacks Asgard, chases ensue and some how they get to the dark world right where the portal to earth is. Then they go back to the earth and the elf follows. Then there is a some what tame battle on earth. Are you following me? See how crazy this is, the plot just didn't work.FINAL VERDICT: There is the Chris Hemsworth without a shirt scene, so that's cool to check out, plus the evil dudes that were rip offs of the predator were neat. I'd say this movie is for people whom don't want to think while watching.
This movie was pretty cool. Although it does feel disturbing because there is a little girl, that looks about 12, that murders, maims, and brutally kills people left and right and has no remorse.The movie is about a high school boy, Dave, whom wonders why there are no real life superheros, so he decides to invent one, Kick Ass. Only problem is he is a complete wimp whom has no fighting skills. He lucks out and saves a guy from some punks and it's caught on camera. He becomes an internet sensation. Soon he gets the affections of the girl he likes, slight problem is she thinks he's gay.There is the big bad crime boss, Frank, whom thinks Kick Ass is messing with his dealings. However it really is Big Daddy and Hit Girl, otherwise known as the killing machine. Those 2 have some good fight scenes and Hit Girl has to save Daddy and Kick Ass at the end and Kick Ass finally gets some guts and does something to help out.FINAL VERDICT: Pretty good, I'd say it's targeted for teens.
it's been done before. The plot to this movie is not unique; what makes this movie stand out is Ben Kingsley. He's very good at what he does. Penelope Cruz is just sort of blah. I never get why films like this just expects the audience to believe a young hot chick would fall for a very older guy just because he has a position of power. In this case he is her teacher. In this movie the teacher, David, falls in love for the first time with Consuela. He's jealous, afraid she will leave him for a younger guy. He keeps breaking her heart and she finally quits seeing him. Years later she calls him again because she's sick. By this time, David has realized he was really in love with her and can take care of her again.FINAL VERDICT: It was so-so. It moved along slowly. This probably more for the older woman audience.
I was quite impressed with this movie since it was the third sequel. It is still actually entertaining and good and the plot moves forward. One negative for me was the ending. It's set up for the next film with several hundred Alice's ready to kick Umbrella's arse. In this movie, it has been years since the T virus infected Raccoon City and it has spread wiping out the population and turning the land into a desert. Alice is traveling by herself avoiding Umbrella's spies. We also find out that Alice has mental powers now. Due to no transportation, she must join up with a caravan and convinces them that they should try to go to Alaska, where infection may not have spread yet. Only problem is they must look for fuel in Vegas.During this time Umbrella has tracked Alice and has a surprise waiting in Vegas. But the evil scientist gets bit in Vegas and injects lots of antivirus and the effects turn out pretty devastating. Alice decides they must get Umbrella's helicopter to get to Alaska and comes up with a plan. The remaining survivors get on the copter while Alice goes underground to take care of Umbrella.One problem I had was how could the zombies climb Eifel Tower yet thousands of them couldn't climb or knock down a wire fence. Also, when alice busts the fence down, she takes her sweet time in going down below. How come the zombies aren't running after her since the fence has a hole in it.The special effects were pretty good and the plot was interesting. It just wasn't a repeat of the previous films. And I liked the opening when I'm like isn't this the first film? And the way the mutant scientist dies after bragging I can't be killed was good.FINAL VERDICT: If you liked the first two, you will want to see this one. And with the ending, they have to make a fourth film.
I knew Rent was a Broadway musical, but I didn't know anything about it, such as story or songs. But I guess the movie followed most of it. It seems more should have been about the characters getting kicked out of the apartments since it's called Rent. The fact they can't make rent isn't mentioned much. The film takes place over a year. Characters fall in love and die. Several of them have HIV and they all seem to be artists, which is why they are poor? I liked the songs and lyrics. They even came up with a neat song using the phase 521,600 minutes and it is sung well.FINAL VERDICT: I liked it more than I thought I would. I like the songs but the plot could have been better.
I liked how this film shows you how some of the magic tricks are performed. It doesn't try to make the magicians look like warlocks. The centerpoint of the film is the dark rivalry between Angier and Borden. Angier blames Borden for the death of his wife during a magic trick and they become enemies. They try to one up each other. Angier is obsessed over Borden's Teleported Man trick. He must find out how it is done. He gets a new assistant that he falls for but sends her to Borden to discover the secret. However, she falls for Borden and this cause's Borden's wife to commit suicide. Angier goes to see a scientist and he invents a cloning box using electricity. This is where the supernatural elements come into play. Through a series of events, Borden is accused of Angier's murder and is sentenced to die. But, is Angier really dead? What about Borden? What was the secret to the Teleported Man? All of these questions are answered in a confusing ending, but the cloning part still doesn't make complete sense to me.FINAL VERDICT: OK, but I though it was difficult to follow and plus a little to long. The film jumps around a timeline and you have to think about what time frame the film is in.
There was really no need to make this movie other than to make more money. It's not like it added anything to the Shrek story. Plus it wasn't as good and had a really short run time at well under 90 minutes. Nothing made me laugh in this, but I'm sure kids will still love it. This time, Shrek signs a deal with Rumpelstilskin to erase a day of his life so he can be a scary orge again. What he doesn't know is Rumpelstilskin has plans to take over Farawayland and be king. To do this, he must see that Shrek never saved Fiona from the dragon. So, Shrek is taken to an alternate world where he never met Fiona and must get her to fall in love again or disappear forever. Quite a few of the other characters make appearances, but Donkey is the only one given anything to do.Final Verdict: a story works good the first time, but by the third movie it's old. skip it.
I did not find this movie to be very entertaining. It was mostly about politics and the sound was so poor, I could not follow what was said. Sean Penn as well as most of the actors used such a thick southern accent it was unintelligible at times. As for James Gandolfini, I am not sure why he was cast in a movie that takes place in the deep south. I wasn't sure if he was trying to pull of a southern accent or not; however, he still sounded like he was from New York. This movie was supposed to follow the corruption of Governor Willie Starks once he gets elected by playing to the concerns of the poor in the state. He builds a hospital for the poor in order to generate cash for himself. I'm not sure how he made money from that. Plus he keeps a mistress, but she has little to do in the film.FINAL VERDICT: I don't find politics very appealing, so I didn't like this movie. But, I'm sure there are some that would think this is pretty good. If I had subtitles to read, maybe I would have liked it more.
I thought this movie was pretty funny. And it's ONLY for adults. Some of the language and visuals( like full male nudity and various sex positions) make this a far cry from a date movie. However, the story says different.TV star Sarah Marshall breaks up with her 5 year boyfriend Peter. He gets really down in the dumps over it. At first he tries to tag any girl he can but is still depressed. So, he decides a vacation to Hawaii is best. He picks a hotel that Sarah often talked about. And as luck would have it, Sarah is there on holiday with her new boyfriend, British singer Aldous Snow. Peter decides to stay anyways, and front desk clerk, Rachel, helps him out by letting him stay in the best suite for free.Peter begins to like Rachel and they go out several times. He also keeps running into Sarah and Aldous, and they try to act like it is not as awkward as it is. Aldous is like most stero typical rockers, he's all about the chicks. So, it doesn't take him very long to get bored with Sarah. He's very polite and wants to be Peter's friend.So do things work out with Peter and Rachel? How many women does Aldous bag? Or how about does the naive honeymoon couple finally figure things out? FINAL VERDICT: One of the funnier movies that's been released in the past year. As long as you aren't a prude, then you should enjoy this one.
The plot of this horror movie was nothing unique. The movie didn't even have any of those make you jump in your seat moments. The idea is someone gets a phone call from a friend that just died and the date and time of the call is from the future. It's actually the exact time they will die. Beth figures all this out as her friends die and asks for help from Dective Jack Andrews. Jack's sister was actually one of the victims and the connection is a children's hospital that recently burned. They think the spirit of an abusive mother may be traveling through the phone killing people. Sounds like a great idea right. And of course, they are slightly wrong because there is a little more to the story. And the ending really doesn't have a conclusion.FINAL VERDICT: Nothing new, not scary, plot just too dull.
This movie had more of a plot than I thought it would have. I was expecting a lot of raunchy humor like American Pie, but the jokes just weren't gross out ones. Two 30 year old guys get their kicks by crashing weddings during the summer. They do it for the food, boos, fun , and women. In the beginning, we see Jeremy and John attend a few weddings and see the tricks they pull to pick up women. Jeremy makes animal balloons and tells sob stories. Tehy try to cut the wedding cake and look like they belong before chatting up chicks.Then they crash the wedding of a congressman's daughter. Jeremy nails one of the brides maids, another daughter, Gloria. She's all clingy and it freaks him out. John likes another daughter, Claire, but she has a boyfriend. Gloria invites Jeremy and John to the family retreat. Jeremy doesn't want to go because he's ready to ditch Gloria, but John insists they must go so he can get Claire. All throughout the film they recite the "rules" and John points out Rule # says never leave a fellow crasher behind.The middle of the movie is at the retreat. A lot of laughs come from Claire's very competitive boyfriend and the family outcast, Todd. But the truth comes out about Jeremy and John lying. But things end up good for both guys in the end.But what really makes this movie unbelievable is that John, who loves one night stands, would fall in love with Claire in a day and want to stop being a hound dog. I don't think so. But just get by that part and the movie is good.Plus, Will Ferrell has a funny cameo as a legendary crasher.FIANL VERDICT: Funny, entertaining.
If gambling and poker interests you, then you will love this film. Otherwise, it's too long and in some parts boring because there are so many long card playing scenes. Did the movie have to show so many hands of poker being played for us to follow the story? Eric Bana plays a gambler who wins some but loses a lot. His father, Robert Duval, is a world famous gambler. Duval is fabulous as usual in his role. Drew Barrymore plays the girl Bana pursues. He "borrows" money from her and gets in the dog house but alls well in the end. There are a few funny parts where his friend sets up silly wagers. Like staying in a bathroom and the whole run/golf bet. The climax is the world poker tournament and whether or not Bana can win it.FINAL VERDICT: I like the actors in this, but I don't know anything about poker, so didn't follow that part with the checking and table tapping. A little too much of the technical stuff. The card playing should have been shorter. But I still recommend it if you like any of the actors.
play a crazy guy, then this is right up your alley. Douglas plays a recently released bi polar patient that goes to live with his 16 year old daughter. His daughter dropped out of school and says she's been working full time at McDonald's since he got sent away. Now that part is not believable because there are labor laws and a 15 year old could not just get around them.Once he comes home, he has this crazy idea that there is buried treasure. So he goes on all these hunts using metal detectors, back hoes, the stars and his daughter goes along with it. She doesn't even try to tell him it's the delusions, she does his crazy schemes. Then she gets mad when he sells her car and takes out loans on the house he can't pay.So the ending was pretty cool. They break into a Costco because he believes that is where the treasure is buried. And the daughter gets a sort of fairy tale ending.FINAL VERDICT: OK, it was entertaining and a short movie. Worth watching on cable.
The film takes place in winter with snow and ice and the director used a lot of blue light in order to give the film a creepier atmosphere. Kyle is taking a flight from Berlin back to New York with her daughter. They are bringing back her dead husband for burial. She falls asleep on the flight, only to wake up with her daughter missing. The plane is huge with lounges and and upstairs with seating. There's a lot of places to hide a little girl. Her search turns frantic and she starts accusing arabs on the plane with taking her daughter. She designs planes for a living so she knows about all the storage areas and wants them all searched. The captain agrees but when she starts acting crazy, the air marshal steps in and handcuffs her. The stewards check the manifesto and can't find the daughter's name on it. They get a report that her daughter died also, so they think she's having a hysterical fit.But, Kyle knows she's not crazy and creates a diversion to look for her daughter herself. And then we find out whose behind it all. I thought they told us to early in the film what's really going on. We know and there's about 30 minutes left. So, the last 30 minutes are not as suspenseful as they could be. Usually in films like this, we find out the twist with just 10 or 15 minutes left. Also, it's too easy to guess the main character behind it all because he's given such a prominent role. Plus, the whole scheme he was trying to pull seemed far fetched. Are you telling me that the bad guy assumed that no one in over 400 would remember seeing the little girl, not even the people sitting right in front of them which included two bratty kids.FINAL VERDICT: OK, the first part was better than the last part. They tell who did it too early in the film. But, if you like mysteries, then I would recommend it. Just get over the far fetched plot holes.
The robots in this movie definitely reminded me of the Transformers, which is a good thing. In this, Hugh Jackman plays, Charlie, a dead beat dad, whom fights robots. The mother of his son, Max, dies and Charlie is left with custody. He doesn't really care, but Maxes Aunt wants to raise him. The Aunt's hubby offers Charlie some money if he will watch Max over the summer until they get back from Europe. So of course, Max loves the robots and is into the boxing. Max finds an old robot, fixes him up, and the robot becomes the people's champ.Of course Charlie changes over the course of the film.FINAL VERDICT: Good special effects, the robots were neat. If you like transformers, you should like this.
This was one of the better animated films of the past several years. Both adults and kids would like it. Remy the rat gets separated from his colony and ends up at restaurant Gusteau. Remy is no ordinary rat. He loves to cook and is excellent at it. A new employee there, Linguini, sees Remy added herbs to the soup and to his surprise and all the other cooks, it is very good. No one else notices Remy though, so Linguini gets all the credit. Only problem is Linguini really can't cook. The owner, Skinner, discovers that Linguini is really Gusteau's long lost son. That means Linguini could still inherit the restaurant. Customers begin asking for Linguini's special dishes, which are created by Remy. They strike up a partnership. Remy controls Linguini's arms with his hair. I know, that sounds really weird. Any way, its up to them to impress the harshest food critic of all and to find out about Linguini's father. Plus, Remy finds his family again, but can he leave the restaurant business behind for them.FINAL VERDICT: Very entertaining story with great animation. It had more substance than a lot of animated films.
That's what came to mind after looking at the emaciated Bale. He is so scary skinny and it's not special effects. I don't know how he lost all that weight and still function. He plays, Trevor, an insomniac. He says he hasn't slept in a year and his only friend is a prostitute he pays for. He starts finding post it notes on his fridge he didn't put there. And he sees a big bald guy at work that no one else does. Because of this he becomes distracted and causes an accident that results in a co-worker losing a limb. He visits a waitress at an airport diner on a regular basis. He's becoming more paranoid and thinks everyone is lying about the bald guy. He gets fired and turns on the prostitute. You know this isn't going to end pretty.FINAL VERDICT: Good psychological film but I did think that the bald guy wasn't real from the beginning. Bale gives a good acting performance and is so think it just gives the movie an added oomph. I recommend it.
This movie was an average couples movie Hollywood style. In the beginning, the couple, in this case a married, successful, New York City couple, are having problems. They get put in a stressful situation and low and behold decide to get back together again. This story has been done a thousand times and there was nothing really new here.The couple, Paul and Meryl, are in the witness protection program and are sent to rural Wyoming: hence, fish out of water. This is supposed to be funny because they are city people, but we've seen it to many times for it to be effective. The only parts I liked were Paul's sarcastic remarks, which Hugh Grant is very good at delivering.FINAL VERDICT: Not worth watching.
Russell Crowe once again gives an A performance as real life boxer, James J Braddock. Renee Zellweger also does a good job as his wife. Braddock lost about everything during the great depression and he struggles to put food on the table for the couples 3 kids. His boxing license gets taken away because he just isn't delivering entertaining bouts. He is forced to work at the docks and beg for money. Then his luck changes; his old manager comes by asking him to take a fight at last minute notice. Of course, he jumps at the chance to make a little money, and he wins. His left hand has become more powerful from all the hard work at the docks. He keeps winning fights and gets a chance at the champ, Max Baer.His story is about triumph during the depression. He is an inspiration for the down trodden, who are rooting for him. If someone who was in the red could come back to be heavy weight champion, it gave hope to all. That is the message of the story. Very similar to the race horse story, Sea biscuit.But, it is a good story, great acting, and beautiful imagery. The film makers capture the early 30s look.FINAL VERDICT: Everyone should watch this. It's not just a boxing movie, it's an emotional drama.
just remember they are one sided from his point of view. Michael Moore does a good job in getting his point across: in this case that socialistic health care in Europe or Canada is better than what we have in the United States. He acts like it's a crime that people and/or employers should have to be responsible for paying for health insurance. I'm sure he found the most extreme cases to use in this movie and that the US system is not as bad as he makes it sound. While what they do in Europe does have advantages, you also have to wait a long time to see any specialist and operations could take months to ever get.While I think Moore picked a good topic to do this film on, it just takes something away when he opens the movie with comments from President Bush. Look, we know he doesn't like Bush, and he doesn't need to bash him in this film.FINAL VERDICT: I recommend watching this. Get a chance to see what health care is like in Europe, but just take anything said with a grain of salt because like all Moore films, this one is biased from the start.
Being the fourth sequel, the idea behind the Scary Movie franchise is nothing new, however, the film is still entertaining and amusing. Sure, it isn't laugh out loud funny all the time, but it ought to give you a few chuckles and it is interesting enough to sit through. This time War of the Worlds, The Grudge, The Village, and Saw are the major movies that are spoofed throughout. Other movies get their due and are made fun of like Brokeback Mountain and I doubt I could list all of them. The main story centers around out star Cindy, who moves into a house haunted by a Japanese boy. She meets a hot neighbor who is also a bad father. Then the alien tri pods attack and most of the rest of the film is based on War of the Worlds.FINAL VERDICT: Worth a viewing if you want some simple comedy to entertain you for 90 minutes.
There was absolutely nothing funny about this movie. The writing was horrible. It's about a guy, Mark, whom has a hot wife but is cheating on her. Meet mistress one, Carly, whom befriends his wife, Kate, after learning he is married. Carly feels bad and she and Kate dish about low life Mark. But yet Kate can't let go. Then they meet mistress two, Amber, a younger, hotter version of them. So, all 3 team up and basically do silly pranks on Mark, like laxatives, hormones. And of course they find a way for things to work out more for Kate than Mark.And ancient Don Johnson makes an appearance with his awful plastic surgery looking face. And he's Cameron's dad, as if.FINAL VERDICT: Even though the movie has some hot stars, they can't save the awful writing and failed jokes. Don't waste your time with this.
One of the biggest problems this movie has is its star, Shailene Woodley, is not leading lady material. There is nothing about her or her acting that stands out and takes command of the movie. All the actors were more on the boring side, mainly due to the fact the movie is at such a slow pace. More needed to happen for an adventure sci-fi movie. Another thing was the movie never explained why the Erudite thought they should control everyone and why the other 4 factions wouldn't gang up on them and stop them. Also what is going on outside the city walls. I wonder if any of the sequels go there? FINAL VERDICT: It's an OK teen movie, better than the Twlight films, but nothing great.
Bobby runs a Russian night club that has some drug dealings going on. His dad is chief of police and his brother is a captain. The only one who knows this is his girlfriend. His brother, Joe, wants Bobby to help figure out where the big shipment of drugs are. Bobby eventually goes undercover, but he can't pull it off and gets made. A big shoot out follows, with the capture of the chief Russian drug dealer. Bobby and his girl must go into hiding. Does Bobby get found out by the Russians? Does he have a career change? The last 45 minutes reveal this. This movie had more going for it than expected. It was more of the drama involving a cop family than mob film.FINAL VERDICT: I thought it was pretty good.
a bunch of unnecessary nudity thrown in for publicity. I think Kate Winslett's nude scenes were to help advertise the Reader. Her young lover, Michael, also shows off too. But aside from that, this movie is OK but nothing great. Winslett is Hana Schmitz, an older woman that falls for a 15 year old and begins an affair. She has him read her lots of books since she is hiding her illiteracy. The first part of the film is about the affair; the second part is about Hana's trial. She is on trial with others for being a nazi guard and letting her prisoners burn in a church. An older Michael is now in law school and is attending her trial. He wants to say something when Hana's illiteracy could help her case, but doesn't. Hana gets a life sentence.The make up and aging of Hana is very good. But the film does have a slow pace and is too long at close to 2 hours. Winslett deserved all the acting nominations and awards. The subject matter just doesn't make this my type of movie.FINAL VERDICT: Drama lovers will probably like this and think it's great. I thought it was just OK.
get a life, say YES. Jim Carrey plays Carl, a banker at a dead end job that always makes excuses as to why he can't do things. One day he meets an old friend that suggest he attend the YES seminar. Carl does and is convinced by the ringleader, Terrence, that he must say yes to all situations that come up.Soon, Carl is giving rides to homeless guys, approving loans for everyone, and attending band concerts. At this concert, he meets his dream girl, Allison, in which he met a few nights earlier when getting a ride from her. Soon, Carl is hanging out with his friends and going out with Allison, doing all kinds of spontaneous things like taking trips to Lincoln, Nebraska.Of course, we have the whole girlfriend getting mad at the guy and he must win her back at the end. The movie had it's funny moments, but not one of Jim Carrey's best.FINAL VERDCIT: I'd probably skip this and see one of Carrey's better movies.
The main problem with this movie for me is it is just too ridiculous to believe in a magic mailbox. I like Sandra Bullock and Keanu Reeves. They work well together and are believable as too people falling in love through letters. But the fact that the time line is 2 years apart and no one says this is utterly impossible is ridiculous. Everyone just accepts the fact that this magic mailbox delivers mail 2 years apart instaneously. Even when they tell someone else that person has no problem believing the whole premises. And with any movie about time travel, there are always many plot holes you can point out.Overall, the romance is pretty good, but the story could have used some humor. There was no quirky best friend like there usually is.FINAL VERDICT: If you fans of the 2 stars, it is worth watching; otherwise, there are better romance films out there.
I thought it was an OK comedy. It made me chuckle at times. Sadie and Ben plan to get married, but first must pass Rev Frank's marriage course. The Rev spies on them and sets up silly tests, like carrying around plastic babies that really cry and poop. I thought that was pretty good. All these tests cause the couple to rethink the marriage an let them see are they really right for each other.I thought Robin Williams was OK. This was his stereotypical character. His apprentice sidekick kid was just creepy. Everyone else in the film was just average.FINAL VERDICT: If you like these sort of comedies, then check it out.
The idea for this movie has been done before, and it's filmed in a style that I like. One of the characters, Scott, follows everyone around with a camera and light, and we see what happens through that camera. So you get realistic unsteady shots of people running and you can't see much in a dark room. It makes the whole film more creepy.Angela is a reporter that is going to follow a couple of firefighters around all night with her camera man, Scott. They get a call to an apartment building. The cops are already there and they go up to a room with a crazy old lady. Before they know it, the lady bites one of the cops. Then full panic mode erupts. Before anyone can get out, the CDC barricades them inside. A resident, whom is a vet, suspects rabies from the symptoms that are present from the bitten people. Soon the bitten are attacking the living and it's everyone for themselves.The last part when Angela, Scott, and Jake are trying to get the keys and escape was creepy. And at the end when Angela and Scott are in that room with that creature, that was scary.FINAL VERDICT: I thought it was a pretty good horror movie. It's styled like the ultra hyped Cloverfield, except I thought this was much more tense and creepy. I recommend it.
I never heard of this movie before watching it on shotime. It was strange but funny when you think about it. It's one of those quirky movies that fans of independent films would like.Lars played by a ghostly white Ryan Gosling (why did they make him look like death wormed over) lives in his brother's garage and doesn't like to be touched. One night he's got some great news for his brother, Gus and sister in law, Karin. He has a girl over and wants to know if she can sleep in the house. Next scene the two are giving Lars odd looks because the girl is a doll named Bianca. Lars talks to Bianca and she talks back. He's even made up this whole background story for her. When Gus tries to mention she's a doll, Lars ignores him. Soon, the whole town goes along with Lars' delusion and acts like Bianca is real. Bianca is given baths, taken to a job, given presents. The only way Gus gets Lars to see a Doctor is by saying that Bianca needs to go every week.Margo, who works with Lars, seems to like him but once she sees him with the doll starts going out with another guy. She breaks up with him after a while and Lars seems interested in this. The next thing you know, Lars says Bianca is unconscious and dying. They even call 911 and the ambulance plays along with this. One day Lars decides that Bianca has died and they have a funeral and he goes for a walk with Margo.Just the thought of the whole town acting like a doll is a real person was enough to make me laugh. It's just so silly that no one would call Lars out and try to get him to realize it's a doll.FINAL VERDICT: This movie is for those that like weird films.
This is not another Will Ferrell comedy. He actually tries his hand at drama here. It is different type of film for Ferrell; however, we have seen films like this before. Such as Jim Carey in the Truman Show. Ferrell plays Harold Crick, an IRS agent who wakes up one day and hears a voice describing his life. He thinks he's crazy as well as others. He visits a doctor but doesn't want to take medication. So, he goes to see an English professor. He describes what the voice says and how poetic he sounds. One day at the teachers office, he sees an interview on the TV of an author who sounds exactly like the voice in his head. He tracks her down and discovers she is writing a book and he is the central character. She writes tragedies, but he asks her not to kill him off. There is a side plot of him falling for a baker whom he audits. Not really a whole lot there. Plus Maggie Gynallhal is way to young to play his love interest.Overall, it was sort of interesting but nothing great. It is not something you care to see twice. And you won't be missing anything by not seeing it.FINAL VERDICT: It was OK. It is what it is. Sort of bland sort of interesting, but nothing that stands out.
This movie was definitely better than most. It was quite entertaining. It has some cool special effects, esp. the fawn. Even though it is like a fairy tale, it is rated R for a reason: not for kids. This is a very violent and bloody movie. The scene with the captain beating a man to death in the head was one of the most gruesome scenes in film history. It was worse than what they show in your average slasher flick. Ofelia travels to live with an evil Captain with her pregnant mother who has married the captain. She finds a fairy who leads her through a labyrinth to a mysterious fawn. He tells her she is a princess who must complete three dangerous tasks in order to find immortality. While this is going on, we learn her mother is very ill plus rebels are fighting the soldiers and 2 people in the Captain's household are part of the rebellion. Ofelia also disobeys the fawn and gets into some trouble of her own.The whole film just has a creepy feel to it; plus it has some very violent scenes. It was just very original. Also the subtitles take nothing away from the film.FINAL VERDICT: If you like gory movies, this is for you. Reading the subtitles is not bad. Check it out.
This is a murder mystery; too bad there wasn't enough suspense or chemistry between the lead actors. Hallie Berry has picked some bad thrillers to be in lately. Berry plays, Ro, a reporter who does some investigating when a child hood friend turns up murdered. The friend had talked to her a week before her death and mentioned how she was having an affair with an ad executive, Harrison Hill. Ro decides to investigate Hill with the help of her computer geek friend, Miles. It turns out Miles is more of a freak than Ro thought. The investigation of Hill is supposed to be thrilling, but it really isn't. There isn't enough suspense. At the end Miles puts it all together and we get a montage of who committed the murder and how. Very sneaky. But not that great of a pay off.FINAL VERDICT: If you don't see this, you aren't missing anything. There are better movies out there.
This movie was more fun and better than I thought it would be. The aliens, even though they were rip offs of Ridley Scot's aliens, were better CGI than expected. But why were they after gold? I didn't get that unless it was for energy.Any ways, Jake, played by Craig, has lost some of his memory but knows something weird is going on. He has a bracelet that can zap people and he knows something happened to his lady. He wonders into a town, only to have a lot of the townsfolk captured by the aliens. So, him, survivors set out to find them and eventually join forces with Indians. The story did make sense, it was terrible.FINAL VERDICT: OK action film.
I really liked the story and the songs were good too. The movie starts out with a cartoon princess and her animal friends. She is set to marry Prince Edward whom she's known a day. But Edward's step mom, Queen Narrisa, sends Gizelle to real world New York City. Amy Adams was perfect for this character. She sings well and has this sweet, high pitched voice perfect for being a Princess. Gizelle falls into the lap of Robert, whom has a little girl and a girlfriend of 5 years. It's not long before Gizelle realizes there's more to finding a guy than one can do in a day and wants more than the dazzling smile from Prince Edward. Edward finds her, but she wants to go on a date at the Queen's Ball. Narrisa comes to New York to stop the 2 and she becomes the big ending. Does Gizelle want more than a fairy tale typical romance? Does Edward get a wife? Watch to find out.This movie was funny also. From Gizelle making her own clothes to Edward's fascination with the TV. Quite a few funny scenes.FINAL VERDICT: Adults and kids will like this a lot. I suggest check it out.
The only way to get so many A list actors in such a horrible film is by having a famous director, whom I think has done some good movies but also some very boring ones. And this was one of the very boring ones. The film shows the behind the scenes of a radio show. Most of the show is country and gospel music. So, you know this is going to be a weird film when you see Lilly Tomlin and Merryl Streep singing country. And we have to listen to Lindsey Lohon attempt to sing. It was nothing to write home about.FINAL VERDICT: A movie without a story equals a terrible film. This was one of the most boring films I've ever seen. Do not watch this.
This movie does have some shocking humor that was funny and some that was gross. Also, this movie is less than 90 minutes, it was very short. Some of the better jokes are Aladeen order executions and learning they were never carried out, the wall of girls' pictures, stealing the head, the head under the covers, the exposed bathrobe, birthing the baby, the helicopter ride with the other couple. There's definitely some laughs there even though there wasn't much to this story. Anna Farris wasn't that great in this. I didn't like the wig she had to wear.FINAL VERDICT: If you like crude humor, I'm sure you'll want to check this out.
Going in, I knew this wasn't the typical sports movie, and I thought I probably wouldn't like it that much, but it turned out to be a good movie and a neat idea. Instead of focusing on the baseball team, the film focuses on those that build the team, specifically the GM, Billy Beane, played by Brad Pitt. It's one of Pitt's better roles.Beane enlists the aid of Ivy League graduate, Peter Brand, in picking ball players. There budget is small compared to other teams, so they look for players that are good at getting on base, and other teams undervalue, ie...won't have to pay them much. Through using a whole new idea to build a team, they are eventually proved successful.I'm surprised this movie didn't win the Oscar for screenplay, It deserved it. As for the acting, it was OK, but I didn't think Pitt or Hill were anything special and really didn't deserve any nominations. Especially Hill, whose role is to play a nerdy, computer geek, with hardly any emotion and a monotone voice. I don't think that says Oscar.FINAL VERDICT: A new type of sports movie. Definitely check it out.
I finally got the chance to see this movie, and it didn't disappoint. It was a very compelling drama of a 16 year old girl, Precious. Precious is illiterate and only has her fantasies to live through. Her life is hell. She is abused emotionally and physically by her lazy mom. The mom tells her how worthless she is and how she wished she was never born. She throws things at her. But worst of all is Precious has one child and another on the way by her own father. Her mother hates her because her man wanted Precious more than her. The mother uses this as an excuse to justify the sexual abuse. It was disgusting.Precious gets a break when a teacher at school sends her to an alternative school in hopes of getting a GED. We see how far Precious has slipped through the cracks when she doesn't even know the word AT. She seems to be doing better only to learn a horrible truth about her father and what else he gave her.FINAL VERDICT: well written, emotional, a real life situation. It's a must see.
You have a daughter you need to help from being charged with murder, a hot very rich detective on your trail, and a wanna-be serial killer dweeb who wants to ride shotgun on a kill. These are all the things that super rich serial killer, Earl Brooks, has to deal with.Kevin Costner is back and actually OK in this as Mr. Brooks, a guy whom seems to have it all (a family man with a successful business); however, he has a dark secret. He is addicted to killing. He goes to AA meetings for it, but his sinister conscience, Marshall, continues to drive him to kill. Brooks is the thumbprint killer and one night he commits the deed in front of an open window. Wanna-be killer, Mr. Smith, sees it all and takes pictures. He uses them to blackmail Brooks into taking him on one of his kills. Apparently, he too, has a demented mind.Brooks' daughter, Jane, comes home saying she is dropping out of school. But why? Several days later the police come to ask questions about a guy that was murdered at her college. Brooks is sure she did it and inherited this sickness from him. He decided to clean up her mess.There there is detective Tracy Atwood, played by Demi Moore, whom is working the thumbprint killer case. She is also going through a divorce and being stalked by escaped con, Meeks, whom she put away.One night while staking out a potential kill, Brooks recognizes Meeks as a wanted man. He does some research and finds out about Atwood. He decides to change targets and makes Atwood's soon to be ex the next victim. And he leaves a clue for her to find Meeks. All this time Smith is with Brooks, but he really freaks out when they Kill Atwood's husband. Brooks has decided he wants to die and arranges a plan for Smith to kill him. But he tricks Smith and decides he wants to live, so he kills Smith and reclaims his seemingly normal life.I thought the story was good not very plausible, but entertaining. For once, Costner is not annoying; however, Dane Cook looks like he could use a bath.FINAL VERDICT: I thought it was worth watching. It's not very suspenseful and not a mystery. It's just a story about a serial killer, sort of like the TV show Dexter.
this is basically Goonies meets ET. The film centers around several young teens whom are making a zombie movie and witness a train wreck and accidentally capture some amazing video footage. The military comes in to clean up the train wreck and soon overtakes the town. Also weird things start to happen in the town, like all the dogs run away and microwaves and car engines go missing.The kids know the man whom caused the wreck because he was one of their teachers (BTW how did the teacher survive that, it wouldn't be possible). They find these old videos he had stashed that tell the whole story and what they are up against. So, it's up to them to save one of their own.One thing I didn't get is when the kids are running through the neighborhood, what are all those tanks shooting at. Too much was going on in those scenes.FINAL VERDICT: OK, but not really good enough to recommend.
I never heard of this film before watching it on cable. It turned out to be surprisingly funny. This movie is about a fictional musician named Dewey Cox. It sort of follows recent films like the ones about Ray Charles and Johnny Cash. It starts with Dewey as a boy and he is responsible for a horrible accident with his talented brother. It's quite funny as the top half keeps talking. Flash forward to high school. Dewey is now played by John C Reily and he is supposed to be 14. Quite funny. He sings a song that sends people into a tizzy. Next thing you know his married, with a kid, and trying to make it in showbiz. Another really funny thing is whenever Dewey runs into the Tim Meadows character doing drugs. He also says you don't want none of this. Then acts offended if Dewey wants to say no. But as the story goes, Dewey gets hooked on drugs. He gets anther wife and has so many kids he can't keep track of them. He is at odds with his dad.And the songs they come up with are catchy, but silly. The film just en-chances the typical out of control life of a rock star.FINAL VERDICT: Better than expected. Not for kids.
This movie was pretty good. But I liked the version with Gene Wilder better. I haven't read the book, so I don't know which version is more accurate. But this movie does have some different adventures in the chocolate factory. Plus, Johnny Depp plays an unique Willy Wonka. He's very weird and neurotic. Plus ghostly(fair skinned): I guess from hardly ever leaving the factory. The stories the same with the finding of the golden tickets. The oomp a loomphas are different and they sing these cute songs every time one of the kids has to go. The boat ride on the chocolate river was different. It was neat. But the other kids beside Charlie were bratty as ever.FINAL VERDICT: Still a good children's story. I recommend it.
This is a very misleading story. You think it is going to be about some kids go to a cabin in the woods and something creepy happens, like it's haunted or there are monsters. But in reality they are in a science experiment. We learn that a bunch of betting, goofy scientists have planned their trip to the woods without them knowing. And when the 2 survivors learn the truth, it gets really bloody and blows your mind as to what is really going on. And how are the Japanese kids so smart. I liked the originality of it all.FINAL VERDICT: Different, a unique twist on a horror story. If you like lots of blood, check it out.
you have to believe the couple, Darrell and Vanessa, are so stupid that they can't tell a grown man, Calvin, from a baby. They are shocked at the size of his pee-pee yet just except the fact it's a little baby. And never mind the large tattoo the baby has. A con man whom is a midget gets released from prison and along with another idiot steels a diamond. The diamond ends up in Vanessa's purse and they come up with the idea to pretend that Calvin is a baby to get into the house to get the diamond. Darrell and Vanessa decide to keep him for the weekend since child services are closed. Then there are a lot of jokes about breast mild, rectal thermometers, baths, etc... Calvin starts to enjoy his time there since he never had a family. Of course,the mob guy who wants the diamond puts the squeeze on and finally a happy ending.FINAL VERDICT: I thought it was pretty good. Not the funniest movie in the world, but it was good enough to be entertaining.
This movie was better than expected. It had a plot that made sense and Detective John McClane is back with more kick @ss stunts. This time around he crashes a car into a helicopter and even out lasts a F35 through a maze of roads. This time around McClane is assigned the task of taking in a computer hacker geek to the FBI. Only problem is the guy he's taking, Matt, is about to get whacked and he walks in right before it's about to happen. So McClane gets to pull the guns out early and we are to the races. The bad guy is taking over all computer networks, so he controls phones, traffic lights, TV signals, etc... Matt is one of several hackers who helped designed a code, but he didn't know what it would be used for. So Matt and McClane stay one step ahead and try to track down the mastermind, Thomas Gabriel. McClane even gets to take on Gabriel's girl, a kung fu kicking Asian chick whom almost gets the best of him. What's amazing is that McClane can continue to get up even after jumping from a speeding car, getting shot, falling out of 3 story buildings, etc.... Most people would have broke a leg or maybe had all their skin ripped off when jumping out of a fast moving car.But anyways, it's entertaining. Definitely better than the third sequel. But hopefully this will be the last.FINAL VERDCIT: Worth seeing if you want an action film.
but still manages to entertain. The movie starts slow with 3 guys getting some advice to visit this hostel in eastern Europe because the girls are so hot and will have plenty of sex with Americans. So, they go there and along the way meet a creepy man on the train who "touches" one of the guys. They get to the hostel and find their roommates are very hot girls who are more than willing to party, take drugs, and partake in bedroom games. After a wild night, the guy from Iceland has disappeared. The other 2 roommates look for him but no luck. The next night, Paxton wakes up and Josh is gone. Paxton is suspicious by now but still goes with the hot girls when they say they will take him to Josh. What Paxton discovers is sick beyond belief. Gruesome torture, body parts everywhere. It turns out he has been targeted by a group of people who find victims for very rich people to kill and torture for kicks. Will he escape? Will he get revenge? If you can stomach it, you will find out.FINAL VERDICT: Lots of sex and blood. Horror fans should definitely check this out.
What a terrible action film. It was like a futuristic, western, vampire movie- too much rolled into one. First the vampires are bad cgi creatures that have no eyes. They look like some generic monster. But for some reason the really bad vampire looks like a normal human, how they are usually depicted.Preists are killers hired by the church to kill the vampires. The lead Priest goes against the church and heads out to the boonies to help his brother whose daughter was taken by the vampires. Soon a couple other priests join him, plus the town sheriff. They race across the desert in weird motorcycles and battle some of those simplistic vamps, which doesn't seem to be much of a challenge. Then there is a battle on a train.Most of it didn't make a lot of sense.FINAL VERDICT: Terrible
make for a lousy movie. The problem with this comedy was that it just wasn't funny, especially the first half hour, most of it is a narrator and it was just boring. Basically an outcast named John wishes his teddy bear were real and be his friend. Well it happens. Skip ahead to a 35 year old John with a girlfriend, Lori, of 4 years. The 2 live together with Ted, the bear. Ted likes to smoke pot and be vulgar. He's a bad influence on John and Lori's had enough. So you know what's coming next, the ultimatum, and you know Ted won't leave John alone for long. And there's this really gross side plot of Ted getting it on with a fellow cashier. And of course Ted has to help John win Lori back and there is the side plot of Ted's crazy stalkers. But the jokes weren't funny.FINAL VERDICT: A waste of time, skip it.
I thought this sequel was pretty good. It had a fast paced and cool special effects and it moved the story along. The dragon was by far the best special effects. It actually looked sort of "real." The dwarfs along with Bilbo are on a journey to get to the mountain where the dragon and his treasure lies. They travel through a forest filled with giant spiders. They are captured by Elves and escape traveling down a river in barrels while being chased by Orcs. They make it to Laketown and then find the secret door into the mountain. Then Bilbo is sent to find the Arkenstone and dodges the dragon before all the dwarfs get involved. Then it ends, set up for the third installment.FINAL VERDICT: It was good. But know there is no conclusion. So I think it would be best to watch this once the third part comes out so you have an ending.
I thought this movie was OK, but had too many story lines. Gigi was the central character; she was a girl looking for a guy and was completely clueless about what girls say and what they really mean. A lot of her time is spent waiting for the phone to ring or debating if she should call. She has two coworkers, Janine and Beth, she confides in and the movie goes into their relationships. And there are several other players in this. The movie shows all different kinds of relationships, from a cheating husband to a guy that doesn't want to marry. The problem is there were so many characters, the movie doesn't have time to really focus on any of them and the characters are not well developed.FINAL VERDICT: This movie is for those that are sort of like the character Gigi. If you don't need dating lessons, then I would skip this.
I thought this movie would be so much better. Now, I am glad I didn't pay to see this in a theater. Wolverine is my favorite character from the first X-Men movie, which I thought was great. So, I was expecting to really like this movie since it's all about Wolverine. Well, the story wasn't great and neither were the special effects. The coolest scene was already shown in the advertisements for the film, and that was when Wolverine escapes the water tank after just getting the transformation. And they really cheapened the death of Logan's girl at the end. That was lazy writing. Even the finally battle between Logan, Victor, and "Wade" was no where near as good as the fighting scenes from X-Men. Also, it would have been nice to see Wolverine get his hands on Stryker before he lost his memory.FINAL VERIDCT: Disappointing.
I was fully expecting to not like this movie because I haven't thought much of Iron Man or Captain America movies, but the story behind this film was better than I expected. Also, you need to have seen previous superhero movies to get this movie, especially Thor. Loki, Thor's evil brother, comes to earth to lead an alien invasion and it's up to the superheros to stop him. The Black Widow and Hawkeye have very little to do and could have been left out. So basically, the heroes are chasing Loki around until the invasion when there is a huge battle at the end. The battle was cool with cool computer effects. This is when the Hulk gets to play his big part. But the main heroes in the film were Thor and Ironman, and Captain America gets to make a few decisions too.FINAL VERDICT: OK action flick, but you need to know about the previous superhero movies to get this one.
This movie was OK till the final 10 minutes. I don't like it when a movie ends with no explanation and just leaves the viewer to guess what happened. Did Jack's wife Madlyln have anything to do with what happened or did the ex-con do something? But why would he do something when Jack recommended his release? And why do we see the ex-con, Stone, just walking down a street? But back to the beginning, the performances were pretty good. Robert De Niro, plays Jack, someone whom goes over parole cases and gives his recommendation. He is close to retirement and likes to drink a lot as does his wife Madlyln, whom is very religious. One of his last cases is Stone, played by Ed Norton, whom does a great accent as someone with little education and past drug use. Stone gets his hot wife, Lucetta, to make contact with Jack and play mind games. She acts like she's really interested in Jack, so he starts meeting her and it leads to more. So, the question is does Stone get out of prison? The movie was pretty good leading up to this, but as I mentioned before it just goes off grid for the final 10 minutes.FINAL VERDICT: Worth seeing because most of the movie is good.
This story was pretty good, but not as good as Schindler's List. The famed counterfeiter, a Jew named Sally, is captured and put in a concentration camp. He is pulled with others and sent to make forgeries of the pound and dollar to finance the Nazi war and destroy the economies of its enemies. You get the usual Nazi torturing and killing prisoners and calling them filthy pigs. Sally becomes a favorite of the commander when they finally make a passable forgeries of the pound. The accomplishment even earns them a ping pong table.They delay the making of the dollar, so the Nazis never got to use the dollar forgery much. After being freed, the counterfeiters see they actually had much better living conditions (food, beds, clothes) then other survivors. They even have to show there number tattoos to the other survivors for them to believe their story.FINAL VERDICT: Pretty good, it is subtitled so you have to be prepared to pay attention if watching it.
This movie wasn't that great. The college girls in this are there for nothing but some T&A. They are terrible at acting, especially the Hills Audriana. There is a reason why she hardly has any lines. And the plot has been done quite a few times. A group of friends accidentally kill another friend and then cover it up. Then sometime later, all the people that know the secret suddenly start dying.The main problem is the deaths are really boring and not much gore. Also, when we learn who is doing it, the reason behind it was so stupid.FINAL VERDICT: this has been done before and a lot better
I liked this movie, but it isn't for really young kids. It would probably scare them. But for older kids and adults, it was very entertaining. The visuals were top notch, and the film included all the main characters Alice meets in Wonderland. I especially thought Tweedle dee and dumb were so cute and deserved more screen time. The other great character was the red queen. Her appearance was perfect and when we see her court are wearing disguises to make them look as unattractive as her, that was funny.The battle between Alice and the Jabberwocky was cool as far as visuals, but we knew how it would turn out. I also liked the humor involving Hamish. It just helped to make the story a little different than other versions.FINAL VERDICT: It's not to long and worth watching.
Sure, this isn't the funniest movie Ben Stiller has been in, but I still thought it was pretty good. Robert Downey Jr and Tom Cruise steal the movie with 2 great characters. Downey plays an Oscar winning actor whom really gets into his roles. In this war movie, he's gone black both in skin color and the way he talks. It's funny. And Cruise plays the head of the movie studio and all he does is cuss and be an *sshole. It's very funny.The movie is about this group of actors whom are in Vietnam to film a movie. In order to make it more realistic, the director takes the actors into the jungle. They have cameras and explosives already set up. So, the actors believe it's part of the movie, however, there is a group of drug dealers that are really shooting at them and capture a few of them. Stiller, is Tug Speedman, sort of washed up action star whom is playing the lead. The way he talks in character is very funny. Jack Black is the dope head whom is suffering withdrawals in the jungle. Some unknown is Alpha Chino, a rapper whom raps a rather dirty song: I love the *****.The director steps on a mine and Tug thinks it is fake and picks up his head and does all this gross stuff. It was gross but I found myself laughing. Another funny scene was Kirk telling Tug don't go retard all the way, that's why you didn't win the Oscar.Matt Mcconhay plays Tug's agent, has some funny scenes. But Nick Nolte was better as the crazy war vet that wrote the book Tropic Thunder. But we learn Nolte's character isn't telling the whole truth, which was funny. "You grew hands."FINAL VERDICT: I thought it was good. Certainly not for kids and not for people whom take things too seriously. But if you like comedies, I recommend this one.
This story just did not feel dramatic enough to really draw the viewer in. You already know what will happen before hand, but that doesn't make for a bad movie. United 93 was a good movie based on the 9/11 attacks that was good and suspenseful. But this film was no where near as good. The problem is most of the film has the 2 main characters under rubble with not much to do. A lot of scenes show the 2 wives worrying and hoping to get that call that their husbands are OK. There is only so much you can see of that before it starts to get boring. We get the fact that the wives are worried and waiting. It just makes for a boring movie.Overall, I don't think this story was interesting enough to be made into a feature film.FINAL VERDICT: Drab story. Not suspenseful enough. Watch United 93 to see a good movie centered around the 9/11 attacks.
This movie was OK, I'm sure a lot of teen boys liked it since it's all about Megan Fox's body. Jennifer, played by Fox, and her best friend ( the sort of nerdy Needy) go to a bar to see a band. Well this band is evil and they take Jennifer. Needy goes home and Jennifer shows up all covered in blood and vomiting black liquid. Needy's not sure what's wrong but the next day at school, Jennifer is as glam as ever. A couple of high schoolers are killed and finally Jennifer tells Needy what happened when the band took her. So the final is Needy trying to save her boyfriend from Jennifer.This movie was sort of written as a dark comedy. And I think Megan was good as the sexy twisted teen. One problem was most of the gore was off screen or if shown only for a second.FINAL VERDICT: Great for those into teen slasher type films.
It seemed like this movie was out to give rednecks a bad name. Not everyone who grows up in the south acts like these guys did. As a matter of fact, I didn't buy the whole story because these guys grew up with Amy and I don't think would act like that.The movie is about Amy and her new husband, David, going back to her hometown to live. He's a writer and more sophisticated than the locals. She has a hot ex, Charlie, that they hire to finish the roof on their barn. He uses his redneck friends to help him. Well, she's running around in skimpy clothes complaining to her husband that the workers are giving her "looks". David tells her to put some clothes on then. Things escalate between them all and finally they harbor the town pervert in their home. The guys come wanting him and all hell breaks loose. And David finds out he has a lot more in him than he ever thought.FINAL VERDICT: It was fair, but I wouldn't go out of my way to see it.
This is one of several movies that have been made about the famous Zodiac killer. There's not a lot of action, mainly a character study. The movie focuses on 3 guys searching for clues about the Zodiac. One is a detective, one is an editorialist at the paper, and the other is a cartoonist at the paper, Robert Graysmith. The story centers around Graysmith as he seems to be obsessed more than any one and spends lots of time trying to decipher the Zodiac's codes. They come up with a prime suspect but are never able to get enough evidence to bring charges. The movie is based on a book Graysmith wrote.FINAL VERDICT: If you've seen another movie about the Zodiac, then you know what happens. This is nothing new. But, it is too long.
The remake is pg-13 when the original was R. That makes a difference in horror movies. Plus the script reeks of stupid people doing stupid things. It brings the story down to a slasher type on movie, which it isn't.I won't go into the plot but instead comment on the silly scenes. Elizabeth just walks into a morgue at the hospital. Where's the security. And when others find her there, they don't question how the corpse got on the floor. Elizabeth falls into the water and gets tangled in kelp and drops the camera. Yet she never tells anyone where she lost it so it can be retrieved. Everyone tries to out run the fog in their car, yet have no problem taking back roads through the fog. Kissing a ghost, then turning into one. I never heard that before. Silly resolution of problem. Ghosts who write weird symbols in really bright red paint that make no sense.FINAL VERDICT: Bad script. I remember the original was scary, but I didn't think so much of this. This movie is only good to watch if you want to laugh at how stupid the characters are.
I thought this one was better than the second sequel but of course, the first one is still the best. This movie doesn't even have a "hangover". It's just about the same characters and revolves around Alan. The movie begins in a disgusting way, with Alan decapitating a giraffe. They really shouldn't have showed that.Any ways, Mr. Chow has stole some money from a gangster and the gangster believes the Wolfpack is the way to find it. He holds Doug hostage and wants the guys to bring him Chow. They track down Chow and rob a house and get back stabbed and then go back to Vegas. And even more hi-jenks ensue. Alan even meets a lady.FINAL VERDICT: It was OK, had some funny moments, but I don't think anyone expects it to be as good as the first one.
This movie follows the cliché of framed guy out to prove his innocence. Only difference is it stars A lister Michael Douglous and Keifer Sutherland brings his Jack Bauer clone to the big screen. Eva Longeria has very little to do and they didn't need to cast a recognizable name for that role.Douglas is a FBI agent famous for saving Reagan whom is assigned to protect the first lady; small problem-he's having an affair with her. Russian terriorts have a mole on the inside, another FBI agent. They assignate a FBI agent who may know what is going on- in come Keifer and Eva to investigate the murder. Mean while Douglas is being black mailed and has s snitch that tells him about the mole. Everyone must take a lie detector test, but he fails because of the affair. The rest of the movie is him on the run trying to find the mole and stop the assignation attempt on the President.At the end, I'd like to know how all the terrorists hid in the building waiting to shoot the President. Every building is always searched ahead of time . I didn't get that.FINAL VERDICT: This plot has been done many times. It's still OK but nothing to get excited over.
I thought this movie was supposed to have some comedy in it; however, it didn't make me laugh. It was hard to sit all the way through it because it wasn't very interesting. Will Smith, plays superhero Hancock, but unlike other superheroes, he is rude, crude, and creates a mess whenever he tries to help. He's caused millions of dollars worth of damage and has been sued by those he helps.One day he saves Ray and Ray has the idea to change Hancock's image so the public will like him. First, he tells him to go to jail so the public will miss him, then wear a superhero costume, and say good job to the police. Throughout, Ray's wife, Mary, keeps giving Hancock weird looks, so we know something is up. She knows him from the past and the movie just tells up why, no mystery to it.The ending just left a lot to be desired. I didn't find it very entertaining. Plus, I don't get why they made the special effects so fake. Hancock flying and throwing the whale looked too fake for today's special effects.FINAL VERDICT: Teens will probably like this but I'd say most adults wouldn't. Also, the language used is too vulgar for real young kids, say under 12. The word a ##hole is used too much.
I didn't care for this movie. I didn't find it funny. Even Jack Black couldn't make this movie entertaining. I found it boring. Jack Black plays Nacho, a worker in a monastery, who becomes a wrestler to raise money to feed the orphans and provide improvements to their lives. The wrestling scenes are not funny and neither is Black's weird accent. The side kick was OK, but that is all I liked about this movie.The hot nun adds little to this. Nacho tries to impress her but only looks silly doing it.FINAL VERDICT: Jack Black is usually good, but not in this. Don't waste your time.
and the setting is what make this monster chase movie better than others in the same genera. We have a group of underwater cave divers (which by the way must be one of the most dangerous jobs there is) setting up base camp in an unexplored large cavern. Many of the passage ways are underwater. A rock slide traps them and they must find another way out. Slight problem is the cave is crawling with monsters that look like relatives from the Alien movies. But luckily, for the group, one of their own gets scratched by one of these things, causing him to have heightened senses. This helps him lead the way out.The movie was pg-13, so it's short on blood and gore, but the atmosphere was perfect. You never know what's waiting behind a turn in a dark tunnel. Plus, I liked the actors. I wanted some of them to make it out. Cole Hauser should be a bigger star. He's good in what I've seen him in. But he's yet to find that big hit.FINAL VERDICT: Good creepy flick. I liked it and recommend it for your next cheap scare.
Natalie Portman and James Franco must have owed somebody and their debt was to appear in this movie. This movie is not funny and filled with bad language and crude jokes. The only amusing part was Franco's name, Prince Fabious. I mean a running joke in this is to have the bad guy kidnap the princess with the sole purpose of deflowering her in front of Prince Fabious.They also have pets, a raven and some kind of lizard. Lots in this movie were just thrown in without a purpose.FINAL VERDICT: This must be one of the worst films of the year. Don't waste your time with it.
I'm a big fan of Tom Hanks, but he picked a bad choice in starring in this film. The story was OK, but it wasn't great. Phillip Seymore Hoffman actually had a better role than Hanks. Hanks plays Charlie Wilson, a congressman whom visits Afganistan and sees the poor conditions refugees are living in and the suffering of children, etc.. He wants to help these people beat the invading Soviets. He seeks aid from super rich ex girlfriend Joanne and CIA agent Gust. He's also dealing with his own investigation because he's been accused of using cocaine and like to drink a lot. He uses his wits to get the money he needs to fund weapons to the Afgans. The budget starts at 5 million and at first he wants to get it doubled. The movie shows a couple of years down the line the budget has grown to a billion dollars.The acting was OK, with Hoffman being the best. Hanks southern accent is to over the top. Julia Roberts looks great in this except for the bleach blonde wig.FINAL VERDICT: Not exactly one of the most interesting stories to tell. It's OK, but nothing that's a must see.
like me, then you probably won't think this movie is that great. I had only heard of 2 of the acts shown in this movie, Chuck Berry and Etta James. And of those 2, Chuck Berry is the only one with some good songs and his character wasn't in the movie much and Etta James doesn't show up till the movie is half over. The main character is Muddy Waters, whom I know nothing about, so I didn't find his story very interesting. And Adrien Brody still has not been in a role any where near as good as the one he won the Oscar for.FINAL VERDICT: It was too long and I'm not a fan of these type of songs, so I don't recommend it.
This movie is very crude and crass with very frank language, but that's what makes it clever and better than recent films in this genera. The conversation the guys have about girls and dating sounded like something you would really hear close friends talk about in private. Things like that are what made it very funny. Seth and Evan are two high school seniors whom generally don't get invited to parties. But, Jules the girl Seth likes is having a party and after overhearing they have a fake ID to get alcohol invites them to her party. Their buddy Fogell, aka Mclovin, is the one with the ID, so the rest of the movie involves what happens when Mclovin goes to a liquor store to purchase alcohol and then their attempt to make it to the party. About everything that can go wrong does.The cops were a hoot. They take Mclovin to a bar, let him play with a gun, and drink on the job. I hope the real police don't act like that. And Seth and Evan have their own problems, they keep getting hit by cars and wind up at a party where cocaine is involved and get into fights.All 3 finally make it to Jules' party. Do Seth and Evan get the girls they pine for? Could this movie get any more vulgar? Watch to find out.FINAL VERDICT: If you think vulgar, crass teen films are very funny, then you will like this. I thought it was funny.
To describe this movie I would use the word different. It's a different sort of love story. It begins with Mirabelle and her meeting Jeremy. He's a quirky artist also. They go out a few times; he's more interested than she is. Mirabelle comes home to a gift and a card asking for a date. The guy, Ray, shows up at her work to tell her where. She agrees. He's much older but rich. She likes him and tells Jeremy she's seeing someone. Jeremy goes on a long road trip. Meanwhile, Ray thinks Mirabelle is a convenience; he sees her when he's in LA, but also lives in Seattle. She thinks he's falling in love, but he hasn't. He cheats on her but tells her. She doesn't break it off but is hurt. Another comment he makes about finding a wife and having kids finally makes her realize, he will never want this as a permanent thing. She finally breaks it off. Just in time, because Jeremy's back in town and wants to date again. The end.Good acting and just a tale of love that never really was.FINAL VERDICT: I recommend it. I didn't mind that it was sort of slow moving.
Statham stars as Jensen in another highly entertaining action film. Jensen, whom happens to be a former nascar driver, is framed for the murder of his wife by a sinister prison warden, Hennessey, whom is as cold as ice. Hennessey operates death races at her prison for profit. Drivers are able to use weapons and defenses. Her top driver, Frankenstein, gets killed and Jensen is his replacement. She has no plans to keep promises and by the third race, Joe and Jensen wisen up and plan to turn the tables on the warden.The car racing scenes are good. The camera work and angles make the races exciting. There are some violent deaths but they are not shown close up. Ian Mcshane is a good supporting actor. It's time he started showing up in a lot of big budget flicks. As with most Jason Statham films, this one has a cookie cutter ending, wrapped up nice and neat.FINAL VERDICT: Perfect for action enthusiasts, as long as you are old enough to see it.
I thought this was a pretty good scary movie. The first 45 minutes was the better part of the film as it told the story of Michael Myers as a kid. It shows his first killings on Halloween. Especially disturbing was when he beats up the bully with a tree branch. Just seeing a young kid be that violent and bloody up another kid's face was just wrong. Michael also kills his mom's boyfriend, his sister and her boyfriend. He doesn't harm his mother or baby sister. Michael is sent to a psych ward where he is studied by Dr. Loomis. He claims he doesn't remember any of it. After another violent outburst, flash forward 15 years. This is when Michael escapes and the movie is not as good. Once he gets his famous mask, he's just scary to look at on screen. Rob Zombie throws in some naked girls and one final long chase scene as Michael is after his sister. One main problem I had, how did Michael know exactly where his adopted sister would be. Simple, he wouldn't.FINAL VERDICT: Some good gore, scary moments, a good chase scene. Worth watching for horror fans.
is what this movie is about. Nick goes to play with his band and spots his ex, Tris, there with a guy. Norah knows Tris and in order to not seem like a loser picks a guy at random and kisses him saying it's her boyfriend. Well, she picks Nick whom still seems stuck on Tris. Norah loves the CD mixes that Nick has made for Tris, so he gives her a ride. But, Norah's friend, drunk Caroline, goes missing, so they are tracking her down throughout much of the film. Tris starts wanting Nick back because she is jealous. And also, Norah must contend with her ex. All the while the two are also trying to find out the mystery place their favorite band, Where's Fluffy, is playing.Two problems I had with the movie were first Caroline because the actress looks like she's 30 to me and she is supposed to be a high school senior. Second, they make Norah out to look cheap at the end because she's a teen and just met a guy and lets him do "some things." I don't think that needed to be in a teen film.FINAL VERDICT: It was OK. I liked the lead actors and they made it more interesting since there really wasn't a whole lot to the plot.
if it had a little better story and was rated R. This is a zombie flick, people want to see zombies bite and this movie cuts that all out. The Walking Dead on cable shows more gore than this movie.Brad Pitt is an ex war reporter. One day the city turns to you know what and he's asked to come back into the game. Of course, he doesn't want to, but in order to get his family to safety, he agrees to. First they must survive the night when things turn to chaos, and this was the best part of the film. Then they get rescued and taken to a big ship. Pit is sent on a mission to find the origin of the virus and of course when zombies are involved, this doesn't go as planned. He goes to Korea but the best special effects are in Isreal when the zombies form a ladder and all that ensues there.Then Pitt survives a plane crash, are you kidding me. But get beyond that and he happens to be within walking distance of WHO center and no zombies in sight. Then there is a pretty crazy solution to the problem, but there is an open ending. I wouldn't mind seeing a sequel.FINAL VERDICT: I like zombie movies so I did like this. Basically if they had made it R rated and shown zombie kills, etc... it would have been a lot better. But it's good enough to watch if you need an apocalypse fix.
one of the worst films of the year. It really wasn't funny, which of coarse, isn't good for a comedy. Jack Black, whom I like, just picked a bad script to work with. The only funny part was the cameo by Paul Rudd as Abel. Also, I didn't get the fact that the 2 main characters, Zed and Oh, are supposed to be cavemen, so that puts them in BC times. Well, when go on their travels, all of a sudden they are meeting biblical characters. That puts the timeline way off.The script for this was awful. I mean when you have Jack Black eating sh*t and that is supposed to be funny, really, that was just gross. The whole rubbing oil on the harry high priest, yuk.FINAL VERDICT: Not worth anyone's time.
This is not your typical western. The characters are more developed and do a lot of talking versus gun slinging. But there are some gun fights along the way. Town officials of Appaloosa hire two gunmen, Cole and Hitch, to be the new sheriff in town. They want them to get rid of Randall Bragg, an outlaw that killed the previous sheriff. Widow, Allison French, shows up and you think there is going to be a love triangle, but there really wasn't much of one. She takes a liking to Cole, but also gives Hitch mixed singles. The two are able to arrest Bragg for murder and the latter part of the film is Bragg escaping and Cole finding him and trying to bring him in. In the end Bragg seems reformed. The side plot involving Allison is she seems to go after any man with power. So, before leaving town, Hitch does Cole one last favor since Cole says he won't leave Allison even if she fools around.Ed Harris and Viggo Mortenson gave the best acting performance. You'd think they did come from the old west. The film does move slowly at times.FINAL VERDICT: If you like westerns, then I would say you will find this movie worth your time.
This movie was a little too long and Tarantino decides to rewrite history with the ending. But, just go along with it and I think you will enjoy this movie also. I see some of the reviews here are complaining about the wordiness of scenes. But that is what makes Tarantino's films different and more interesting. You need to pay attention to what is said. Also, there is a lot less violence in this movie that what we usually see in Tarantino's films. Brad Pitt's accent is ridiculous and his Italian was just funny.I thought part 1 was brilliant with the interrogation of the dairy farmer. I also liked the ending with the movie Shosanna made. There were just a lot of great parts.FINAL VERDICT: Check it out.
Di Niro and Pacino are back together in another cop film. However, unlike Heat, which was a great film, this movie basically sucks. If they wanted to do another film, they should have come up with a script for Heat 2 instead of this predictable trash with a very bad twist at the end. Tom and David are 2 cops that have been partners for years. A child killer gets off on a technicality and Tom gets the idea to plant evidence to get him arrested. This gives one of the two an idea to become a vigilante, and start taking out killers and child molesters whom did not get convicted. The question is which one of them is doing it. Since this is a badly written script, it is very easy to guess whom is doing the killing.FINAL VERDICT: A very bad script, only pluses is 2 big name actors, but still the movie isn't very good. I don't recommend it.
Anna Faris is by far the best thing about this movie. She's cute and likable in this. She plays, Ally, a recently fired girl whom has decided she is starting to become a slut. So she must limit her number (the number of guys she's slept with) to 20. She's also helping with her sister's wedding, so she is feeling that pressure to settle down. She enlists the help of her hot neighbor and fellow slut, Colin, to track down her previous boyfriends in hopes one has changed so that she will like him now. Of course, all the old boyfriends have something wrong with them and since she is spending so much time with Colin, you can see where this is going.FINAL VERDICT: a cute chick flick
I think kids may like this movie, but I didn't care for it. I didn't find it funny. What's supposed to be funny about seeing Eddie Murphy do his best Al Gore impression? He acts so wooden in this as robot Dave. Dave is really a space ship and little people (aliens) live inside Dave. They have come to earth to take the earth's ocean so get the salt reserves to save their planet. They are tracking an orb that fell into Josh Morrison's room. And what a coincidence that Josh's mom, Gina, just happens to hit Dave with her car and invites him up. Now who in New York City what invite some strange guy into their apartment for breakfast. Gina teaches the aliens about love and eventually, they don't want to destroy earth.FINAL VERDICT: Unoriginal. Meant more for kids.
I liked the concept. The idea behind this movie was not the same ole same ole. I thought it was original, and I really liked it. Matt Damen plays politician, David Norris. After losing an election, he meets Elise in the bathroom and she inspires him to make a great speech, setting him up to run again. He gets her number, but then the workers of fate intervene. It seems, they let him meet Elise just to inspire the speech, but the Plan says they are not to be together. David works endlessly to change the Plan. He still questions, why can they not be together. Finally, Thompson is sent and lays down the cold hard facts of what his life will be with Elise.Then the ending is David testing fate again and getting some help from one of his watchers. All the traveling through doors was cool.FINAL VERDICT: I liked the imagination it took to write this. And the overall question this film brings up is just what exactly is a higher power doing. Check it out. One of the best films I've seen in a while.
I thought this movie had a lot of fictitious things in it. The story is based on true events and people, but I don't think that everything that happened in the movie happened in reality.Also, none of the 3 main actors were very good. Bana had little chemistry with Portman or Johannason. Maybe it's because he is so much older. Also he looks to polished to be playing the gluten, Henry the VIII. It even seemed like the actors lost their English accent as the movie went on.FINAL VERDICT: The Tudors on shotime tell the Henry the VIII story a lot better. I recommend watching that series if you want to see something on this subject.
this movie should have been much shorter. I think there was only enough material to make a movie that was a little over 60 minutes, therefore, the writer and director added so much nonsensical filler, it made the movie too boring. There are extended scenes of the dancing at the wedding and the dishwasher challenge. It just lasted too long.Anne Hathaway was good at this and I see why she got some award nominations. She plays a very needy, attention seeker whom is home for a few days from rehab to attend her sister's wedding. The whole time there she wants to have the attention and eventually her sister gets ticked off. Also, we learn that she was responsible for her younger brother's death.FINAL VERDICT: Scenes are dragged out unnecessarily. It was too long.I don't think it is good enough to recommend.
I saw the original British version and found it quite funny. Before viewing this movie, I didn't realize it was a remake. But it didn't take long before I figured out. When the girl gives her finance the Valium before going to the wedding, I thought, this is just like another film I've seen. They even use the same dwarf in both films.Because I knew what was going to happen, I didn't enjoy it. You remake films that were made many years ago, not 3 years ago. But, I think if you never saw the British version, then you will probably like it or at least find some parts amusing.FINAL VERDICT: If you saw the British version, skip this remake. You'll be bored.
I have not seen the original so I'm basing my opinion on just this film, and it was awful. First Julianna Hough and Kenny Wormald are horrible actors. Yes, they can dance, but giving them speaking parts equals bad idea. Second, a movie about dancing should have a great sound trak and this one was terrible. The only good song was Footloose, which of course is from the original. There's also some kind of rap/dance song in which Hough looks like a slut. I mean, she is supposed to play a high school girl, and she is wiggling all over these guys very suggestively, it's just gross and inappropriate for a movie aimed at teens. Lastly, the plot is nonexistent. It's about a town that has banned dancing. Can anyone say snooze fest.FINAL VERDICT: Not worth anyone's time.
This is another hot chick stalker movie. I guess the difference here is it is a hot white chick after a successful married black guy. Lisa, the new temp, is after happily married Derek, whom is married to the hot Beyonce, Sharon. Lisa doesn't really do anything we are not expecting. She hits on Derek at the office and Christmas party. She gets into his car and throws herself at him and follows him to a company retreat. It doesn't take long to see that she is very delusional and believes she and Derek are seeing each other.Then the ending is a big fight between Lisa and Sharon. The one problem is Sharon didn't call the police are set off the house alarm when she had a chance. She even hangs up on her husband when talking to him instead of yelling the crazy psycho is in the house. So , that last fight scene is a little bit silly but this movie isn't trying to be serious. Besides everyone wants to see Beyonce kick !ss.FINAL VERDICT: This is one of those B movies you just like to watch with friends and make fun of all the stupid things the characters do.
This movie is about a victim who fights back. Jodie Foster once again plays a tough woman, Erica, whom is attacked with her fiancé in Central Park. He dies and she lives, but her life and the person inside is changed forever. At first, she is filled with fear to leave her apartment, but decides she must take her life back. She wants protection, and ends up buying a gun off the street. Erica goes into a store where a guy comes in and shoots his wife. She shoots him in self defense. She liked taking the power back into her own hands. Next on a subway, 2 guys start bothering her and without hesitation she shoots them both dead. The papers start reporting about a vigilante and she talks about it on her radio show. She befriends the detective working these cases. She has guilt over what she does but wants to put the bad guys out of business. And the cop gives us a surprise ending.FINAL VERDICT: Entertaining. It is sort of over the top, but interesting. I recommend it.
This movie needed a lot more blood and gore. Plus there is hardly any light in the movie and it was hard to even see what was happening on screen. You really can't tell much detail as to what the aliens or predator is doing. One thing I could barely tell was this time around an alien has hatched from a predator's body, so we got half alien/predators running around a small Colorado town. I wonder why predator space ships just can't keep from crashing into earth. But other than that this is all logical.Any ways, why did only one predator go to earth to take on the aliens. Surely he would have rounded up some of his buddies. The humans which are just in the background are stereotypical of all monster movies. Most don't have brains worth a flip.FINAL VERDICT: You have to be a fan of these franchise films to enjoy this movie.
Catherine Zeta Jones and Aaron Eckhart had little chemistry on screen. They certainly did not look like a couple falling in love. Jones, plays Kate, a great chef but doesn't let people in and doesn't want a boyfriend. For some reason never explained, Nick a new chef at the restaurant falls for her. Why, she is mean to him. He admires her as a chef, but the whole love story is not believable. Kate's sister dies and she must raise her niece. So, this adds more complications to Kate's life, which mainly just consists of the restaurant. She was rather a boring person to center a movie around.FINAL VERDICT: Dull, not much romance for a supposedly romance film. And it's definitely not a comedy.
This movie is about something that occurred during The W. Bush administration. I remember hearing something about, but being someone whom doesn't follow politics, I didn't know any details about it. This movie helps to shed light on it. Naomi Watts, plays Valerie, a CIA operative, whom goes on secret missions to the middle east and is covert. Her husband, Joe, is an ex-ambassador and knows about the country in Africa that is in question. There is some intelligence that this African country may have sold Iraq some uranium. The CIA ask Joe to go to Africa and see if he can come up with evidence of the sale. Joe finds no evidence and reports this. Also, there is a question about these tubes bought by Iraq as to whether they can be used to develop WMDs. Most experts say no. However, the US looks over this and basically announces Iraq may be developing WMDs and uses this to invade Iraq.Joe writes an article about his side saying he found no evidence of the uranium sale. To get back at him, someone in the government leaks his wife's name as being a CIA agent, meaning she's out of a job.Now that's the story this movie tells, which I'm sure was written by someone whom supports the left. And Sean Penn is in this and you know he's about as far left as you can get. So, who knows how much of the script may have been altered to soot Penn's agenda. But, it's still a well told story.FINAL VERDICT: The script made sense, even for someone whom didn't know the story. A good watch if you want a political movie.
takes place on home soil. This movie was good, but one problem I had was that I don't believe the military would declare a soldier dead so quickly without a body. There would be an investigation and it would take many months to declare someone dead without the body. So, if you can get by that unrealistic part, it is a good drama with good acting. Sam goes off to war leaving behind his wife, Grace, and 2 daughters. His brother, Tommy, whom has never been as good is there to look after them. After his chopper goes down, Sam is declared dead in what seems like just a few days. They have a funeral and everyone moves along with their life. Tommy becomes a father figure for the kids while helping Grace cope. But Sam is really alive and does a horrible thing that is impossible to live with once he is rescued. So the latter half of the movie is about his conflicted situation.FINAL VERDICT: A good drama, worth seeing.
I liked the way this movie was edited, with it showing the number of the days, going forward and then back in time. The clever scene where Tom attends Summer's party and its split screen with his expectations and reality.But, not enough happens in this movie. Tom gets Summer to go out with him. She says she wants it casual, but he really falls for her. She breaks it off and he's miserable for months after. Tom turns to his much younger sister to give the advice he needs.FINAL VERDICT: Slow paced, not a lot of action, but filmed in a unique style. Definitely a chick flick.
For some reason Jennifer Anniston just can't pick a great movie script. She keeps trying her craft at romantic comedies and continues to fail. She keeps picking scripts that offer nothing new and have been done many times. But because of her success with Friends, movie studios just keep throwing the same kind of movie role at her. She should really try something else, like an autobiography or really serious drama. About the only role I can think of that she was good in was the Good Girl, which was a drama. Imagine that: she should really try to get a role more like that.Any ways, another problem with this film besides been done a million times was that Anniston and Gerard Butler had little chemistry. Seeing them on screen makes you wonder how they would have gotten married in the first place. And in the end when you know they were going to eventually rekindle the romance, it was almost laughable. They just didn't have anything going for them.FINAL VERDICT: Sure it had a few cute scenes, but you've seen it before. Not worth a viewing.
but the movie should have been rated R to tell the story better. By this I mean, it is about teens brutally killing each other to win a contest; the violence sounds like an R rating to me. It would have been better if the kills were actually shown and more gore and blood to show the horror of it. Instead, it was really toned down to get a pg13 rating.The beginning was a little slow, like others have said, the game was the focus of the film and doesn't start to over an hour in. Some things that didn't make sense was how could they conger up fire and dogs that were real in the game, made no sense. If you could do that, why not wipe out all the people in the lesser districts so you don't have to worry about keeping them under control. I liked Woody Harrelson's character, he knew how to play all the power people perfectly. Did any of the other kids get help from their mentor? It was never shown.FINAL VERDICT: Fun, adventure film. I haven't read the books, but I bet quite a bit got left out because there wasn't room to put it in the movie. The only negative is it is set up for a sequel, and it will be many months before it's released.
I thought this was supposed to be more of a serious adventure story, but this version tries to much for the laughs and gets silly at times. Such as when Milady goes Matrix and slides along the booby trapped hall or when she twirls through the air dodging wires to get the diamonds. And then the two flying ships, I don't think those were around in 1800s France. And they made King Louie kind of a wimpy dude whose easily tricked.And I didn't think the acting was anything great. Even Orlando Bloom is just annoying in this.FINAL VERDICT: There's a lot better versions out there.
This movie was decent when compared to most action films made today. At least the plot made sense and you could follow it. While the stunts and cool gadgets were on the "wild" side, it wasn't too ridiculous. The movie to me was still enjoyable, even with the sneaking into the Vatican, the swinging from one skyscraper to another. It wasn't completely outlandish.I wish Owen Davian had been shown to be a little more evil. It would have helped with the audience desire to see Ethan Hunt beat him at his own game. Also Hunt's side kicks needed to be developed more and been more involved with the action.And I can't believe how little Kerri Russell was in this film considering when it was in theaters, she was out promoting it like she was the top female lead.FINAL VERDICT: I think it is worth watching if you are looking for an action film.
This movie mainly has some crazy, silly stunts. Most notable is when Frank some how drives his car on 2 right wheels and goes between two semis. This is just beyond absurd. And then you have him driving his car off the top of a train into the back of another train car. And of course the hand to hand fights. This movie lacked the jokes you expect from action movies like this. I know the first transporter was better.And of course, Jason Statham shows off his amazing abs. Every movie of his should feature that, and I think they do. The Urkranian girl was rather annoying and really did nothing in the film. Also, the bad guy wasn't much. He never did a lot except try to kill Frank in the end.FINAL VERDICT: Only worth watching on cable if you have nothing else to do.
Toby McGuire will always be Spiderman. I wasn't expecting much since I didn't think the last Spiderman was very good and I got about what I expected. And this time, I thought the special effects weren't even that good because it was just too cartoony looking. With all the Matrix slow-mo and Spidy dodging bullets and flying around, it just looked more like animation.In this sequel, Spiderman faces Electro and the Green Goblin yet again. One thing, they could have had anyone play Electro because most of his screen time is when he's been transformed and blue and not even looking like a real person. No need to give Jamie Foxx a big pay check. And could they have had anymore ridiculous, fake looking electric eels.And about half the film is Peter and Gwen's "sticky" relationship situation. It just makes for a boring storyline. Also Electro has no real motivation for hating Spiderman other than Spidy forgot his name. Just silly. At least Harry got a good costume for the Goblin this time.FINAL VERDICT: Don't pay to watch this. I saw it on cable. I think it is only good for background noise. I wouldn't recommend anyone run out to see it.
In this case no. Two super killers marry yet neither knows what they do. They each have cover jobs and are gone a lot. The movie begins with them in marriage therapy. They show how they met in Bogata. Hot! Each gets assigned to the same target. They try to kill each other not knowing the other's identity. The target gets away but they soon discover it was the other that tried to kill them. So the middle of the film is them trying to kill each other. There's an awesome gun and hand fight between the two as they wreck their home. But neither can kill each other. They make up and now got both their agencies after them since their cover is blown.The last 20 minutes with another gun fight was rather boring, not as good as the rest of the movie.And Jolie and Pitt are as hot as ever. Brad takes his shirt off several times and looks better then he did 5 years ago.FINAL VERDICT: One of the better big budget action films that has been released lately. The two stars are very hot and fun to watch. The plot is entertaining enough and there are several funny lines. So, I recommend it for simply a fun movie to watch.
Will Ferrel plays a dramatic part; he's not trying to be funny. After watching this, perhaps it wasn't such a good idea. He plays Nick, an alcoholic that just got fired and returned home to find out his wife left him the same day. How much bad luck can one guy have? So, he spends the rest of the movie sitting in a chair in his front yard. You see, his wife threw all his things on the front lawn before locking him out and disappearing. A neighborhood kid, Kenny, helps him with a yard sale and basically be his friend. Nick also makes acquaintance with the new neighbor, whose husband still has not moved. Then Nick gets more bad news from his AA sponsor, which really, really sucks, plus he learns he could have sued his employer for wrongful termination, but he screwed that up too.FINAL VERDICT: A movie about a depressing guy, not worth seeing.
but once you get to the third film in a franchise the newness has worn off, so it just isn't as good. Plus, I didn't get to see it in 3D, and it probably would have been cooler.In this movie, Harold and Kumar aren't that close any more. However, they are brought together by a gift for Harold delivered to Kumar. Things happen and Harold's Christmas tree burns down and it is very important to have one for his wife's family. So, most of the movie is about them and their adventures as they look for a replacement tree. Drugs are involved as well as the Russian mob, and of course, Neil Patrick Harris makes an appearance and it was funny. Then they through Santa in and that part was a little too silly. The claymation part was funny with the kid and squirrel.FINAL VERDICT: Fans of the franchise should like this, it just isn't original any more.
for a story that you already know how it begins and ends. Many movies have been made based on history and you know what will happen. Some are good and entertaining, while others add nothing new and are rather boring. This movie falls into the latter category. I like religious movies, but was rather disappointed in this. It just wasn't entertaining enough. No where near as good as The Passion of the Christ.First, the 2 lead actors just don't have that star quality. I thought the girl who played Mary was simply unappealing. She just doesn't capture the screen like you need in a character driven film. The story follows the gospels, which it should. But the way this movie was filmed, it should have been an hour TV show. Just not enough material for a 100 minute film.FINAL VERDICT: Boring, disappointing. I'm sure you could watch an hour show on the history channel about the birth of Jesus that is more entertaining than this.
I doubt much of this film is based on a true story. At the beginning it says based on a true story, sort of. I bet the only truth to it was there was an ex-model turned bounty hunter possibly named Domino.Anyways, it begins with Domino talking to Lucy Liu, who works for the FBI. Domino is being interrogated about what she knows about a theft of 10 million dollars. Through flashbacks, we see Domino as a child, then as a model, and how she became interested in being a bounty hunter. She basically tells 2 other bounty hunters off, Ed and Choco. They let her join the group. She's tough, can use any kind of weapon, and will use her good looks if needed.They get involved with a scam that Clarmont, a bailsman, has going. Along the way, the group starts a reality TV show, and that's where Ian Zering and Brian Austin Green become involved. They are sort of like hosts and must have been really desperate to appear in this.I thought the story was entertaining and it had some laughs. The editing didn't bother me. There's also a lot of violence, mainly using guns, and blood. It could have been a little shorter.FINAL VERDICT: Good enough to watch.
Keaton plays Daphne the mother of 3 girls. Her 2 oldest are married and she is so concerned about the youngest, Milly getting hitched. First of all Milly is in her early to mid 20s and Daphne is acting like she is an old maid. Milly dates but just hasn't found the right one, but her mother is so controlling she thinks she has to find a guy for her. So, she lists an ad on the internet. 2 guys start dating Milly whom met with Daphne. And what is gross is that Milly dates both guys but doesn't tell either one and gets very close with both. Talk about breaking hearts. It seems a little slutty for someone who is portrayed as sweet and successful. But what is worse is her mom is encouraging it.There is just a lot of things that are not appropriate going on. What about in the beginning when the mom and sisters are waiting on Milly and call her to find out she is getting it on with some guy. That is not cute, that is sleazy. Plus at the end, the mom does the same thing.Overall, it just wasn't a very good movie. Poor plot with characters you don't like.FINAL VERDICT: Keaton is like nails on a chalkboard. And Moore is a 2 timing two nice guys. Why would you want it to work out for Milly when she is deceiving 2 nice guys. Simply, a waste.
The plot of this thriller is written well enough that it made sense. Mel Gibson sort of over acted to me and his Boston accent was very annoying. Gibson plays a cop, Tommy, whose daughter comes home and has a secret. She is sick but before she can tell him anything, she is gunned down. It's assumed the gunfire was meant for Tommy. Tommy does his own investigation and finds out his daughter worked for a top secret company that was involved with nuclear weapons. Eventually, Tommy gets a CD that his daughter had made that spills all the beans. Since he figures he will never take down the company because of its involvement with the government, he gets revenge himself.The best scene was after he talks to this girl in his car, she gets out and is hit by a car. It was shocking and filmed well, but not exactly believable because how could she not she the car coming that fast before opening the door.FINAL VERDICT: If you see it on cable, it's worth a viewing.
I saw a few months ago. Funny Games was better than this one. This movie was OK but after a while, it got old. James and Kristen are a couple whom just arrived at their isolated home late at night. A girl knocks on the door looking for someone. She leaves, and James leaves to go buy cigarettes. While away, the girl comes back and the terrorizing begins. The masked strangers play psychological games. They continue knocking on the door and are already in the house. They take Kristen's cell phone but stay out of her sight. James makes it back and the terrorizing escalates. Soon, they realize these people are going to do more than just play games. Up till this point, I thought the movie was really good. But then all the strangers do is the same old thing. Make noises, write words on things, all the while staying out of view. And there was no surprise ending.FINAL VERDICT: Good in the beginning but it runs out of material. Still if you like films with a good chase, then I recommend it.
This movie was OK, but I wish it would have shown more of the brutality instead of cutting away, at least it would have more going for it. Anyways, the movie is about Prohibition. Jack and Forrest are making moonshine and a new sheriff arrives in town, Rakes. Rakes is mean and wants a cut of the profits in exchange for leaving the bootleggers alone. Well, they don't agree, so Rakes brutally beats Jack and Forrest gets his throat slashed. Rakes also tars and feathers other bootleggers and is just mean. Rakes kills a good friend of the brothers and they are after him and corner him at a bridge. Considering how mean Rakes was, you know what is in store for him.FINAL VERDICT: OK story, has some interesting stuff, wished more of the violence would have been on screen. Worth watching if you like these type of films.
screwing over the federal government. In this movie 3 women who work at a federal bank come up with a scheme to steal worn out money that is going to be destroyed. I thought the idea was pretty clever as shown in the movie. It was entertaining and amusing; however, you can't root for any of them because they are nothing but thieves. They want money, and feel they are entitled to it without working for it. Bridget who thought of the scheme appears to be an upper middle class woman whose husband has lost his job. Not only that they are in a lot of debt. And she thinks being a janitor will pay of the bills. The other 2, Nina and Jackie, may not be well off, but they have enough to live on. So, they certainly aren't sympathetic. And when you steal from the feds, you are going to jail for a long time. I thought the ending was too easy as to how they get out of it all.FINAL VERDICT: Entertaining, better than I thought. It's good for a popcorn flick.
I've never been very good at guessing the twist in a film, but I did while watching this movie. It's so obvious, it's nothing but a con. The plot is this guy, Charles, starts a flirtation with a woman, Lucinda, whom he met on the train. She seems so easy to talk to and seems interested. They start talking a lot and decide to have an affair. At the hotel they are robbed and Lucinda is raped. The robber begins blackmailing Charles for 100000 dollars. Lucinda refuses to go to the police. One thing leads to another and Charles discovers he's been conned. The robber and Lucinda, his girlfriend, picked the wrong guy because Charles wants his money back and will do what is necessary to get it, even murder.FINAL VERDICT: Too predictable, nothing special.
This movie told a tragic tail, but it just wasn't good enough for a full feature film. I see this as more of a TV movie. Ethan and his wife have 2 wonderful kids. One evening, the family stops at a gas station and the boy gets out to release fireflies. He goes near some bushes along the road to do this. Dwight is taking his son back to his mom's and is blinded by headlights. He hits Ethan's son, Josh, but doesn't stop. Ethan wants to get revenge on the driver he sees as a murderer. After several days, Ethan seeks the help of a lawyer with the investigation and just happens to go to the firm Dwight works for and gets Dwight as the lawyer to help him. That is just to unbelievable. So Ethan talks with Dwight and doesn't recognize him, but one night he sees Dwight wearing a baseball cap and all of a sudden knows absolutely sure that Dwight was the driver that called his son. So much so, he gets a gun and plans revenge on Dwight. That just isn't believable to me. It ends kind of how you expected.FINAL VERDICT: A decent story, but it sort of loses touch with reality in the middle. Too many coincidences. If you like Lifetime movies, you will like this.
I found this movie to be very uninteresting,just like most comic book movies I see. These movies just aren't for anyone unless you are a fan of the comic book. I didn't like the style of the movie, which the only color besides black and a dull gray was red. Why? I guess if you've ever seen the comic book you would know. Also, the plot was horrible. What exactly was the Octopus trying to do? It had to do with some experiment to make you immortal and that's how he and the Spirit survived bullets???? The only redeeming part was Eva Mendes. She looked really good in this.FINAL VERDICT: Stay away from this.
which leads to discovering whom one of his neighbors really is. In the beginning of this film, it has one of the most horrific car accidents I've seen in a movie. It's very sad. The way it is shown on film is from a neat perspective.Next, it is a year later, and Kale the teen whom survived while his dad died, has become troubled. He is sentenced to house arrest. To pass the time he puts his video camera and binoculars to good use and becomes a voyeur. The new neighbors have a hot teen daughter whom he spends a lot of time spying on and soon becomes friends with. But, it's Mr. Turner who soon becomes the most interesting neighbor. Kale, along with Ashley and his friend, suspect Mr. Turner is a serial killer. There is a lot of cat and mouse with Turner. Does he suspect Kale is on to something or is he seeing only what he wants to see? I thought the movie was suspenseful and thrilling like a movie like this should be. It was entertaining. Like when Ronnie goes missing in Turner's house and the next we see of him he appears dead. That had me fooled. And when Kale is exploring Turner's house and we see how twisted and how many secrets he had. That was creepy.FINAL VERDICT: Teens will really like this since it's teens who are the heroes. Although I do find it hard to believe Turner would blow his cover like he did, you think he would have just vanished. I definitely recommend this.
that after a while just gets to be too much. I thought this movie was pretty good, but the last 20 minutes go down hill. We are introduced to Bob Lee Swagger, the best sniper in the us military. He's who they call for all the secret missions that no one knows about. His partner dies and he quits the military. Several years later Colonel Johnson says the country needs his help. They've learned an attempt will be made on the President's life by a sniper and they want Swagger to show them where the sniper might shoot from, etc... Only problem, the President isn't the real target and the Colonel is out to set Swagger up as the shooter. Young FBI agent Memphis becomes involved because Swagger tells him it's a set up. Middle part of the movie is Swagger on the run, trying to recover from 2 bullet wounds. Once well he goes after Colonel and his associates. All the bodies do get kind of silly because the bad guys seem never to hit Swagger. Once Swagger turns himself in, that is when I thought the movie went down hill. The explanation of the rifle not being able to fire, what kind of FBI agents didn't investigate that. And then the final act of revenge was surprising.FINAL VERDICT: If you like all the violent action films, then this is for you.
one would expect to see on the Discovery or History channel. I just didn't think this story made a great movie, it seemed more appropriate for cable TV. The film tells the story of a made up character, Maya, whom guesses right on intelligence as to the location of Osama Bin Ladan. Problem is we know how it ends; so the ending with the special arms forces leading a raid at night was not suspenseful. There was nothing to hold your attention since you already know what they found in the compound. Then you have the made up ending of Maya looking over the body and then getting to go home, just cheesy.And I don't see why Jessica Chastain got such recognition for the role. I didn't think her character was anything special and neither was her acting.FINAL VERDICT: Nothing special about this. Should have premiered on the history channel.
This movie had a decent idea behind it, but it really needed to be edited down. At least 15 to 20 minutes could have been taken out, and the film would have flowed better and not have so many slow points.This guy, Curtis, begins to have visions about a terrible storm and other strange things, like his dog and best friend attacking him. He's really scared because he as a mom that was diagnosed with schizophrenia years ago. He fears he may be showing symptoms. No one else seems to notice the storms or lightening. So, he builds a storm shelter, using money he doesn't have.The main point of the movie is is Curtis actually seeing what may happen in the future, or is he going crazy? And the last scene was just too blunt, I didn't like the way it ended.FINAL VERDICT: It's a good OK, just needed to be more fast paced.
With stars like Billy Bob and Sean William Scott, and with a name like Wookcock, I was expecting some funny moments. However, I was sadly disappointed. This comedy was hardly funny, which spells disaster for any movie. No wonder it did so poorly at the box office.Billy Bob delivers a good performance as the balls buster tough PE coach whom we discover has redeeming values in the end. He's played this sarcastic, slightly mean guy in several films. Unfortunately, he was about all this movie had going for it. A corn eating contest is just not funny. And a guy under the bed while his mom gets it on is just gross.FINAL VERDICT: The laughs are few and far between, skip this.
I thought this movie was terrible. You only see the aliens a few times and they look like giant octopuses. No imagination with their design.The last part is 2 aliens hoovering over a gas station exchanging tentacles. Was that supposed to prove that aliens love too? The only danger from the aliens is when the two lead characters, Andrew and Sam, are in the back of a vehicle when an alien is picking up the truck in front of them. You don't even see what they do to the people.Then a third of the film is them being transported by boat by some Mexicans. Darkness and nosies are used to be scary, which they weren't.FINAL VERDICT: Just bad.
doesn't sound that interesting to me and guess what, it wasn't. Also, in order to enjoy this movie, you must get over the fact that it appears no men live in New York City. There isn't a single man in this movie. Even the scenes in stores and just walking down a crowded New York sidewalk feature all women. That's just a tad unrealistic.Any ways the film centers around Mary, whom finds out her husband is having an affair with a hot perfume girl. Her friends find out about it before her from manicurist, Tanya. I think Tanya was about the best character in the whole film, and all she does is gossip.The film stars a lot of older A list stars, whom you can tell have had more than there share of plastic surgery. Meg Ryan plays Mary, whom seems weak to me. She's just a spoiled rich New York housewife whom has neglected her husband and wonders why he's cheating. Just about all the characters are annoying. Especially, Edie with all her kids and she's having another one. And to end the film with her having the kid was so stero-typical. The writer couldn't come up with anything better.FINAL VERDICT: Housewives will probably like it since they can relate. A lot of people will think it has too many characters and it's not entertaining to see rich women complain about their lives.
but this movie was still entertaining. I liked how in the beginning we get a perspective of what the terrorists were going through as they prepared to take their own lives. The actions depicted on the airplane seemed reasonable with what could have happened. Once the hijacked the terrorists over take the cockpit in a very brutal fashion. All the passengers are sequestered at the back of the plane. They make phone calls and find out what has been going on with the world trade center. The high point is when the passengers decide they must try to overtake the hijackers. Unfortunately, we already know the outcome and that they did not have enough time to save the plane.I also liked the idea of showing what went on in the air traffic control rooms across the country. There were confused as to how many planes were hijacked and the military seemed to be disorganized. They couldn't get a straight answer from anyone in the beginning.FINAL VERDICT: Worth seeing. Tells a worth while story of true events that are still emotional watching.
I think Stallone and Schwarzenegger turned in two admirable performances in this film, much better than their recent attempts.Stallone, plays Ray, a guy that gets paid to escape prisons and find loop holes in security. He accepts a big challenge for a large paycheck, but soon realizes he's the one that's been scammed. Someone wanted him to be locked up in a unknown prison that seems impossible to escape. He teams up with fellow prisoner, Rottmayer, and they crack the seemingly impossible.FINAL VERDICT: I found it to be suspenseful and I just like when the "hero" finds a way to succeed when it seems highly unlikely. And I liked the way it's done in this movie. I recommend it for any action fans.
I liked this movie more than I thought I would. Sure the plot is crazy, but Bruce Willis just makes a good action star, and I found the movie entertaining because of him.John Mcclane goes to Russia to help get his son, Jack, out of jail. What he doesn't know is that Jack works for the CIA and is on a mission to free another prisoner. So John shows up, the CIA organizes the escape, and chaos ensues. Next thing you know John is central in trying to protect the guy the CIA believes has info on Cheranobyl. The bad continue to chase them through out the film, and you know a twist is going to come into play. Whom is really the bad guy? Then you have the ending with the helicopter, everything being blown up, driving a truck out the back of the copter, etc... in true Die Hard fashion.FINAL VERDICT: If you are an action fan, then I recommend this movie. You'll get some entertainment out of it.
If you love dogs, you'll love this movie. The dogs were the main stars. They are beautiful Siberian huskies. Paul Walker, while hot, is still as dull as ever as an actor. He plays the Antartic guide, Jerry, who oversees the dog team. The first part of the film shows Jerry taking a scientist out on a trip and the dogs save the Dr.s life when he breaks his leg and falls through the ice. A sudden storm hits and they evacuate, planning to return for the dogs. The storm prevents them from going back and the dogs are left tied to the chain. Jerry is heart broken and tries to find a way back with no luck. He can only hope the dogs find a way to free themselves and survive the winter. Over 5 months go by before Jerry is able to return to the Artic camp and finds out what happened to his dogs.The best scenes are with the dogs and what they do to survive. They hunt in packs and feed the weak. Unfortunately, a couple of the dogs don't make it. But the happy ending with dogs and owner was touching.FINAL VERDICT: If you love dogs, then see this. It's a wonderful family film.
That's the one word that comes to mind. This was painful to sit through. I would think even kids would get bored. It's not funny; and the characters are dull. I was expecting a cartoon like Shrek, that was clever, entertaining. But it's the exact opposite. At least it was only 80 minutes long.Four animals escape the zoo in NYC. They are caught and are being shipped to Africa. Their crates get knocked off the boat and drift to Madagascar. There they meet the lemurs. They experience the wild and the lion wants to eat the zebra, his best friend. And that's the whole story.FINAL VERDICT: Boring, I would never want to sit through this again.
that is what Clive should have told Elsa from the very beginning. This movie was OK and a little creepy to think that a scientist would act like her genetic experiment was human.Clive and Elsa and geneticists whom have created these blob type creatures they call Fred and Ginger. I am assuming something like that really isn't possible. Any ways then want to splice human genes with animals as the next step, which of course, is not supported by their employer. They do it anyway and create a blob that grows at a very fast rate, and eventually takes on more human characteristics, but still has a tail and deer like legs. This part is very creepy as they treat the creature, named Dren, like a real child. They move Dren to Elsa's family farm and she's getting stronger, bigger, and more aggressive. During this time, a presentation show casing Fred and Ginger goes horribly wrong, and you already know what is going to happen to Dren.The last half hour has some pretty sick stuff. I won't go in to detail but let's just say Clive turns into a sick freak.FINAL VERDICT: Not a whole lot of action. A good idea but not well executed and I could done without the freaky Clive situation.
This movie was just OK. It's a lot of the same ole thing so there is little suspense. Sly Stallone and his many plastic surgeries are back as boxer Rocky Balboa. Could his face be any more tighter? It really does look silly. But besides that, Rocky owns a restaurant, sees his son some, and strikes up a relationship with a new gal. He gets talked into going back into the ring and gets a match with the world heavyweight champ for a big pay day. We have all the training scenes just like from the other Rocky movies. And of course a very old Rocky gives the young champ a run for his money. Which, in the real world some 60 year old is not going to keep up with a 20 something. So, just suspend reality and the boxing match will be better.FINAL VERDICT: Nothing I would see again. OK, but I wouldn't recommend it.
This tongue in cheek movie turned out to be awesome. It was clearly played for laughs. It made it even better to have two well known actors in lead roles. Sam Jackson really made the film entertaining. It is one of the most entertaining films of 2006. Sure the snakes look really fake and the idea of someone being able to smuggle hundreds of deadly snakes on a plane as well as turn them vicious enough to attack humans left and right is ridiculous, but that is the point. It is supposed to sound completely absurd. There are 2 scenes that take place in the airplane restrooms that were 2 of the funniest scenes of all time. And instead of lucking out and having a passenger who is an ex F16 pilot to land the plane, we have an avid Playstation player.FINAL VERDICT: One of the most entertaining films to come out in a while. It made me laugh more than any Adam Sandler comedy. This is a must see.
The movie begins very slowly as we are introduced to 3 Americans traveling on a bus in Brazil. The bus crashes and they are stuck for a while. They team up with a couple of guys from Europe and trek down to a gorgeous beach. They run into a couple from Sweden and decide to stay there and party at the bar and catch another bus.Morning comes and the Swedish couple is missing. They have been robbed and drugged. A local, Kiko, tells them he will take them to a safe house located in the jungle. When they reach the house, shortly afterwards is when they discover what is really going on."SPOILER" Kiko really took them to a crazy surgeon's house who is going to harvest their organs to sell to the rich. There is one fairly graphic scene of the surgeon removing kidneys from a girl. But, it certainly is not a very gory movie.Kiko comes back and helps them escape. And the rest of the movie is the group running from the bad guys and swimming through underwater caves. That part was sort of suspenseful.FINAL VERDICT: OK for a slasher type of movie, but not a whole lot of action. The first part is a little too long. They could have shown more gringos being kidnapped.
I like some kids movies like this, but I didn't find this one to be very funny. First, you would think the target audience is 8 year old kids, but the animals tell some adult humor not appropriate for young kids.I like Kevin James in some films, but I didn't think he pulled the role off. I mean when you have a guy take a talking gorilla to dinner, it's hard to make that work.Plus, the girl he liked, Stephanie, was so mean to him on the beach. There is no way a guy would want to take someone like that back.FINAL VERDICT: There's a lot better movies with talking animals out there, watch one of them.
I usually think sci-fi movies have too many plot holes, and this one has some, but for the most part it makes sense. Of course, they are using the plot of groundhog day set in an alien invasion. One big plot hole is why didn't Rita leave herself notes so she wouldn't have to repeatedly meet Cage over and over. And the whole part where she and the scientist dude figured out some aliens are Alpha protecting an entity called Omega, was very far fetching. But anyway it was cool to see how Cage improved day to day to get further on the battlefield. Considering we are talking about invading aliens, why did others, like the general, find it so hard to believe Cage and Rita about time travel.Anyway, it ended how it should with Cage waking up again except this time, things are different.FINAL VERDICT: Pretty good sci-fi with cool special effects. Definitely one of Cruise's better films in the past 10 years.
This movie had its moments of laughter and irony. From the cancer ridden Marlboro man accepting the bribe, to Nick being kidnapped and forced to wear many nicotine patches, to the boss in Winston-Salem. The film was short and told a story without a lot of needless scenes. I prefer it that way. I don't know why such a big deal was made of Katie Holmes. She's hardly in it and isn't convincing as a slutty reporter.I also liked the part where his friends are lobbyists for gun control and alcohol prevention. They argue over whose product kills more people and therefore who has the harder job to sell the product to the public.FINAL VERDICT: Unique satire. I liked it because it is not out of some cookie cutter formula.
I finally saw this movie, and once was enough. There is nothing new and the story jumped around. It's 400 years in the future and a virus has wiped out most of the human population. Some scientists found a way to build an enclosed city and stop the virus. Now the city is ruled like a dictatorship and people turn up missing quite often. There are a group of rebels fighting to bring down the dictatorship, ie Trevor Goodchild, and Aeon Flux is the most gifted of the rebels. I never understood if she was supposed to be part machine or what. She can perform all kinds of flips and has superhuman strength as well as have this giant black eyeball she can bring up and see tiny particles floating in water.She discovers a conspiracy as to why certain woman are killed by the government. And because she won't kill Goodchild, she is now a target. The parts with the Handler made little sense to me.Special effects were OK, but nothing outstanding. And they are not good enough to hold your interest in a messy story.FINAL VERDICT: I wouldn't waste my time watching this.
more of an adventure type of movie. This movie is basically about 3 guys that go on an adventure for a year. They are birders and competing to see who can see the species of birds in the USA. The champ, Kenny, leaves his wife to do this which causes major problems. Then there is Stu, the retired businessman, whom is the only one that can actually afford to do this. And last, Brad, whom maxes out credit cards to pay for this. Anyways, all 3 go around the states trying to get pics of rare birds. They go to a remote Alaskan island, the pacific northwest, canyons in the west, just everywhere, which is why I say it is an adventure type of movie.I thought it was OK, but I can see how some may find the subject matter boring. I'm sure other birders will love this and I wonder how close to the actually story this movie was.FINAL VERDICT: Skip it unless you're a bird fan.
This is the case in which the book is better than the movie. The movie was OK, but just lacked that wow factor. You kept expecting some big adventure but that never came. And it was more of a drama, not a cute, funny kids movie. The film was off base with its target audience-kids. The 3 kids go to Count Olaf's and the only scene we get of him trying to kill them was with the train. Weren't there more attempts in the book? Then the kids go to stay with the uncle, and then Aunt, but not a lot of entertaining things happen.As for Jim Carrey, it was like he was playing a toned down Ace Venture. He just wasn't that entertaining.FINAL VERDICT: OK, sort of boring, I wouldn't watch it again.
This movie turned out to be a little better than I thought. Steve Carroll was funny as usually. The animals were cool too. Some of them were real, but a lot of them were computer generated. I thought the film sent a good message. That spending family time is important and that is what God was trying to teach the Baxter's. I liked the part that Evan couldn't cut his hair or beard and then then the Moses robes added to the effect. I have to take away some praise though with the whole ark floating though Washington DC. That was just plain silly. Wanda Sikes gets some good one liners too.FINAL VERDICT: More geared for kids. It's OK to watch once, but not good enough for more viewings.
Not much happens for this to be a movie. Now I know why no one saw it at the theater. It was like watching an entire season of the OC without the juicy bits. Jennifer Aniston plays Olivia who is a maid. She's friends with three other couples who are all very wealthy. They don't seem to have anything in common with Olivia, but the movie never explains how they got to be friends. One of the characters even comments he doesn't think they have anything in common with her. Two of the couples don't seem to be very happy. Jane seems to be whiny and mean toward life and everyone. I don't know why they even liked her except for the free clothes. Olivia goes out with a trainer and they seem to have nothing in common yet she sleeps with him and even pays him when he helps her clean houses, but he doesn't do hardly anything. He has sex with her and gets paid but he's not an escort. She finally wises up and catches him cheating and starts dating one of her house clients. She finds out he's rich. The end.Not much excitement at all.FINAL VERDICT: Not entertaining. Too boring to be a movie.
but that doesn't mean it's bad. I was pleasantly surprised with Doom. I was expecting a really bad movie with cheesy effects and a bad story. But I found the story to be interesting. It was similar to Resident Evil and Aliens. I group of soldiers teleport themselves to a Mars science station after receiving a message for help. They get there to discover a bunch of dead scientists. The question is: what killed them? The soldiers are joined by a scientist who is the sister of one of the soldiers, Reaper. The Rock, plays Sarge, the leader who turns out to have an evil streak in him. To cut to the chase, they find videos that show the scientists had been experimenting on humans by giving them an extra chromosome. In someone who is good, the chromosome turns someone into a super human. But if the person is evil inside, they are turned into a monster.The middle of the film was like Aliens as the group explores the station to be picked off one by one. There was some gore, but not really that graphic. The Rock has the best line "I'm not supposed to die." I laughed and laughed. Because it was too early for the leader to die in a monster film. Of course, he showed up later for the final confrontation with Reaper. Both have been infected, but whose smart enough to survive.FINAL VERDICT: Decent for a movie based on a video game. The plot wasn't original, but it had an entertaining story. It's always fun to see how the monsters will get to people.
and by too nice I mean, instead of playing dirty tricks to try to win the manager job at the new store, they are basically nice to each other. Only toward the end do they do some slight dishonest things.This movie is about 2 grocery store workers who both want the manager position at the new store opening up. One, Doug, has been at that store for a while and told he's a shoe in. The new guy from Canada, Richard, is older and seems to be working the management. He gets more in store shifts, while Doug is left working the parking lot. Basically, he is suppose to chase off gangster looking, cussing kids, but even if they buy a candy bar, he's supposed to look the other way if they are being a nuisance. There are always negative comments in the comments box; those were funny.Both Richard and Doug are pretty nice to each other; the only negative things are Richard acts like he was hurt after Doug throws a tator tot at him and Doug hides some of the negative comments. But, Richard's mouth and his recreation drug use are what does him in.Sean William Scott is better than this. I thought he was really going to be big after American Pie. He really needs to be taking better roles than this. He can be really funny with the right film.FINAL VERDICT: Not a lot was laugh out loud funny. It was amusing but nothing great. I'd only recommend watching this if there is nothing else that seems good on.
It was pretty good and stars Christian Bale, whom was very good in this as in most of his films. Bale plays, Dieter, a downed airplane pilot over Laos during the war. He is captured and held with some other POWS. He is determined to escape and comes up with a way to pick their handcuff locks and a plan to escape. A lot of the middle of the film is the prisoners bonding, which make you think they are together in this, but when it comes time to actually escape, Dieter finds himself alone with only on of the other guys, Duane. The others run off. The latter part of the film is Dieter and Duane traveling through the jungle trying to flag down helicopters. And a miracle happens when one finally helps him out, although it was to late for Duane by that time.FINAL VERDICT: Bale really makes this movie work. He kept it entertaining and the way he survived and made it back was miraculous. So, if you like war movies, then check this out.
The one problem with this film is it portrays Hannibal the Cannibal's transformation into a serial killer as being based on revenge instead of just wanting to feel the power of killing, which is how he is portrayed in the Silence of the Lambs. Killing based on revenge makes it much easier to get caught and Hannibal is to brilliant for that.The movie starts with a young Hannibal. He sees his parents killed in the war and his sister is eaten by soldiers for survival. He is saved by the Russian soldiers, but is scarred for life. He escapes an orphanage and tracks down his Japanese Aunt in France. Hannibal is now a young man whom is in medical school, but needs to track down his sister's killers and seek revenge. He finds them one by one and kills them in evil, gruesome ways. His Aunt knows what he's doing when he kills a local that harassed her. But she protects him, perhaps because all her family is dead too.So, the rest of the movie is more or less a revenge film with some extra bits such as Hannibal tearing flesh and eating it. However, it was silly when he writes an M on that guys chest. That was hokee.FINAL VERDICT: It was OK for a revenge film. Just don't expect to see the brilliant Lecter as he is portrayed in Silence of the Lambs.
just not that good. This wasn't a good horror movie. First, the description of the film describes it as a girl is possessed by a demon, but that is not true. She is haunted by a ghost of a spooky little boy. And everything in this movie seems to be recycled; it offers nothing new. The movie incorporates Nazi experiments concerning twins with somehow creating a crossover with the spirit world. And now this demon is trying to cross by using first this girl's(Casey) grandmother, then mother, and now her. The very ending could be seen a mile a way as to why the demon had picked that time to being haunting Casey.FINAL VERDICT: Not scary, not that entertaining. The hottest part of the film was Casey in her undies, which doesn't bode well for a horror film.
This movie exploits the dirty side of figure skating so to speak. It's entertaining and amusing. Not a great comedy, but certainly good enough. Will Ferrell plays his usual character stereotype. Jon Heder plays Jimmy, the rival to Ferrell's Chazz. Both get kicked out of men's figure skating after a funny series of events. They both get loser jobs. Jimmy's coach comes back into the picture, and they come up with the idea of pairs skating. Jimmy can't find a girl in time, so he takes Chazz as a partner. Of course, hijinks ensue, since the two can't stand each other. The Van Waldenberg's are the leaders in pairs figure skating and they do all they can to sabotage Chazz and Jimmy. The funniest scene of the movie is when Jimmy calls Katie to ask her out for a snow cone. Chazz tells Jimmy what to say and Katie's brother and sister tell her what to say. That was so funny.FINAL VERDICT: This movie is like any Will Ferrell movie, so if you like his other films, you will like this one.
The problem with this movie is that it was just like the first two. About the same type of things happen, so by the third time, it's just boring. This is a prequel just like the second film. This time the two sisters are little and we see how the haunting began. This time, it is the mom's boyfriend that carries a video camera throughout the film. Weird things happen and these people just act so what. I think I would be trying to perform an exorcism. Then the surprise twist happens when they go to the grandmother's.FINAL VERDICT: Just like the first two. At least it is a short movie, so if you just like the concept of these movies, check it out.
The plot behind this movie was not very good. And once again this movie asks the question," How did Hayden Christiensen ever make it in acting?" He's about as bad in this as he was in the Star Wars films. He just has no emotion and is like a block of wood on screen. And Rachel Bilson plays the typical girlfriend in movies like this. She's there mainly to be rescued and give the "hero" a reason to do something totally stupid.Hayden plays David, a jumper, meaning he can transport his body and material things to where ever he wants. He finds out there are others like him. There is a group called the Paladines who want to kill jumpers. Why?? We have no idea except that lead Paladine Roland says only God should be able to do what you do. Roland has all these sophisticated tools to find jumpers and can even go with them through there time holes.One question I had is why did the director think putting white chalk all over Samuel Jackson's hair would be a great idea. Jackson must have been buddies with him; otherwise, I don't know why he would take a role in such a bad film.FINAL VERDICT: Awful story, I'd skip this.
This movie starts off great with The Rock and Sam Jackson playing the bad $ss cops getting all the bad guys while creating explosions and lots of damage. Then they jump off a building and are out of the rest of the movie. I think this movie would have been better if those 2 had been in the entire film. So after they are gone, we have the other guys. Will Ferrell, is Allen, a police accountant happy with paper work and Mark Wahlburg, is Terry, known as the guy whom shot Jeter. The movie has got laughs but they sort of get more silly and less funny as the movie plods along. Like is it really that funny that Terry still can't believe Allen has such a hot wife.FINAL VERDICT: If you like silly comedies and Will Ferrell, check it out. I thought it was OK.
because it was so entertaining. I finally saw Transformers and it was much better than I thought it would be. The special effects were awesome. The robots looked real, as though taking up space. I also loved how they incorporated lots of humor. That's what made the movie for me. From the songs the car picks to play with Sam and Mikaela, to the sector 7 agent, and Anthony Anderson. To many funny scenes to name. Humor plus action makes for great film, especially if it has a long running time. This movie used the same formula that made Spiderman so great.I liked the lead actors in this. In a action movie, you usually don't really care for them, but Shia and Megan work great in this. It's been a while since I've seen a 2 plus hour movie that didn't seem like it was way too long. One criticism I had was at times, it was just too loud, a signature of Michael Bay films. Tone down the hard rock music.FINAL VERDICT: Great action flick. Check it out.
Gere and Danes star as 2 workers for the department of public safety who keep track of released sex offenders. Gere, who plays Babbage, refers to them as his flock. Gere is an over obsessed vigilante whom is on his way out. He is training, new comer Allison, to take over his job. Gere sees his flock as very sick, disturbed puppies. He asks them questions that are not on the list, and tries to act like the police and solve crimes. He keeps getting warned for this behavior, hence the reason he is being replaced. During his final few days on the job, a young girl goes missing, and Babbage is sure it is one of his flock whom has gone astray. Him and Allison narrow a list down and discover some of the offenders have gone AWOL. So, he decides that he needs to track the missing girl down rather than help the police. That part is a little far fetched.There is some sick, twisted stuff shown in this film. Like when Babbage and Allison go to this building where a bunch of sick people do disturbing things to each other. Also, there are the people who kidnapped the girl. At the end of the film, we see what sick freaks they are. However, I wouldn't call this movie excessive because not really much is shown on film.FINAL VERDICT: If you like thrillers and films about serial killers and cops chasing killers, then you will like this.
I hated all the shaky camera shots during the battle scenes. I bet it gave someone a seizure, it was so nauseating. I don't like it when you can't even tell what is going on during a battle. The other bad part of the movie was the script. It was just a bunch of card board cutouts that want to kick some alien @ss.The only attempt at character development was Eckhart's character, Nantz. He has recently put in his retirement papers, but the alien attack calls him back to duty. We learn he's still torn up about losing some soldiers that he was in charge of in Iraq.The film shows the aliens, but there are no close ups and it's so dark, you can't tell much detail. They should have done like Alien, in which at the end, you can really tell what the ET looked like. And why does everyone alien film have to do with water? Can they not come up with something else? FINAL VERDICT: Only for action junkies. I wouldn't recommend it.
When this movie came out, I remember hearing about a bunch of bad reviews for it and that it was supposed to be stupid. Well, I have a completely different opinion. Sure, some things are silly, but they are supposed to be. I found it to be very funny. I thought Zohan was the best character Adam Sandler has done. I loved the jean shorts, the catching the fish with his *ss, the soccer kicking the cat, the shampooing the old ladies, just the way her acts at the hair saloon, and giving all the old ladies a happy ending, the name Scappy Coco, the neighborhood watch, and on and on. It was all very funny. This movie had one of the funniest lines I've ever heard when Zohan says to Dahlia, " I want to make sticky with you", like that was some kind of sweet compliment. And then she acts like she's not really offended by it.As for the plot, Zohan is a top Isreal spy. He gets tired of fighting the bad guys, so he fakes his death and moves to New York to be a hair dresser. He's recognized in New York so he must deal with the Phantom again. Also, he takes up the fight against the big businessman, Walbridge whom is out to knock down the buildings in the area where the hair saloon is.FINAL VERDICT: I thought it was hilarious, see it.
Aniston is miscast and doesn't really fit the role. Since leaving Friends, she just can't seem to find a good movie role. And playing a semi-love interest to Kevin Costner, whose character had slept with her mother and grandmother was just plain gross. Aniston is too thin for her age and it was very hard to believe that the sister and dad in this were related to her because they look nothing alike. It's is like Aniston tries to find roles for a 25 year old when she is almost 40. She needs to find age appropriate roles.And it is the whole Hollywood idea of thinking since Jeff takes Sarah back after finding out she cheated on him with some old guy. It was just gross.The few laughs come from Shirley Mclaine who plays the sarcastic grandmother.FINAL VERDICT: Another Jennifer Aniston bomb.
I thought this movie was OK. It was fun and entertaining, but also sad. Jesse is an outsider at school. The new girl, Leslie, who lives across the street, becomes his friend. They live by these woods and find a rope that swings across a creek. Once crossing the creek, they find an old tree house and begin to use their imagination to entertain themselves. They create the world of Terabithia and all its inhabitants. Squirels are really creatures throwing grenades(pine cones) at them. They encounter "tree trolls" and dragonflys that are soldiers. It's just a fun game to them.One day, Jesse is invited to the museum and he doesn't invite Leslie. When he gets home, he learns Leslie drowned in the creek. He must deal with his guilt and take the lessons he learned from Leslie with him.I thought the death of Leslie was tragic. It brought a tear. I thought the acting was good and this movie was entertaining.FINAL VERDICT: Not for really young kids. I thought it was good enough to recommend.
and make creepy, supernatural movies with a twist and some comedy thrown in. I'm so glad I did not pay to see this. This was even worse than the Village. Since I loved Signs, this movie is such a disappointment. It did have a few comedic moments, mainly with the fast talking Japense daughter and her mother and also the know it all movie reviewer. But, it still had nowhere near the laughs Signs had. The movie is a fairy tale, in which all the rules are made up as the film moves along. The idea of saving a narf just wasn't that interesting to me. The scrunts, the grass wolves, were the only cool things in this. Howard does not have the screen presence to be a lead role and is not entertaining. Maybe if a good actress had played the lead, it may have made for a better film. And why did her hair go from bright red to blond at the end of the film. Did the budget for hair dye run out?Night gives himself a much bigger role than previous films. I don't think that is a good thing. Mainly because, you know he is the director and it really distracts from believing his character.FINAL VERDICT: If you want to see how a good writer and director can really choose the wrong material and make a bad film, then check this out. But, if you don't want to ruin the greatness of Night for yourself, then skip this one. There is always his next film to look forward too.
First, Kit Harington is a rather petite fellow, to be playing a kick @ss gladiator. The casting was not good. And why did it seem like everyone was trying to pull off an English accent. That was the silliest part of all. But get past these major blemishes and you have a typical Hollywood romance.Milo's parents are killed by the evil Romans and he becomes a slave. He wins his way to Rome because he can easily kill gladiators 3 times his size. Then he's transferred to Pompeii and catches the eye of the Lady Cassia because he kills a horse. Keifer Sutherland plays the evil Roman senator whom still is mean after the volcano erupts. Of course Keifer uses evil tactics to get the hand of Cassia but before he take off with her, the volcano erupts. So you have the escaped gladiators, including Milo, whom must save Cassia before going to the harbor. But the harbor, gets wiped out but Milo still has Keifer to deal with. No one seems to care that lava and explosions are just happening everywhere. It's like I'm a Roman and you're a slave so we must fight.FINAL VERDICT: Silly accents, special effects, over the top love story, bad casting. It's one of those movies that people love because it's so bad. I say check it out, it makes for great background noise.
This movie was fairly good. It certainly isn't the best musically to come along in the past several years. For starters, it sorely lacks a little comedy. And I didn't think any of the characters were that great; I didn't want to root for any of them. I thought Jennifer Hudson sang the 2 best songs in the film. I really liked changing. I thought it was weird how most of the time the songs were part of the music act, then they would start having the characters sing as they were talking to each other and arguing. It seemed out of place. Beyonce Knowles wasn't anything great. She sure doesn't capture the screen like a leading lady should. Even though Eddy Murphy was over the top, he probably did the best acting.FINAL VERDICT: Worth seeing, just not as good as Chicago or Mulin Rouge.
I thought this would be some type of murder mystery, but it wasn't. The movie tells you who killed Estrada half way through. The movie moves slowly with not a lot of action. That was the main problem with it. The story had a good premise, but wasn't entertaining enough. The latter part of the movie is mainly set in the dessert with not a lot to look at. Jones and Pepper were good in their roles. But, it was rather gross to think about someone hauling around a dead body in the dessert. I don't care if they did put antifreeze in the body. The stench would be horrible. It just doesn't seem like someone who wasn't crazy would do that.FINAL VERDICT: OK, but slow. If you don't care if a movie has a slow plot or are a fan of Tommy Lee Jones, then you may want to check this out.
I really liked the first film, but the newness has worn off this time around. It's the same concept except this time Ben Gates must prove his great grandfather had nothing to do with the assassination of Lincoln and instead knew the where abouts of another secret treasure, the city of gold. All the characters from last year are involved with the addition of Gates' mother. They look for clues in Europe, Washington DC, and Mount Rushmore. Ed Harris plays the bad guy who wants the treasure for himself. As to how they get from London to Mount Rushmore, they follow clues, exactly like the first film. And the comedy was very lackluster. A few of the comedic scenes worked, but many didn't.FINAL VERDICT: Just not as enjoyable as the first one. The same plot points are used and little creativity is seen.
I thought for the most part that this movie was believable. You know that terrorists kidnap Americans in the Middle East, so I thought it was plausible that they kidnap a guy and bury him in a coffin demanding a ransom. So, Paul, a truck driver, wakes up in a coffin with just a lighter and cell phone. The one thing not believable is that he is able to use the phone underground to call the US, even 911. It doesn't appear to be some kind of satellite phone. Anyways, Paul talks to his kidnappers and forced to make videos. He also talks to a British guy in Irag that is trying to find him in time. Then at the end, you think the whole thing is coming to a resolution, only to find out Paul is tricked in the end. That part was great.FINAL VERDICT: It was a fast paced movie, even though it was just a guy battling darkness, a snake, fire, and dirt. It was tense and I recommend it.
but still was V supposed to have superhuman powers. My view is, was V supposed to be a super hero or an average joe. He gets shot at and survives. Can knock down doors with no problems. Can sling knives with ease. We see him in flashbacks walking through fire and he survived some kind of experimental testing with a virus. So, did the virus testing make him have super powers. It just didn't make sense in spots.Plus, why would Evie come back to V after he tortured her and kept her in a tiny dark room for months. She thanks him for that. Once again, didn't make a whole lot of sense. And I can't believe Natalie Portman shaved her head for that role. It's not like it was some kind of ground breaking performance.I thought the story trying to be told was too much for a two hour movie. It would have made a lot more sense if it was filmed as a 12 hour HBO series. Too much happens with the plot and it just gets confusing.FINAL VERDICT: I didn't think it is worth watching. The story isn't well put together.
This movie was much better than I expected. Mylie Cyrus is certainly no great actor but she does a believable job in this once she drops the tough girl act. She plays Ronnie, a girl whose been hurt by her parents divorce. She is very talented at playing the piano, earning a place at Juliard, but isn't sure if she will go since she hasn't played since her dad left. Ronnie and her younger brother, Jonah, are spending the summer with their dad at his beach house. Ronnie has no plans to make nice with her dad. She meets a cute guy, Will, that she blows off at first, but once she loses the tough girl act, they start dating.Then, as we suspect, we find out everything isn't so great with her dad and he is writing a last song for her. This is where the tear-jerker scenes come in. The movie certainly tries to be quite sad and everything gets wrapped up at the end.FINAL VERDICT: This movie is for fans of Cyrus and teen girls who want to see a sad romantic drama.
This was a simple story. Two foster kids team up with some friends to save stray dogs from the pound by putting them in an abandoned hotel. They rig the hotel with all these devices, like a way to feed the dogs at one time, entertainment for the dogs, a moon to howl at, etc... One of the kids works at a pet store which is how the kids are able to afford to buy all this dog food. So, of course, conflict ensues when the foster parents find the dog hotel and call the pound. Then it is up to the kids to save the dogs again.Nothing original about this movie. The dogs were the best part for me. 10 year old kids will probably like the story.FINAL VERDICT: I'd only recommend it for kids.
This movie was about like watching one of VH1s Behind the Music except call this behind the Artist. It's another tale of a rich, famous beautiful girl whose life falls apart mainly because of drugs and her dysfunctional family. Edie Sedgwick comes from a very rich family and is living in New York. She gets involved with Andy Warhol and being in his movies and his scene. They go out clubbing and she gets started into heavy drug use. She spends money like crazy and eventually her trust fund starts to run dry. She thinks others should feel sorry for her because she's been in a psych hospital and one of her brothers killed himself there. Another brother died in an accident. Warhol eventually gets tired of her and she's basically a mess, begging for money.The acting was good in this, especially Guy Pearce. I don't know much about Warhol since I don't give a hoot about art, but from what I've read, he seemed to have a dead on personation. And Sienna Miller played about the only role she's believable in, a messed up socialite.FINAL VERDICT: If you don't know much about Warhol, I say skip this.
I thought Saw 4 still has something to offer. I thought the plot was better than 2 or 3, but certainly no where near as good as the first film. The movie picks up right where 3 leaves off. It starts off with a gruesome autopsy of Jigsaw, whose inners hold a tape. Two FBI agents join the investigation. Hoffman gets kidnapped and Rigg is the next player in Jigsaw's game. Rigg is given several tests of dealing with people in traps. Does he save them or let them die? Some gory scenes are a girl getting her hair twisted to the point her scalp starts to tear, a guy getting quartered, a guy getting his head smashed by two huge blocks of ice. You get the picture.The one part I didn't get was at the beginning, Jigsaw is being autopsied. So, how come in the end, when Detective Strahm enters the room where the woman had her head blown off from Saw 3, Jigsaw is still laying on the table. I didn't understand that timeline.FINAL VERDICT: If you are a fan of the series, then you will probably like this one too.
I actually liked this movie and didn't think it was stupid. The white chihuahua, Chloe, is so cute. Her rich owner goes on a business trip leaving her niece to watch Chloe. She goes to Mexico and Chloe gets out and picked up by dog fighters and taken to Mexico City. So, Chloe makes a friend there, Delgado, and they have an adventure while he tries to get her back to Beverly Hills. She gets tricked by a rat and iguana for her Harry Winston collar and is being tracked by Diablo, a dog sent by the dog fighters. They think Chloe will be worth some reward money. They are finally found up in northern Mexico by the niece. Chloe learns there is more to life than just being pampered. She gives Papi, the gardner's dog, a chance.FINAL VERDICT: If you love dogs, then I would think you will find this movie entertaining. It was cute and actually had a decent story that made sense and had adventure. It's a lot better than a lot of films that come out now days. So check it out.
sympathetic for this to be a really good movie. The main problem I had with this film is that the main character, Cal, played by Carell isn't likable enough. He does some hurtful things to his wife, Emily, even though he wants to get back with her. The movie begins with Emily asking for a divorce and revealing she had an affair. She kicks Cal out and he drowns his sorrows in a bar. At the bar, he meets ladies man, Jacob. Jacob wants to help Cal out and help him pick up woman, which he does.Then there are the side plots with Cal's son liking his baby sitter and the baby sitter liking Cal. Plus, Cal's daughter Nanna has a new guy and he's shocked when he finds out who it is.So, the whole movie is about relationships and crushes. It's not really funny, but is amusing at times. It's just that I didn't care who ended up with who.FINAL VERDICT: More of a chick flick, don't expect lots of laughs.
This movie was beyond awful. I figured it would be half descent since it has the funny Kal Penn; however, he can't save this dreadful script. At least with Scary Movie, it's spoofing horror/suspense films and Date Movie spoofs the teen films. But Epic Movie seems to pick movies and TV shows at random to spoof. You expect spoofs of films like LOTR and the Narnia films; those are epics. But this movie goes after the MTV shows Cribs and Punked and spoofs movies from Willy Wonka to Harry Potter. It's just all over the place, reminds me of ADD.FINAL VERDICT: One of the worst films to come out in the past 5 years. I don't recommend it. Not one laugh throughout the movie.
Anna Farris was good in this. The only other films I remember her having a large part in were the scary movie franchise. She's funny and likable on screen. Instead of giving good roles to people like Kate Hudson, Anna Farris should be getting her fair share.Shelly (Farris) is a playboy bunny whom is soon to realize her dream of being a November centerfold. Right after her 27th birthday party, she receives a letter from Hef asking her to leave. So, she takes up residence at the Zeta house and becomes their housemother. The Zetas are in danger of losing their house and must get 30 new pledges. The few members are weird and goofy looking. Shelly teaches them how to dress sexy and talk to boys and throw parties.As it turns out, Hef didn't really send the letter. Another bunny wanted Shelly's centerfold. So Shelly must choose to go back and live at the playboy mansion or stay at the Zeta house. As Shelly says it, she finally found her real family.FINAL VERDICT: Entertaining, pretty funny. Plus, Anna Farris has some real eye candy scenes with her outfits. Who knew she was in that good of shape.
This was a good animated film. I liked the songs and the characters. the movie is about two sisters, Elsa, whom has ice powers, and Anna. Elsa is set to take over the kingdom but accidentally uses her powers and scares everyone. So she runs away and Anna sets out to find her. She leaves her just met fiancé in charge and receives help with an ice seller, Kristoff, to track her sister down. The get help from a funny snowman.Of course you know someone has to be evil and it's easy to figure out who, and as with any Disney film,, an act of love must save the day.FINAL VERDICT: One of the better animated films I've seen. Worth checking out.
that Bruno is not as good as Borat. What made Borat so great is the sketches were real. Sasha Baren Cohen was playing his act on average unsuspecting people. Here in Bruno, a lot of it seemed written and it wasn't him playing pranks on real people. Like what about the scene with Ron Paul or Paula Abdul, surely they knew what was going on. And I can't believe the scenes were Bruno is interviewing the parents about their children are real. What mother would say her child who weighs 30 pounds can loose 10 pounds or would agree to put her child on a crucifix or dress them up like a nazi.FINAL VERDICT: Best part was the exclusive interview with Harrison Ford. Now that was funny. If you are looking for a comedy, this movie does have some laughs, but just know it's not as good as Borat.
If you are looking for an action comedy then this is for you. The film is filled with jokes. The funniest part is that it is set in middle age times, yet everyone has guns, shotguns, and they talk like current times instead of middle age times.In this story, Hansel and Gretel are left in the woods and come across a witch. In this movie, all the witches look like something out of Evil Dead rather than an old witch with a big nose and hat. They burn the witch and that starts their legend. Jump ahead and Hansel and Gretel have come back to their hometown to solve the disappearance of 12 children. They learn of a plot by the witches to perform a spell of the blood moon that would make them immune to fire. So the rest of the film is battles with witches, the evil sheriff whom doesn't want anyone else to be the hero, and finding out about white witches.FINAL VERDICT: Entertaining action film with good special effects. It is silly but is meant to be, worth checking out.
This movie wasn't very good. First, there is not one character you can route for. The lead character, played by Diaz, is a foul mouthed,rude, lazy, pot head teacher. A teacher like her would be fired after the first week, but since this is Hollywood, she gets to keep her job. Basically, the whole movie is her sleeping in class, drinking in class, while she schemes too get the rich substitute teacher to fall for her. She gets the idea to raise money to get a boob job to snag him. So she steals from the school car wash and cheats to get a bonus. Definitely a BAD teacher.FINAL VERDICT: a sad look at teachers, not really funny, don't watch it.
This movie wasn't that great because not much happens. There's no excitement or twist. It's about 2 people meeting in New York, Garrett and Erin. They start dating but Erin will have to move back west to go to Stanford in 6 weeks. So, when she moves, they decide to start a long distance relationship. So, they talk on the phone and text and complain to their friends. Now and then one will travel to visit the other.Exactly what is so great about this story to turn it into a movie. Nothing, that's why it doesn't work. It's just about ordinary people; it's not like one of them is a spy or celebrity. So, it doesn't take a lot of effort to guess how it all ends.FINAL VERDICT: skip it.
This movie is a family drama; the problem with it is that it needed something dramatic/thrilling to happen. Benjamin and his two kids buy a house that comes with a zoo. His son, Dylan, is going through growing pains since the mom died and he is just moody all the time. The daughter, Rosie, is cute and the best part of the film. The zoo also comes with some employees and they all work to get the zoo fixed and ready to open in July. I would have liked it with more animal interaction, but this film is about the people. Too bad it wasn't better written.FINAL VERDICT: A fair family film, but I wouldn't recommend it.
My main interest in viewing this movie was that it was filmed on location in Bora Bora. Having been to Bora Bora earlier this year, I just wanted to see that beautiful water again. There was one scene in which 2 of the couples are snorkeling and they use computer effects for the reef sharks. Having been there, I know the black tip reef sharks are harmless and easy to find, so I don't get why the director didn't use real sharks for that scene instead of really bad fake ones.Vince Vaughn plays the same character again, a sarcastic guy with a girl that's too hot for him. The movie is about 4 couples whom go to a resort named Eden for couples therapy. Only one couple wants the therapy, but it turns out they all have to complete the course or leave the resort. So of course, the therapy turns out good for all the couples. There is a yoga guy named Salvadore that does some very "interesting" yoga exercises with the wives. Somehow, I don't think any guy would be OK with what he does.FINAL VERDICT: Overall, it really isn't a very funny movie and it seems to drag along. The turquoise ocean is the best part, so it's safe to say I don't really think most people will care for this.
be so dumb. Well, they are in this movie, that was marketed as the prequel to Aliens, which is still one of my all time favorites. It seems some scientists see ancient drawings on cave walls and concluded the drawings were referring to the creators of humans. So with it being almost the year 3000, technology has advanced and a group is sent into deep space in search of the planet in the drawings. They reach the planet and go exploring. And this is when the scientists get dumb. First, they decide to take their space helmets off in a creepy cave. Mess with a dead alien body and steel the head and not pay attention to the moving black stuff. Plus 2 of the geniuses get lost and don't make it back. Instead one of them decides it would be a good idea to stick his hand in front of a snake like alien creature. Bad idea.So things keep getting weirder on the planet, but the lead female, Shaw, is still OK with going back out. They find an alien still living and is anyone surprised when he isn't too happy about it.And it's set up for the sequel and I did like the very last scene when it gives a clue to how Aliens began. What I didn't get was the very beginning when the albino guy falls down that waterfall, what was that about? FINAL VERDICT: A descent sci-fi film. It did make sense, and had its tense moments.
Very little happens in this movie. It's about Ryan, played by George Clooney, whose job is to fire people. He flies around the US firing people. He meets up with this pretty woman, Alex, whom also flies a lot for her job. So they start meeting up and texting and start a little romance. Meanwhile, Ryan's company hires a young gun, Natalie, whom suggests to save money by firing people over the computer. The boss tells her to go with Ryan to see what's it like to fire people. Along the way her relationship breaks up and she sees it is not as easy as she thought. Ryan invites Alex to a wedding, and comes to think he wants what Natalie's been talking about with marriage and someone to come home to. So he goes to see Alex in Chicago and sees what he should have suspected along. And the ending is just Ryan along and flying again because his company shelved the computer idea.And how they made a movie out of that I don't know because it's hardly a plot.FINAL VERDICT: Boring, avoid.
but I didn't think it was best picture material. A lot of movies have been made bout slavery and people acted like this was the first one. Of course, a movie about the subject is going to be good, but it's not an unique concept. And the girl that one the academy award wasn't on screen much and didn't do much. She had one big seen about her soap and that wins awards. I though the main guy, Solomon was really good and if any one should have won awards for acting it should have been him. And why did Brad Pitt have to cast himself as the one white guy against slavery, he just wanted to make himself look good.FINAL VERDICT: Not a must see, a good movie if you want to see something about a serious subject.
is that really funny? In this case, not really. This movie uses shock, gross out humor to try to be funny. Two scenes really fit this definition. First, Owen Wilson is saved from a hot tub after falling asleep by a black and a white guy, whom are naked. And the movie leaves little to the imagination and really plays are the stereotype. Second scene involves a woman Jason Sudeikis brings back to the hotel room. She's drunk and wants to vomit; however, something comes out of the wrong end.The whole premise of the movie is two guys, Rick and Fred, are given hall passes by their wives, mainly because the wives are tired of them oogling other woman. So, they tell them they can do what they want for a week, even if that includes cheating. What they didn't count on was whom would be doing the cheating. Because it doesn't take long to see that these 40 year old guys know nothing about how to pick up woman now days. And a lot of the jokes are them with their other guy friends saying they are going to do this and that but they never do it. And then unbelievably, Rick has the hot blonde coffee girl through herself at him, but he doesn't take her up on it. And Fred "fakes it" with a mom.FINAL VERDICT: Not too funny, but if you like gross humor, then you'll probably want to see this.
After reading some of these reviews, I was expecting this to be awful. However, I didn't think it was that bad; I certainly wouldn't call it one of the worst films of the year. I thought the story line did make sense. In this sequel, Johnny Blaze, goes to Europe in search of a boy, Danny, whom has the spirit of the devil in him. The devil wants Danny to complete a ceremony transforming his soul into Danny's. The Rider with help from Danny's mom and Moreau must stop it.I thought the special effects were OK, and I liked the flaming skull. I thought it looked cool.FINAL VERDICT: That it was OK, not to long and the special effects weren't bad.
After seeing this, Jeff Bridges definitely deserved the Oscar he won for this role. He was great and so was Maggie Gyllenhaal. I don't think this was the best movie because it moved slowly along and there wasn't a lot of action, but the songs and acting were great. I'm always a fan of movies that have several original songs that are good, and this movie has that. The country songs in this are quite catchy and are performed several times in the movie.Bridges plays a typical alcoholic aging country star, Bad Blake. Bad is reduced to playing small bars and bowling allies. He spends the days drinking and shows up just in time to sing his set. At one of his stops, he meets Jean, a small town reporter whom wants an interview. She interviews him twice and the second time starts an affair with him. This was my only problem with the film because Maggie G. is just too young for Jeff B. for it to be believable. She's not a groupie and I didn't buy someone with a young son like her would start an affair with a traveling singer. But, after getting past that, she invites Bad over to meet her boy. Bad continues his tour but is hurt in a car wreck so calls on Jean to help him out. He spends more time with Jean and her son and the relationship grows.He leaves again, but they keep in touch and she comes to visit. There is an incident involving Bad and her son that changes everything including making Bad realize he needs to clean up his act.FINAL VERDICT: Great, a must see.
because Ashton Kutcher is driving around Nice in a hot, red sports car that is super cool. And a few minutes later he's shirtless for a few seconds. Whom knew he'd turned from flab to fab, he's pretty hot, but too bad his acting is the pitts. I like Katherine Heigl even though she plays the same character all the time. She's OK in this; however, the main problem was the script. This type of movie has been made so many times already. It's basically one of those movies where the spouse finds out her or his partner is leading a double life, and now assassins want them dead. So, you get some unbelievable stunts and in this case, weak humor thrown in.FINAL VERDICT: Earlier movies do it better, stay away from this.
This movie fails in comparison to recent superhero movies like Spiderman or Superman or X-men. The special effects are not as good. They sort of looked cheesy, especially Mr. Fantastic's stretching arm. BTW, how does his clothes stretch with his arm. For instance, in one scene he's writing on a chalkboard wearing a white lab coat. The coat stretches with the arm. How is that possible? The plot wasn't that great. Simply not as interesting as the X-men movies. The film has there best actor, Michael Chiklis, on the back burner, and most of the time looking like a scary rock.The movie tries to have a few cute, funny scenes, but they fail. Like shaving cream on the Thing's hand while sleeping during the short musically skit. It was out of place and not funny.FINAL VERDICT: I don't know why they are making a sequel to this. It's a waste of money. 12 year old boys may like this but I think most people would rather skip it.
According to this movie, if you ever want to stop ghosts from coming into your room from electrical devices, cover all walls and windows with red tape. That makes a lot of of sense doesn't it? And that's the main problem with this film is that there are too many instances of the plot making little sense.There were some good scenes that will make you jump. But the whole idea of ghosts coming through the computer and phones and sucking the life out of someone was too silly. And to stop this the answer is to release a computer virus. The movie never explained how dead people were trapped in the computer and could watch the living and eventually come through the wires. Plus, the writers came up with red tape as the way to stop the ghosts. Just to far out there for my tastes.FINAL VERDICT: Not a very good horror film. No blood and the plot is too out there.
This movie was not really scary and it stole too much material from other horror films. Was I watching the Birds or the Grudge? The first few minutes in black and white were OK; it seemed promising. But after that it is so unoriginal and not scary. And naturally, the teenage daughter has had problems in the past and is not believed by the parents. She and her little brother are the only ones who see the "ghosts" in the beginning. And you know when the mysterious guy shows wanting to stay on the property something is up with him. I guessed who he was then and was right.Also the ghosts look exactly like the woman and boy from the Grudge. There is no uniqueness to this movie.FINAL VERDICT: Not very good. I don't recommend it.
This type of movie has just been done too many times and this time they make it gross as to how they switch bodies. It's by peeing in a public fountain.So you have the married father of 3 responsible guy, Dave, whom switches bodies with his carefree rude best friend, Mitch. So they throw in some bad language, some boobs, and gross situations and you have a laughing riot of a time, right? Wrong, this was gross and the plot is just old to be funny to me. I mean, they have a baby squirting something into his dad's mouth. Plus babies playing with knives and electrical outlets.FINAL VERDICT: This idea has been done too many times to bother watching again. Skip it.
could something like this be possible. The whole story just didn't sound very plausible to me. It was too sappy, too dramatic. In the movie Holly's husband Gerry, dies from a brain tumor. They had been married ten years, and were still in love. She doesn't know how she will get through this. Then after several weeks, a birthday cake and letter arrive from her deceased husband. He said he planned all of this out and will send her letters throughout the months to help her get over his death. Such as want her to go sing karaoke, take a trip to Ireland and visits his parents, and fall in love again. Holly finds out in the end it was her mother whom was helping Gerry do all this.One thing I didn't like is Gerry would just show up and it wasn't flashbacks. Also, that was just creepy having Holly sleep with Gerry's best bud in Ireland.FINAL VERDICT: Those that love the date/romance movies will probably like this more. I thought it was decent, but not great and I just didn't buy this as something that could really happen.
This movie didn't make a whole lot of sense. I still don't get was there really a nightclub at the insane asylum or was that part of her imagination too. Was Blue a hospital worker or really the boss running the nightclub? The story is about a young girl, Babydoll, whom accidentally kills her sister, and is sent to a psych ward by her mean stepdad. There she teams up with a few other girls to escape. Then there is the nightclub where the girls are forced to dance, which I don't know if that was real. And Babydoll dances, which we never see, leads to an imaginary world where the girls are jumping out of helicopters and fighting zombie soldiers while obtaining objects they need for their escape. All the special effects were over the top and made the whole movie seem more for a 13 year old.FINAL VERDICT: Too many plot holes, skip it.
This movie aims for one audience, the single female. The two women in this have these two nearly perfect romances while on vacation. What every single 30 year old woman wishes.In this movie, Amanda travels to England for Christmas while Iris goes to LA to stay in her home. Iris likes one of Amanda's friends, whom breaks up with his girlfriend. That leaves room for Iris to move in.Amanda falls for Iris's brother, played by Jude Law. In the movie he is a widower with two kids and is supposed to be all sweet and perfect. I think he is miscast, just not believable because everyone knows that Law has not been Mr. Perfect in real life. He's cheated on his wife and later another girlfriend. I just can't take him seriously as someone who deserves pity or good things.The movie is cute in places, a few laughs. But it is just too idealic for two losers in love to find the perfect guy in 2 weeks.FINAL VERDICT: I guess if you are 30 year old woman, then you may want to check it out, but this is not for everyone.
I have never read the books, so I can't compare the movie to them, but I'm sure the books are better for them to be so popular. The movie just wasn't worth the hype. It was OK, and it had a plot a lot better than most new films, but it just lacked that oomph.First, it's hard to buy the love story between Edward and Bella when all they do is stare at each other a few times at school and suddenly they are madly in love. Surely more happened in the book. And I thought there was going to be some sort of mystery with the deaths of a couple of people: like whether it was werewolves or rogue vampires. But that was hardly a side plot in the film. And I thought the whole vampire baseball game was a hokey thing for them to do . So much more should have been done with the vamps special abilities, then hitting balls a long ways and climbing trees really fast.Then the climax was Bella on the run from James. She goes back to Phoenix with the other 2 vamps, now how did they get out in the sun? Then she gets tricked by James, and James and Edward have a short fight. I did like the scene in which Edward has to save Bella by sucking out the venom.FINAL VERDICT: If you are not a fan of the books, then this movie probably won't be too appealing.
The main problem with the movie is that it was too long. The ending is dragged out after we learn whom the killer is. It just kept going and going. There was no need to go back to the guy that had sued Mikael and see how Mikael and Lisbeth got revenge on him.A rich old man, Henrik, hires disgraced journalist, Mikael, to do research on the disappearance of his niece some 40 years ago. A very weird girl, Lizbeth, helps him discover the truth. What I didn't get is why did they have Lizbeth be tortured by that trust fund guy like that. Other than to show that she hated guys that abused women, why have something that disturbing put in there. And it was interesting how she handled the guy, but it had nothing to do with the murder mystery. Also, I didn't like the affair they started. I think Mikael was a sicko for doing it.Also, the revealing of the killer wasn't that shocking. It looks like that family would have known something of the sick perversions going on. Also, even I guessed whom Harriett was.FINAL VERDICT: It was OK, but slow moving at times. Only for adults.
This ghost story was pretty good. Lawyer, Arthur Kipps is sent to an English village to dig up dirt on a house that is up for sale. It is apparent that the locals don't want him there and don't want him going to the Eel Marsh house. He goes to the house anyways and spots a woman in black plus hears odd noises. He goes back to the village and witnesses a child die by drinking some lye. He's given a place to stay by Daily, the rich man in town, whom has also lost a child. He tells Arthur about the legend of the woman and that a child dies soon after she is seen, but Daily is not a believer. So the last part is about Arthur trying to solve the mystery. He finds out why the ghost has come back for revenge and tries to appease her. Frankly, I didn't see how he could stay in that house with all the noises and visions going on. That would be too creepy. And why don't the villagers with kids just move.Any ways, we get a surprise, satisfying ending.FINAL VERDICT: Pretty good, worth a viewing.
I really liked this movie because it was so inspiring. It's powerful because it's based on a true story. Bethany Hamilton is one of the top surfers in her age group and is on her way to becoming a pro surfer. Then one day out with friends, a shark takes her arm. From there, we see a true inspiration as she decides to surf again and to just live life. She goes to Thailand to help after the tsunami there, and sees how bad others have it and that she should not feel so sorry for herself. She comes back and is determined to compete again. The surf competition at the end was exciting. I wonder if that is what really happened since it was so dramatic. Bethany misses the last wave counting by 2 seconds. That part seemed more Hollywood. In the closing credits, it says Bethany did make it as a pro surfer. Truly remarkable.FINAL VERDICT: It's a great story plus you have the beautiful scenery of Kauai. Check it out.
This movie paled in comparison to some of the shows vh1 has done about bands. There's usually just a lot more craziness going on that what this movie showed. Sure there's drug use, but it's tame for some rockers.The movie starts in LA where Joan Jett and Cherie Currie are still teens in the club scene. Joan teams up with a music producer and they find other players for the band and eventually hire Cherie to be lead singer. The band's big gimmick is they are still teens. Next thing you know, they are touring overseas, which I don't see how since they didn't have parents with them. They start the drug use, but nothing to wild. Cherie gets a big ego and gets more attention, leading to tension in the band. And I guess they just broke up, the movie does not give enough details here.FINAL VERDICT: vh1 does it better
This was definitely one of Adam Sadler's better movies. Something like this is so much better than Grown ups. This movie isn't an all out comedy, it's more of a date movie and the best part was it wasn't filled with gross and stupid jokes. Sandler and Drew Barrymore reunite and it works yet again. They play Jim and Lauren, a couple that go on a disastrous first date. It turns out that Lauren's friend is dating Jim's boss and they cancel a vacation last minute. So, Jim and Lauren take their place with his 3 girls and her 2 boys.At the resort in Africa, they treat them like a couple, so they have to spend time together. The resort has a funny singer that shows up in the oddest of places. So both families do fun things together and start to get along and Jim does things with Lauren's boys and Lauren helps out his girls. But Jim lets things slip away until they are back home and he comes to his senses and they get a happy ending.FINAL VERDICT: Cute fun movie. It's worth watching.
two comedians? First Kevin James is miscast. He's know for Adam Sandler type of comedies, not for movies in which he's trying to be serious. And Vince Vaughn is in more comedies than not. I think he's trying to by funny in his role, but it doesn't work. This movie is about a serious topic: cheating.The gist is Vaughn accidentally sees James' wife cheating and now his dilemma is should he tell him or not? The conflict is the 2 are business partners and they have an important meeting with a car manufacturer as they try to sell their engine. Vaughn doesn't want James' mind to be messed up before the big meeting.So Vaughn starts telling lies and following James' wife around and gets in a bar room type brawl with her lover. Then gives a very uncomfortable speech about honesty at his girlfriend's parents' party. Finally he decides to be honest and his life isn't such a mess any more.FINAL VERDICT: Slow, kind of boring, needed more dramatic actors. Skip it.
This movie is above average, but there are some things that hold it back. Namely, the story takes place during World War I and it is shot almost Disney like. It was a lot more brutal than shown. The other part I didn't like was having the German soldiers speak English. There should have been subtitles. The commander would yell in German, then everyone would speak English.But after overlooking all that, the movie is a touching story about a horse, Joey, surviving against all odds to be reunited with his master. The horse is captured several times, at times driven to the brink of death, and even finds a home with a young girl. And then he gets tangled in barb wire, which was awful to watch. But, like I said in the beginning, it's given a Disney ending.FINAL VERDICT: Good story, very scenic, and the horse comes out on top.
This movie was better than I expected it to be. While not great or exciting, it does tell a decent story that makes sense. The movie shows how Amelia became a nation wide celebrity by flying across the Atlantic and of her romance with her husband, George. It also shows she had an affair but never left George. She was paid to be a spokes person for things like luggage and gave many speeches to finance her flying. Of course, the film ends with her attempt at flying around the world with her navigator. It shows them landing in Africa and the south pacific but could never find the tiny island she needed to gas up at and was lost at sea.I'd say the main reason this movie is better than expected was Hillary Swank. She was believable and looked the part.FINAL VERDICT: If you catch it on cable, it's worth viewing.
This movie was almost like sitting through a business class. It was boring and a lot of it was just talking about finance and the stock market with revenge thrown in. Gordon Gekko, a finance genius, is released after a number of years in prison. He comes up with a scheme to use his estranged daughter, Winnie, to get rich and to put the guy that helped lock him up behind bars. Winnie's boyfriend, Jake, makes contact with Gekko. He wants to bring Winnie closer to her dad and wants advice since he works at a bank that is fixing to go under. His company is going down because of rumors that are being spread by the same guy that helped lock Gekko up. Gekko sees this as a chance for revenge plus he uses it to "steal" back the 100 million he gave his daughter. But I guess he had a little change of heart at the end.The main problem with this movie is to much business talk and to much just talk in general. Like we have to sit through Gekko's lecture about money. That scene was too long. The whole movie was just boring.FINAL VERDICT: Avoid this.
I liked this movie because I love animals. And if you love animals, then whales are probably high up on your list since they are intelligent and thought of as some of the best animals in the sea. There are theme parks centered around them; people love whales.The story takes place in Barrow, Alaska, where a family of 3 gray whales are trapped in ice. Their head are too soft to break the ice, and it's too far for them to swim without breathing. A reporter decides they would make a great story, and it turns into national news. Reporters flock there to make a name, and the country is engrossed as to what will happen to the whales.The story also centers around, Greenpeace lady, Rachel, whom wants to save the whales and her ex, Adam, the reporter who started the story. Of course, you know this movie will help them get back together.The people of Barrow come together and make ice holes to allow the whales to get close to open water and it is up to an ice breaker boat to do the rest.FINAL VERDICT: Nice heart warming story about different people coming together for a wonderful cause, saving whales.
This movie was OK, but the main fault with it was predictability. You knew from the start, the young boy, was going to turn selfish, that Maleficent would want revenge, and that whom would be required to give true love's kiss. Bringing the Prince into the picture did not add any suspense because you knew that he wasn't true love's kiss.But the special effects were very good, from the flying of Maleficent into the clouds, to the living trees, the growing black trees. Truly amazing. Also, I loved Angelina Jolie's makeup. The pale face and contour with the red lip looked so good and just make her look like a villain.FINAL VERDICT: A little dark for really young kids, but I think 10 year olds would enjoy it. I liked the visuals, but I just wished the story could have had more suspense. A lot of adults probably should just skip it.
then you will like this. This sequel goes back to the formula that made Riddick popular in the first film. The first sequel for Riddick had a terrible script but this movie gets back to the monsters in the dark.Riddick is on a planet where monsters that look like rip offs from the alien franchise, come out and about when it rains. He's been living alone but finally tracked down by bounty hunters. Of course they claim to take his head back in a box, but we know that isn't going to happen. And at the end, just like in Pitch Black, we get an adrenaline rush dodging the monsters to get back to the ship.FINAL VERDICT: It's OK for what it is, a mindless sequel and has a few bloody scenes, but not that much. I think it could have used a few more crazy deaths besides the ole kick a hatchet through the neck trick.
This movie was pretty bland. Nothing real exciting but it was not completely boring either. It's about James, a recent college graduate, whom had planned to go to Europe in the summer before starting grad school at Columbia. His parents can't pony up the money for the trip, so he is forced to get a summer job to help pay for school. He gets a job at Adventureland. There he meets a couple of geeky guy friends, a hot girl(Lisa P) and a sort of awkward girl, Em. He starts talking to Em and likes her. What he doesn't know she is having an affair with a married co-worker.So most of the movie is about James and Em's friendship that eventually leads to more. I thought it was more of a drama, not really a comedy.FINAL VERDICT: If you can catch it on cable, it's worth a viewing.
I thought this was a good action film. I'm not expecting some well thought out plot or plausible events; this is your basic popcorn flick. The only weird thing was all the flashbacks; you normally don't see that in popcorn films. But the special effects were good and it had a lot of action. I found it entertaining and not silly stunts.The main plot is this guy, Destro, wants to rule the world with his new invention, which are tiny nano bugs that can eat metal. You put them in a war head and they destroy what it hits, then there is a kill switch to kill the bugs. He's working with the Doctor, an evil scientist that has his own agenda and just happens to be the long lost brother of a major character and a friend that Duke thought he had lost. There are 2 female kick #ss characters that can hold their own. Then there is a love story thrown in between one of them and Duke. And the gist of the film is the Joes trying to get the war heads back from the bad guys and they go from the desert to Paris to the North Pole tracking the war heads down.FINAL VERDICT: I found it entertaining and recommend it for action fans.
NFL GMs aren't as dumb as depicted in this movie. Kevin Costner plays, Sonny, the new GM of the Browns, taking over for his deceased father. They have the 7th pick but are interested in a hot shot QB that is expected to go No 1. Now Sonny waits till draft day to do a little digging on the QB. As if a GM would wait till the last minute. Anyways he trades 3 NO 1's to Seattle for the NO 1 pick. There's a running back the coach wants and a linebacker with a heart of gold on Sonny's radar.The draft starts and Sonny selects the linebacker. Other GMs contact him and want to know what is wrong with the QB. They show the new GM of the Jaguars to be a complete idiot. Sonny trades for their NO 1 pick at 6. He then contacts Seattle and says he'll trade 6 for the rest of their NO 1's back and a punt returner. So Seattle excepts and gets the QB for a cheaper price that Sonny never wanted. Sonny gets the running back at 7 plus the punt returner and all the Brown's picks back. So as you can see no GM is that dumb to get played like that.FINAL VERDICT: I'd say this is for football fans only. It is rather dull and why did Sonny have to have a pregnant co-worker 30 years his junior as a side plot.
This movie was a hair below Gipson's Braveheart, so I give it a 9 instead of a 10. Definitely one of the best films of the year. And to my surprise it was no where near as gory as Braveheart or Passion of the Christ. I was expecting a lot more graphic violence with lots of blood but it really isn't there. That doesn't mean it's for kids, but don't let the violence prevent you from seeing this.The story is simply. A young husband and farther, Jaguar Paw, is captured by the Mayans along with the rest of his tribe. He is able to hide his family in a well and they are trapped there. They are taken to the Mayan city where there is drought and disease. They are there to be human sacrifices to appease their gods. Here is where the worst of the violence takes place with hearts ripped out and bodies thrown down stairs. Jaguar Paw is saved by chance and then manages to escape while his captures have fun trying to kill him.The rest of the movie is him outwitting his pursuers as he makes his way back to his wife. One moment of unbelievability is him out running a jaguar for some distance. That just isn't possible.But the story is great and the subtitles are not annoying. It is a well made movie, great visuals and special effects.FINAL VERDICT: A must see.
I finally got to see the last installment of this franchise and watched them all on cable; I certainly wouldn't spend money to see these films. The movie begins after the birth of Renesmee; Belle and Edward are hot for each other and Jacob creepily has the hots for the baby since he imprinted on her. The Volturi are coming after them because they fear the child is a danger to the life of vampires and can't be controlled, plus it's bad in the vampire world to turn a child. Now does that sound real exciting? So Bella, Edward and the family are going to disappear, then perhaps what is the most perverted scene in a pg13 film, when Jacob strips to turn into a wolf in front of Bella's dad. Jacob does this to keep the family from running away, real sensible, right? So, some vamp tattles on the Cullen family to the Volturi; meanwhile the Cullens gather vampire friends from around the worth to vouch on their behalf that the child isn't a threat. They are afraid the Volturi won't believe that the child is half human and half vamp, which would mean she wasn't a threat, makes perfect sense? Anyways there is a so called "confortation" which may or may not happen, the end.FINAL VERDICT: Simply awful. The plots to these film are just not good.
Johnny Depp is great in this as usual. He plays 1920s bank robber Johnny Dillinger. Most of the story is about Johnny and his gang robbing some banks and they get caught. He escapes and is still tracked by FBI agent, Melvin Purvis. There is also his in this, Billie. He basically gets followed again because he can't leave her only. The FBI eventually gets her for aiding and abetting, but Johnny gets away. He can't stay away and makes contact with an old female friend that is giving info to the FBI. So, he does get what's coming to him.My main problem was most of the action was bank robbing or car chases. It wasn't very exciting and it needed something more considering it was well over 2 hours.FINAL VERDICT: Definitely for all Depp fans; it was OK but I wouldn't go out of my way to see it.
At the beginning, I thought this was one of those movies that just makes you think you're dealing with the supernatural. But in this case the supernatural and voodoo is real. Caroline goes to take care of a man who is dying after a stroke in an old spooky house. His wife is mysterious and not to friendly. Soon Carline begins to realize the husband is asking for help and is being drugged. She also finds a hidden room in the attic that is filled with voodoo items. Of course, she doesn't believe. But she gets more involved with the secret room and aspects of voodoo. And just when the wife thinks Caroline's a believer, that's when the trap is sprung. I won't give away the ending. I liked it and it didn't happen as I thought it would. It was a nice surprise.FINAL VERDICT: Creepy enough, entertaining. Kate Hudson is fun to watch. I say check it out.
and great as ever. Billy Bob plays Dr. P, a teacher for losers with low self esteem. Roger is a new student, played by the funny Jon Herder. He wants to stop being pushed around and to get a girl, Amanda. We get several funny scenes of Dr. P asking his students to be more confrontational. At the paint ball game, Roger proves to be learning quickly, which causes Dr. P to want to one up him. So, Dr. P makes a play for Amanda. He says he is a doctor and sweet talks her all the while infuriating Roger. He even convinces Amanda that Roger needs mental help. But in the end Roger uses the help of friends to get back at Dr. P. He almost gets tricked again but remembers one of Dr. P's number one rules. Lie, Lie, Lie. Ben Stiller makes a cameo as one of Dr. P's former students who was traumatized by him. He wants revenge.FINAL VERDICT: Quite a few funny scenes. Worth watching.
The main problem with this movie was Steve Carell and Kiera Knightly don't mesh as an on screen couple. It just wasn't believable that they would go on a 2 day road trip and be go ga over each other. First there's the age difference, then their characters didn't have anything in common.The plot is an asteroid is going to destroy Earth in a few weeks, so what does one do. If you are Dodge, you still go to work, exercise, etc... Well, he comes home to find that his wife has left him and all he has to do is go to house parties. He sees Penny crying outside and she says she wants to see her family before the end. Dodge says he knows a guy with a plane, so they head out on a road trip after ditching Penny's ex. They meet a guy that has devised his own end, eat at a "very happy" place and go to Dodge's sweet heart's house. And by doing all this in about a day and a half, fall for each other, So lame.The rest of the film is just not good because I didn't buy Dodge and Penny as a couple, and what Penny does with the plane. It wouldn't have happened.FINAL VERDICT: Just not written well and bad casting. Avoid this.
This film was bad. I even thought the special effects were pretty lousy. First there is some kind of giant robot that shoots a red laser out of a slit in its helmet. It kills all power and the noise causes people to fall over. And this robot just stays in one spot and finally the army some how designs a box to capture it in and study it. Just silly.The spheres were bad special effects too. And what do you say about Keanu Reeves acting. If his monotone voice it supposed to be alien like, well, I guess you could say he did OK. Otherwise, he really needs to stick to surfer/cop movies.And the finally resolution of Jennifer Conley trying to convince the alien that humans can change was really bad. The alien finally says OK because she gives her stepson a hug in the graveyard.FINAL VERDICT: One of the worst sci-fi films to come out in a while. Even the special effects were poor.
There wasn't anything new in this movie. It is basically like the film Big. Grown adult male all of a sudden finds himself years younger. In this case, Mike O'Donnell, falls into a water vortex and wakes up 17 again. Back when he was really 17, he gave up his basketball career and college scholarship because his girlfriend got pregnant. He married her had 2 kids and now they are divorcing. At 17 again, he goes back to high school and helps his own kids out while hanging out with his wife. Of course, the predictable happens in which he realizes he shouldn't let his soon to be ex get away and his kids are better than he thought. And he turns back into an adult and everything is a OK.The best part in this is Mike's best friend, Ned. Ned's rich and has all this cool Star Wars props and other things. He tries to make a play for the school principle. That part was funny.As for Zac Efron, who cares. He does nothing memorable in this. He has yet to be in a good movie.FINAL VERDICT: Only for 14 year old girls.
This was a pretty good animated movie. I really liked the dragons as there are several different kinds that are designed uniquely and are colorful. It's about a Viking boy, Hiccup, that befriends a dragon. The dragon has injured its tail and can't fly out of this valley. Hiccup makes a device to go on the tail that aids the dragon in flying and he also makes himself a saddle. Now he's flying on the dragon and learning that the beliefs about dragons being evil are not true. He's also in dragon killing training school with some other kids. He starts to dominate because he knows what they like and can make them act like pets. Of course hid dad finds out and wants to slay more dragons. Can Hiccup and his friends stop them and save the day? It's a kids film, what do you think.FINAL VERDICT: Cute movie with cool animated dragons, worth a viewing
kids would probably like it. First I have to comment how the FBI tracked down the 2 alien kids and the taxi driver, Jack. It was just plain silly. Using all these video feeds all over Vegas, just not possible. And if these alien kids had all these powers, there is no way they would get caught. And if Seth was indestructible, like when he let the SUV hit him and it smashed up the SUV, why didn't he just take care of all the FBI agents tracking them to begin with.The Rock was OK in this, but he really needs to pick better movie scripts. And why does he keep doing kids' films? FINAL VERDICT: I only recommend it for kids around 12. Otherwise, if you don't fall into its target audience, I'd skip it.
Kevin Costner was actually in another decent movie. His last movie I saw, Mr. Brooks, was pretty good also. I would call this movie a political satire, that tries to be a little funny at times. However, the idea that one guy determines the presidential election is absurd, but if you can get past that, then the plot is OK. It was funny how the movie had the political parties doing adds for things they oppose. Example, the democrats supporting pro life because Bud says he's pro life.The plot is struggling, every day man, Bud Johnson, just got laid off. He has a very smart daughter and she cares about the presidential election. Bud promises to vote since Molly thinks it's important. But, when he doesn't show, Molly votes in his place but the power goes out and the vote didn't count. The election comes down to New Mexico and for some reason, not told in the movie, Bud's vote will decide the electoral votes. I mean, how could the votes be even for each side and even if they were very close, how many months would it take for all the recounts that would take place. But any way, it's up to Bud, whom doesn't care about politics. He becomes an instant celebrity and is courted by both candidates. By the end of the film, Bud grows an appreciation for the political scene and realizes that it is important to care about social issues.FINAL VERDICT: Funnier than I thought and provides a message. Plus, the movie doesn't try to say that one party is better than the other.
I actually liked this movie, which was surprising because I thought the first Captain America film was boring and not entertaining. But this was the exact opposite. It had an entertaining plot and you could follow it. The winter soldier was good too with his metal arm. Even the guy flying(Falcon) had good special effects. And I liked how the plot basically let you know from the start that Robert Redford's character was not all he seemed to be.BTW: Did anyone really believe Fury kicked the bucket? I mean what about the other avenger movies.FINAL VERDICT: An action movie worth checking out.
This movie is like many other romance films out there; only difference is it's set in England in the olden days. I'm not sure why Knightly got acting nominations. I didn't think it was anything special. She didn't even have to fake an English accent. The main story is girl likes boy, boy likes girl, girl gets mad at boy, then finds out he isn't so bad after all, and takes him back.On a side note, I thought it was really annoying for almost everyone to refer to someone else as Mr. or Mrs. instead of first names. The wife calls her husband Mr. Bennett and the kids even call their parents Mrs. or Mr.FINAL VERDICT: OK; just nothing original. If you like date movies, you may like this.
but it was still to long. About an hour in, I was thinking this movie is not very good. I didn't think the characters were introduced well and was wondering who was on screen. But, then it got better and the story made more sense, but at almost 3 hours, it was still too long. Edited to about 2 hours and 15 minutes would have been better.Eric Bana looked great in this. He was good as well as the other actors. It was just the story set-up needed to be better explained. A story like this had too much info to fit into a big screen film. It would have been better if this was a made for TV 5 part movie. Characters like Louis and his dad and the other killers besides Avner did not get enough development. I would have liked to know more about there back ground.FINAL VERDICT: A good film on an important subject matter, but was too long. If you aren't familiar with the story, it is hard to understand some of the characters. Overall, worth watching.
This is one of those movies critics like but the general public will find boring. I didn't like this at all. Films like this getting nominated for awards is what makes me care less about seeing nominated pictures. I have no idea how Tilda Swinton won best supporting actress. She was hardly in it and didn't do much.The movie is about a lawyer, Michal Clayton, whom is sent by his firm to fix a case messed up by one of their bipolar lawyers. That lawyer stopped his meds and created an embarrassing scene. When that lawyer shows up dead, Clayton realizes maybe there was more to his ramblings and maybe covered up secrets.FINAL VERDICT: It's the big bad corporation against the public type of picture. Think the Insider or Erin Brockovich except this movie is no where near as good as those two. This movie is just boring.
I didn't think this movie was that good. The silliest of the stories was the regular guy, Leopoldo, all of a sudden becomes a celebrity. And no reason is given as to why! News reporters and camera men just start following him around and report what he eats and such, and he starts having affairs with beautiful models, even though he's married. It made no sense. The the story with Woody Allen was OK, he plays the dad who's come to Rome to meet his daughter's boyfriend. He hears her dad sing in the shower and thinks he's great. Only problem is the dad only sounds good in the shower, so some how we see him on stage in operas, singing while in a a make-shift shower. So silly. The only good story was the guy whom has a prostitute show up and she's seen by his family, so he pretends she is the girlfriend. They go to this high society party, and a lot of her clients are there. Then the last one involves college students. The girl has her actress friend coming to stay awhile and the boyfriend falls for her. All the while Alec Baldwin keeps showing up and talking to them, but it's not like he's really there. Just weird.FINAL VERDICT: Skip it.
The best part about Tarantino movies' is the story is so unique and often comedic. This time he goes after slavery to tell his tale.Django is saved from slavery by Dr. Schultz, whom gets rid of the slavers in his own way. Then the two team up to hunt Schultz's bounty since Django knows them. In agreement they will look for Django's wife. They go to a plantation where the owner has slaves fight to death in his parlor and lets dogs take um down. They find the wife but Samuel L Jackson plays the biggest @ss kisser and tells Candy his suspicions, that Schultz isn't really interested in buying strong slaves, he just wants the girl.Then all hell breaks out as the plan is exposed. Django ends up in a pickle but uses greed in order to escape and get his revenge.FINAL VERDICT: A must see if this sort of humor doesn't offend you.
I thought of this film being in 2 parts. The first part was the plane crash. I thought it was well done. It was scary and keeps you guessing. First there is a shaky take off, then the plane clears it and it's clear skies, then it goes out of control. Exciting.Afterwards is the second part of the film, the more serious part, which is following an alcoholic. It turns out the pilot, Whip, is an alcoholic and was drunk on the plane but mechanical failure is what caused the crash. But that don't mean he can't get in trouble too. The ending was unbelievable because I don't think a life time liar would just tell the truth like that.Also, John Goodman has a cameo as Whip's supplier of anything. He was something else.FINAL VERDICT: I liked it and Denzel Washington was good and deserved the acting nominations. Check it out.
Will Ferrell film. I like the characters in the movie and you'd think it would be laugh out loud funny, but it wasn't. The movie uses the kind of jokes that are amusing and silly but it didn't make me laugh. And throwing in cameo after cameo, ie... the newsman fight, just doesn't make a joke funny. And how dumb are people supposed to be, sitting in an rv in the back with cruise control on. What about the pet shark and its appearance a the end. I mean silly as silly gets. But can it get any worse than a guy making an appearance at his own funeral acting like he's dead.FINAL VERDICT: too much hype, not really that good.
No wonder I never heard of this movie before I saw it on cable. It's modeled after movies from the 40s, which is good if you like older movies. However, I don't care for them, so I didn't really find this film very appealing. It was hard to pay attention because it moves slowly and there is little action and no stunts. I agree that Cate Blanchett played her role well and her accent sounded genuine. What I could understand from the film was that her husband, whom was on the lamb, was wanted by the Russians and Americans to help find someone. She lied and said he was dead. The Americans bring in Jake, a detective, who knows Lena to try to find her husband. Jake is also trying to solve the murder of Tully, I'm still not sure why he was killed.FINAL VERDICT: I didn't like it and anyone with a short attention span will hate this movie.
If there ever was a film you could say was made for guys, this one is it. One could say it's every guy's dream. Dane Cook plays, Charlie, a respectable dentist that was cursed as a child. Any woman he dates finds true love and marriage with the next guy after him. Soon, it seems the entire female population of where he lives, finds out about this and he is pursued by all these very hot women. At first, he doesn't want to take advantage of them, but at the urging of his friend, Stu, Charlie decides to let the women have what they want. So, he has all these one night stands, which soon become unfulfilling for him. He decides to ask out again a girl he really likes, Cam, played by Jessica Alba. They get along great but when it comes time to go further, he doesn't really want to because of the curse. Will Charlie break the curse and get the girl of his dreams? What do you think? Some scenes I would like to mention for their shock/gross/comical value are: Charlie goes out with this obese, acne faced woman in order to disprove the curse. Did we really need to see that? Or how about when he's basically raped by his huge secretary. Perhaps the most shocking scene is when Charlie walks in on Stu in a compromising position with a grapefruit. There's the 3 boob woman. Plus this movie has a lot of gratuitous nudity and sex for a film starring some famous names.FINAL VERDICT: All of the things I've mentioned lead this movie to be geared toward guys. I found it funny at times. This movie is sort of like a raunchier version of the American Pie genre.
This movie was above average. I liked it and didn't guess the twist at the end. My only complaint is some of the bad language could have been left out. I don't think is was necessary. A woman hires two investigators to help the police with the disappearance of her niece. The child's mother is a drug addict and liar. The PI put together clues and figure out what happened to the child. It's over drugs and money and work out a plan to get the kid back. But things go wrong. It's several months later and one of the PI, Patrick, gets a lead on another case about a molester. He does something shocking and figures out the case with the little girl may not be completely over based on a conversation with one of the cops. It has a nice twist ending at the end as to what really happened.I thought the story had some unique qualities and the acting was good.FINAL VERDICT: Worth watching, just not for kids.
seemingly have nothing in common. The basic story is the Cox's are getting a divorce. Osbourne Cox just got fired from the CIA and is writing a book. He loses his CD that contains his rough draft at the gym. Two gym employees think it is a CD filled with top secrets. First they blackmail Osbourne for cash unsuccessfully; Then they try to sell the info to the Russians.All of these circumstances lead to some very unfortunate events in everyone's lives.Some of the funny points are Linda just wants the cash for multiple plastic surgeries to help her image at the gym. She uses online dating and that's how she meets Harry. It just happens that Harry is also having an affair with Osbourne's wife and is being followed by the CIA. The CIA has no problem with disposing of bodies. It's too bad about the hatchet and the gym manager. I could go on and on because there were so many amusing events.FINAL VERDICT: Very entertaining film. I recommend it.
The second X-Files movie fit right in with the TV series, but I thought it moved to slow to make a real good movie. It should have been shorter and a little more action. The only supernatural elements were the psychic priest. They should have made the movie about some weird creature or ghost. Those were always the best TV episodes to me.The plot revolves around a missing FBI agent and a served arm found near the crime scene. The FBI bring in a psychic, who also happens to be an ex-priest child molester, to help in the hunt. They are very skeptical of the psychic abilities and bring in Mulder and Skully to help out. Mulder wants to believe and thinks they should listen to the psychic. Mean while, another girl is abducted and held in a box. Can the agents save her in time and figure out who and why is doing the kidnapping? Hint: it doesn't have anything to do with the supernatural but rather organ transplant.Also in the movie, Mulder and Skully are finally living together; it's about time.FINAL VERDICT: Not that good. I think most fans of the TV show will think this is a let down.
I'm still not sure. It's billed as a movie but looked like a cartoon. And this cartoon lacked a story and did not make sense. Violet is a vampire with super human strength and for some reason changes hair color and outfit colors all the time. Never explained. Nor is how she produces weapons out of thin air. How does a vampire do that? Plus, the only way I even figured out she was a vampire was some of the others had fangs. It's only mentioned a couple of times and they don't drink blood and have no problem going out during the day. What was the point of making them vampires? The whole disease made no sense. How come not everyone was wearing a mask. And why didn't violet wear a mask in order to blend in when she was being chased. Wouldn't that stand out saying, I already have the disease.And I didn't get how she got past security in the beginning and tricked them into thinking she was a human. Made no sense.Last, I'll comment on the action stunts. So over the top and cartoonish. It looked like a video game. Was terrible. Some how violet makes her bike fly and land in a helicopter while never being shot, yet she can blow up the copter. And why can none of the other vampires last more than 20 seconds against her in a fight. Don't they have special powers.FINAL VERDICT: If you like bad movies with special effects that look like video games, then you may want to see this; otherwise, avoid at all cost.
Obviously, the best part about this movie was the two leads were both hot guys in Hollywood. Jake G. is really turning into a hot comedy and Heath L. isn't bad himself. The story was interesting, but not that well written. The love story wasn't that moving. I've seen a lot better. The film used the controversy of 2 gay cowboys to get all the media attention it didn't really deserve.It would have been better if it had been under 2 hours. There wasn't enough material to fill almost 2 and a half hours.FINAL VERDICT: It's worth watching just because it's different than most films. Plus, the scenery of nature was beautiful. And the music was graceful as well.
I'm only giving this movie a 4 because it takes place in Hawaii, and there is some pretty scenery to view. But that is all this movie has going for it. I don't get why Clooney was nominated for acting awards for this, it's not a great role. He plays Matt King, a native Hawaiian whose family owned lots of land and he and the relatives have sold it over the years to make millions. Matt saved a lot of his money and gets by on what he makes as a lawyer while other family members have wasted it. The family is about to sell their last parcel of land, but Matt has other worries, like the fact his wife was in a boating accident and is brain dead. He finds out she was having an affair from his daughter, Alex. His two kids, Alex and Scottie, are disrespectful and act like it's no big deal their mom is going to die. They think nothing of cursing out their dad and he doesn't know how to discipline them.Matt decides to track down, Brian, the man having the affair to tell him he should say his good-byes to his wife. So Matt and his daughters plus Alex's weird friend, Sid, go to Kuaii and find Brian and his family.The movie is basically one long pity party set around a death bed.FINAL VERDICT: I don't get why it got good critical reviews. I think most will find it boring.
This remake should not have been made. It pales in comparison to the original and its sequels that had gore, humor, and campy as can be. The main problem is there was not much of a plot. These young 20 year olds go out to a cabin because one of them has a drug problem. The others have decided to keep the druggie, Mia, at the cabin as she goes through withdrawals. But as in the original they find a book and the smart one unleashes a demon.Now if you want lots of blood and gore, then the last 45 minutes are for you. People lose limbs, get jaws cut out, nailed by a nail gun. But the last survivor doesn't go all crazy with the chainsaw. I'm pretty sure the chain saw played more of a roll in the original.FINAL VERDICT: OK, for the gore fan, but the original stands alone. There was no need for a remake.
it certainly is nothing that creative. You have to totally suspend reality in order to buy any of this. The movie is about a new nightwatch man, Larry, who discovers the museum comes alive after dark. So, it does lead to some amusing situations. But the monkey was just plain annoying and not believable that it could get the keys all the time. And did there have to be bad guys in this? It was a bad plot development. The drama simply could have been Larry learning to deal with the "museum".And I see that they are planning a sequel to this. Just because a movie does well at the box office, Hollywood thinks it needs a sequel. There is nothing they could add to a sequel and I predict it would be horrible.They should just leave a decent movie alone and not ruin it with an unnecessary sequel.FINAL VERDICT: Ten, Twelve year olds will love this. It's rather cheesy for adults. So, watch it with your kids if you want; otherwise, skip it.
I liked the originality of the story but there are plot holes. The movie completely leaves out how Joey became Tom Stalls. It would have been interesting to find that out. Then at the end, we get a sort of conclusion, but what makes Tom think none of the other gangsters told other mobsters about finding him after all these years. It looks like Tom would always be looking over his shoulder and have to keep the family on the move. I find it hard to believe his wife was so forgiving after finding out he lied to her since he knew her, plus killed people. And she knew he killed those mobsters at the end, but didn't leave him.Tom's nifty fight moves was pretty cool. He certainly knew how to street fight.FINAL VERDICT: I recommend it. It's not the same ole same ole put out by Hollywood every year.
I'm not sure what all the hype about this movie was for. It was very average at best. The only interesting thing about it was Javier Bardem, whom played psychotic killer,Anton Chigurh. Chigurh is so cold blooded, has no conscience about killing and lets his victims choose their fate by a coin flip. Chigurh is chasing Moss because he stole millions from a drug deal gone bad. Chigurh is able to find him first because there is a tracker with the money. But after Moss barely escapes, I didn't get how Chigurh kept finding him since there was no tracker. Also, a small town sheriff is hot on their trail but is always a step behind.The ending was a disappointment. The movie never explained how Moss was tracked to the hotel. Also was the money ever found. And how did Chigurh escape the motel room right before the sheriff went in. Too much info was left out.FINAL VERDICT: It was average. Nothing great. And I wouldn't recommend it unless you want to see a great character in Chigurh.
is the basis of this movie. Julie Roberts plays a woman, Liz, whose job is to travel and then write articles for some travel magazine on her trip. Plus she's married and seems well off. She sure has a lot to be unhappy about, not! But of course she is. All she does is seem unhappy and complain about her life.Soon, in the film, she asks for a divorce. According to the movie it's because her husband is so wishy-washy and he wants to work on the marriage but she's out. She decides to go on an adventure for the year, going to Italy, India, and Bali. And this is after she breaks up with some guy half her age. So, she goes to these places and discovers herself and god and learns to meditate and love herself. In Bali, she meets another guy, this time close to her age, and after a lot of self discovery is finally ready to try love again.This movie was to long and Julie Roberts's character, Liz, just to unlikable. She just wants to complain and complain and there's a lot of people worse off than her. Richard was the only interesting character in the movie.FINAL VERDICT: A movie worth avoiding
but it's not. It's not as mysterious and that and they don't keep you guessing as to what is going on. The movie reveals too early as to what the Joneses are up to. The Joneses are actually a fake family. They are paid advertisers. They move to an affluent neighborhood and befriend as many as they can. Some company gives them all the newest clothes, jewelery, cars, etc. to show off to their rich friends in hopes to influence them to purchase the products. They have 2 high school kids peddling to the teens. The head lady informs them when their sales increase. Here is what I think is a major flaw. These people influence what 30 or 40 people to buy stuff. I don't see how a company is going to make that much more, it's not like they are advertising to thousands.Any ways, the climax happens toward the end when one of the neighbors, one of Steve's friends, does something dramatic about his money issues. Steve feels awful and confesses everything.FINAL VERDICT: The plastic surgery really paid off for Demi. She looks great in this, but I really can't say anything was great about her role. The whole movie is just so so. Not good enough to recommend.
I was not expecting this movie to turn into a fantasy type movie, but that's what it did. I thought it was a comedy like Michael Cera's other movies since he yet again plays the same character. But at least he's good at it. I didn't like how the movie started off like it was supposed to be about real things that could happen, then it turns into a video game as Cera, aka Scott Pilgrim, has to defeat his new girlfriend's (Romona) 7 evil ex's in video game style. They even explode into coins after being defeated. It just made the whole thing silly. I really liked the movie before it started getting silly. Scott's high school girl, Knives, was a cool character and even turns ninja at the end. But it was better when she acted all stalker-esk.FINAL VERDICT: I didn't like this movie. I also don't play video games so that could have something to do with it. Also, I think this movie's target audience is teenage boys, so I don't recommend it unless you fall into that category.
The whole concept of this movie is sometimes you don't always want what you wish for. Adam Sandler plays Michael, a guy who has a great family, but seems to be too preoccupied with his job. He's more concerned about pay raises then spending quality family time. One night he goes to a bed, bath, beyond, which is quite funny while he's in the store. He finds a door that says beyond above it and discovers this wacky guy who has a remote he's been looking for. But this is a special remote. It does what ever you want. Mutes sound, distorts images, fast forwards through what ever you want it too. So Michael uses it skip cold showers, traffic and he can't wait,so uses it to skip to his promotion. Only problem is months go by and he doesn't know what happened in the past. His wife just sees him as a barely conscious work alcoholic and of course this cause marriage problems. He gets fat and so does his son, and his daughter begins to dress like a hooker. And after one fast forward he learns he is divorced and his wife is remarried, but he is a very successful architect.And the wacky guy turns out to be a dark angle. It's like other movies with showing what your life will be like if you don't make changes and put family first. Michael wakes up to find it a dream.This movie is first part comedy, second part drama. David Hasselhoff is funny as the boss as well as the bratty neighbor kid. And Jennifer Coolidge is her usual greatness.FINAL VERDICT: One of Sandlers better films. I thought the first part had a lot of laughs and the film does teach a lesson in the end. I recommend it.
This movie was a little better than I expected it to be. I thought it would be one of those totally ridiculous action movies with corny jokes and lead actors that have no chemistry and a dumb story. Well, it does have some very silly action scenes ( such as Roy on top of a car without holding on and not falling off, or how about when he just shows up on the hood of the car, or escaping a fighter jet on a really tiny island, or on a motorcycle at top speed avoiding bulls and everything else). But, what was surprising was that Cameron Diaz and Tom Cruise had some chemistry on screen and it just wasn't completely awkward. The plot made sense and didn't just come up with crazy twists.It's light hearted with comedy thrown in. I mean when June is in the bathroom on the plane and Roy is killing all the would be killers and not a clue what's going on. That was funny. As well as every time she was drugged and would wake up in different countries.FINAL VERDICT: Worth a viewing for the action fan.
Does murder improve a town? Well if you've seen this movie,then you know the answer. This is another funny British film filled with blood and violence starring Simon Pegg. He plays a no nonsense cop, Angel, whom gets transferred to a small town. One of the first people he arrests is his partner. The town he goes to is known for having the lowest crime rates, but lots of accidents. Soon towns people beginning turning up dead in some very gruesome ways. Angel suspects murder, but some insists on calling them accidents. When the reporter has that steeple fall on his head, that was so gross, and funny in a very weird/wrong kind of way. They even played a little of the Omen music before hand.There's a lot of jokes throughout. It made for an entertaining film, but should have had a little shorter running time.FINAL VERDICT: Seemed a little different than a lot of films out there; made it more enjoyable. I recommend it.
This has to be one of the worst movies of the year. A lot of times a bad movie's saving grace is the special effects, but they were terrible in this. What was all the slo-mo about? From the very opening scene with cgi soldiers instead of real people to the horrible lion to Hercules swinging around 2 huge stones. All of it looked so fake. Another thing, a movie like this needs all the blood and gore and since this was pg-13 everything like that was not shown on screen. When someone put a knife in a chest, there wasn't blood squirting everywhere. Let's not forget how bad the acting was. I'm not sure whom was worse, Kellen or Gaia.FINAL VERDICT: Avoid at all costs.
I didn't like the 2 and 3 sequel to POTC, but I thought this one was a lot better. It wasn't as boring, the story made more sense, and it seemed to be a little shorter. I wasn't expecting much since I hated the third sequel, but like I said, I thought this one was OK.Jack is in London hearing rumors that an impostor is lining up a crew. The impostor is his ex girl, Angelica, the daughter of black beard. The next thing you know, they are on a ship and after the Fountain of Youth. And so is the Spanish and Barbossa. Blackbeard is played by the perfect villain in Ian Mcshane. He almost always plays the bad guy. There are mermaids thrown in, a religious missionary, funny scenes of Jack using coconut trees to corral the Spanish, and a decent ending.FINAL VERDICT: I loved the first POTC and this is the first sequel I can recommend. I thought it was decent, not as boring nor as long.
but then the story starts to decline. The set up is white woman, Brenda, walks into an ER with hand injuries. She says her son was car jacked by a black man in the projects. Detective Council, played by Jackson, knows everyone in that area and is assigned to the case. He tries to break Brenda down because he believes she is not telling the whole story, which turns out to be right. To complicate matters, she has a brother who is a cop and the cops barricade this housing project because they believe the car jacker is there. This causes racial tension, which is what the movie is more about rather than a thriller trying to find a missing child.One complaint I had is during the interrogation scene with Council and Brenda, why doesn't he ever ask her about the son's dad. Also, once we find out what happened to the child, the film is dragged out 20 minutes longer. A lot of those scenes needed to be cut. And why did they keep bringing Brenda down to the projects when all it did was entice a would be riot.I will give Julianne Moore some credit for allowing such close ups of her face with no make-up. It really showed her age.FINAL VERDICT: The beginning makes it seem like a promising thriller and you want to find out what happened to the child. But the ending just gets dragged out and there is little action or mystery as to what happened. I don't think it would be worth paying to see.
it has some laughs getting to the end. I thought some of the things that Jack and Joy did to each other while married were very funny. But to start at the beginning, Joy, Cameron Diaz, is humiliated in front of her friends by her fiancé when he breaks up with her. Jack, Ashton Kutcher, has just been fired by his dad and is not known as marriage material. They are both from New York and decide to go to Vegas with a friend. There is a mix up at the hotel and that is how they meet. And from there they have a fun drunken night and wake up married. But before leaving Vegas, Jack hits a jackpot with Joy's quarter, so the squabbling over the money ensues.A judge sentences them to stay married for 6 months and try to make it work in order for them to split the money. Of course, by now that can't stand each other, so many funny hi-junks ensue in which they try to get the other one to give up or cheat, so they can get all the money. They play some pretty mean pranks on each other. But, when Joy invited Jack to her office retreat to make an impression, they realize maybe the don't hate each other after all. Then you probably can already guess how it ends.FINAL VERDICT: Better than I expected. I recommend it if you are looking for a funny date movie.
suspenseful thriller. Anthony Hopkins plays Ted Crawford a brilliant man who is tired of his cheating wife. He hatches a plan to kill her and get away with it. He thinks he is so smart that he brazenly shoots his wife in the face and when the police come, he even admits he did it. The police have video and no one is seen leaving or coming in. The gun disappears. Crawford insists on defending himself because he thinks he is so smart, he can beat the law system even after admitting he did it. He has a trump card involving the lead detective he reveals in court. But Crawford is so smart in the end because he does the one thing that results in his downfall. All he had to do is leave town, but first he has to show up the hot shot lawyer he played with in court.The acting is good, Hopkins is great as usually. The only negative is too many court room scenes.FINAL VERDICT: Worth seeing if you like any of the main actors. While not great, it was still fun.
letting your child guess which girlfriend became her mother. Will Hayes is going through a divorce and his young daughter,Maya, starts asking questions. He decides to tell her a bedtime story about his previous girlfriends and changes their names. Maya must guess which one became her mother. Sounds like a great game uh. Once you get over this ultra liberal point of view, the rest of the movie is just OK. Will had 3 girlfriends: one was his high school/college sweetheart, one was a co-worker when he worked on Bill Clinton's campaign, and the third was a journalist whom was having an affair with her professor. Will has good times with each woman and also times where they break up. At the very end Will discovers whom the true love of his life was.FINAL VERDICT: Nothing memorable. I wouldn't suggest renting it.
The movie's story wasn't that good. The acting was bad, and the whole film was just boring. First we have this guy, John, whose playing a teen and he looks like he's in his 20s. John's secret is he is an alien with super powers and he has a protector, Henri, whom is his pretend dad. Also there are these bad guy aliens with wrinkly faces whom are tracking him and others like him down. They just killed # three, and John's next. So they move to a new town, and this alien dog shows up and of course, John falls for a girl at school. The school bully is her ex. Could it be any more predictable. The fight scenes aren't anything unique either. And #6 comes to the rescue, a hot Aussie girl.FINAL VERDICT: It's like a bad script of Twilight with aliens instead of vamps. I don't recommend it.
that runs 30 minutes longer than it should. This movie was OK but I didn't buy the love story between Florentino and Fermina as this endless love. It shows them when they are young and all they do is give each other looks and write some letters. They never even really date, yet Florentino calls her the love of his life and says he will wait forever for her. Fermina marries a rich doctor and Florentino still waits for her, but still decides having romances with hundreds of women is the way to go in life. Then the movie turns a little raunchy with sex scenes, not showing a whole but there is a lot of them.Also, having a different actor play Florentino once he is no longer a teen, but having the other actors remain the same didn't work. When Javier Bardem makes his appearance, I thought Florentino was over 40 while the other actors were still supposed to be late twenties. Also, the affair Fermina's husband has is barely acknowledged. There should have been more there.FINAL VERDICT: OK, but a lot of films have done love stories much better than this.
This was a pretty good movie. Kids would probably like it more. In this new version, Dre, a kid, moves to China with his mother. There he makes friends with a cute girl, but gets beat up by school bullies. Mr. Han, the handyman, intervenes one day when Dre's getting beat up. He promises to teach him kung fe and enter him in a tournament. The student/teacher scenes were not as good as the original. How can one forget "wax on, wax off." Mr. Han takes Dre to some mountain to climb and he sees a girl charming a snake. You just know that is going to come back later to help him win the tournament. One side comment, why did they have to make Cheng's teacher so mean to kids. Someone really wouldn't do that to a 10 year old.FINAL VERDICT: Worth checking out, but not anything great.
Al Pacino, plays Dr. Jack Gramm, a forensic psychiatrist/college professor whose testimony convicted serial killer Jon Forster and sentenced him to death. Forster has maintained his innocence, saying Gramm lied and manipulated evidence. Forster's appeals are done, and it is the day of his execution. That morning, Gramm gets a phone call saying that he only has 88 minutes to live. The number 88 has considerable importance to him. Also, that morning one of his students is found dead, in the same manner that Forster killed his victims. Is it a copycat or is Forster really innocence? Through the next 88 minutes, Gramm is trying to find what he says is a copycat and he has help from his students. But, he is suspicious of them as well. Does one of his students have an ax to grind? The ending is so ludicrous. The explanation as to why the killer killed really lowers the IQ level.FINAL VERDICT: Bad script, not much suspense. The ending was too silly. I don't recommend it.
If you are over 13, then you probably won't like this. As a matter of fact it's more for 9 year olds since the best character in the film is Jack Frost played by Martin Short. Jack Frost was the only appealing thing about this movie. I'm not sure why Tim Allen continues to make these horrible sequels. I mean, he made enough money from his TV show. In this sequel, Santa's in laws come to the North Pole to visit. At first they are first tricked into thinking it is Canada. Sounds really funny, right? It's not long before they are told the truth. For some reason never told, Jack Frost wants to be Santa. He learns that if he can get Santa to hold his own snow globe and say he doesn't want to be Santa anymore, it enacts the Escape Clause. Scott is no longer Santa, and Jack can be Santa. The only worthwhile thing that happens with Jack as Santa is he turns the North Pole into an amusement park.The movie is just plain boring and not funny and would only fascinate a 9 year old.FINAL VERDICT: Definitely a sequel to miss.
This movie was better than I thought it would be. It didn't do well in the theater. I think it's because it was made out to be just another Romeo and Juliet story from TV commercials. But, it had more substance than that, plus some fight scenes similar to what's in Braveheart, except less blood. There are beheadings, a hand cut off, people get their abdomens sliced open, but just not graphic.The story follows Tristan, a Brit who is poisoned and thought to be dead. He is sent off in a boat funeral, only to wash ashore in Ireland, his rival. He is found be the Irish princess Isolde and nursed to health. The 2 fall in love. He has to leave to avoid capture. Later the Irish king sets up a tournament for his daughter. Tristan wins, but she goes to his King Marke, not him. She must marry Marke while in love with Tristan. They carry on an affair and their affair almost ends up destroying the kingdom because others find out about it and use it to divide the British tribes apart. As with Romeo and Juliet, the ending is good in some ways but sad in others.The acting was OK, and the direction for the fighting was OK. FINAL VERDICT: Better than your average film. Worth seeing.
This movie was entertaining enough. It held my interest for 100 minutes, but of course being based on Charles Dicken's book, it had nothing new in it. Matthew McConaughey is looking pretty good in this and he plays the jerk, ie. Scrooge. He, Connor, is a womanizer whom learned all the tricks from his uncle Wayne and to never care about the women he dates, which is usually for less than a day. He's attending his brother's wedding and his views on how awful love and marriage is ruins the rehearsal dinner. He also ends up destroying the wedding cake. Jenny is there too, which was Connor's childhood sweetheart. Connor is visited by his uncle and 3 ghosts as they show him how he's hurt Jenny in the past and how his life will end up all alone.So, by the end, Connor is willing to change his ways and wants another chance with Jenny. The movie isn't really funny, it was more like a cute date movie.FINAL VERDICT: Just know this is not a comedy but more of a romance movie. And it's just OK.
After hearing how this was supposed to be one of the worst movies of the year, I was expecting much worse. I found this entertaining enough to sit through. By no means would I call it a good film, it just isn't the worst. It actually made me laugh a few times, mainly because the humor was so gross and silly. There is someone killing man whores in Holland and it's up to Duece and pimp TJ to solve the crimes. TJ gets accused but is more worried about being labeled gay. We have man whore conventions, a woman with an "apdenage" for a nose, which is the grossed joke when she sneezes. Not even dolphins are safe in this.FINAL VERDICT: If you liked the American Pie movies, then you'll probably like this. It does have some gross humor.
I thought this movie was OK, but nothing great. I'm not sure why so many think it is something special. It's about a salty talking teen whom becomes pregnant by her best friend. She just talks about it a crass sort of way, not really taking it seriously. She decides to put the baby up for adoption and picks an upper middle class seemingly happy couple. But, as it turns out they are not as happy as one thinks.A lot of the movie is Juno talking to her friends about various topics, not really much action or advancement of plot.FINAL VERDICT: It was mildly entertaining, but I don't think it was anything new. I'd say this film is more for teens.
This movie was OK. It's probably more for the teen crowd. I thought the original songs were OK. I think the actors that played Curtis and Amelia have potential. The character Rainn Wilson plays made me think of one thing "Jack Black". I mean the role of Fish was perfect for him, but I guess he wouldn't do it, so Wilson took the role.The best parts were when it showed Vesvious starting out. Having Fish chase the van was just creepy and using the drum sticks to punch holes in the roof. You got to love the 80s look with the hair and black eyeliner. Then at the end, they all have British accents.Of course, you have to look past the timeline in order to buy into this film. In the movie, ADD goes from you tube to having a number one album from touring a couple of midwestern states in like 3 months. It's a comedy, so get over it.FINAL VERDICT: If you like the music in this, then you should like the movie. It's nothing earth shattering, but I thought it was 90 minutes of decent entertainment.
This movie was OK, but by no means was it one of Reese Witherspoon's best. It's very predictable and a little on the disgusting side as the woman in the middle decides to sleep with both guys that are best friends.Lauren is a hot mess with bad luck with guys. She meets Tuck and they hit it off, right after, she meets FDR and arranges a date with him. What she doesn't know is they are best friends and CIA agents. So, she starts to date both, getting advice from best friend, Chelsea Handler. Each uses the services of their job to spy on Lauren and find out what she likes. When they start spying on each other's dates, that's when they really go at odds. Then a bad guy shows up and his ending solves the situation between them all.FINAL VERDICT: Not a great chick flick.
Sorry, but this new Freddy Kruger just doesn't cut it. No one can replace Robert England and they should not have tried to. This new guy didn't have a creepy enough voice and the make up wasn't as good. Plus they change Freddy's background story in this remake. You can't do that.In case you lived in a cave, the plot to this is teens are stalked in their dreams by Kruger and if you die in your dream, you die in real life. So teens start getting picked off one by one and it's up to Quentin and Nancy to figure out how to end it before they end up dead.The movie wasn't scary and lacked a lot of "jumps" that you expect in horror movies. The death scenes were nothing great. Also, why do the adults have to be so stupid. Even with their own kids dying, they still don't want to believe that dreaming can lead to death.FINAL VERDICT: Don't waste your time.
I liked this movie. I guess it didn't do that well at the box office because people felt it was a rip off of An Officer and A Gentlemen. And I agree that it was. But I liked AOAAG, so I liked this movie.Kevin Costner plays one of his better roles as of late. And Ashton Kutcher is actually good in this drama. Plus, he is very hot in this with the clean shaven short hair look.Also, I thought the special effects during the rescue scenes were very good. It looked realistic and gave the movie some suspense. The ending was very sad. I would have liked it to turn out different.FINAL VERDICT: Even though this is a long movie, I didn't notice too much because I thought it was entertaining. It should have gotten better reviews when it was in theaters. Check it out when you can.
I really liked the first Mummy. I thought it was witty and mummy special effects were good. I hated the second film; I thought it had one of the worst plots of all time. I thought this movie was a little better than the second one. One of the problems with any sequel to movies like this is the plot is pretty much the same. They use the same humor and it seems the special effects just keep getting worse because the director puts in more and more silly/ outlandish creatures and stunts. For example, yeti come to the rescue??? But one of the worst features of this movie is they had to get another actress to play Evie. Rachel Weiz was great in the role and they chose a non-Brit to be her replacement. Sorry, Maria Bello just doesn't cut it as a witty, British beauty. It is so easy to tell her accent is so fake. She never gets it right.FINAL VERDICT: This movie is geared for those that like action no matter how worthless the plot is. Not my cup of tea, so I don't recommend it.
I am a fan of Will Ferrell, but I just don't think this movie is all that great. Maybe he should stick to just acting and not co-writing movie scripts. I thought the script was poor, not enough of a plot. Plus Ferrell once again plays the same goofy character in this movie. And I'm not a fan of NASCAR so that didn't do much for me.I found a few things funny, but overall it just wasn't a good comedy. Sasha Baron Cohen was probably the funniest thing in the film. He had his little boyfriend and his accent that could barely be understood.FINAL VERDICT: I would skip this Will Ferrell film. His small role in Weddingcrashers was funnier.
This was a pretty good film and good acting. Don't go in expecting a lot of action because you will be disappointed. The main criticism I have is that at times the movie is a little too slow and drags along. But for the most part, it was a good script. The movie takes place in 2 time periods. It jumps back and forth; however, it made sense. It follows a couple, Cindy and Dean, and shows how they fell in love and then how they've grown to dislike each other toward the end of their marriage. The major flaw is the movie never shows why Cindy hates Dean so much. We get the fact she's falling out of love, but why? Is it because Dean never got a good career like she did and drinks too much? Plus we learn they married for the wrong reasons. Cindy finds herself pregnant and it could be Dean's or another guy's, but they decide to marry any way.FINAL VERDICT: It was good and shows a more realistic look at the downfall of a marriage. The acting was good. I recommend it if you want a really dramatic movie.
I like horror movies, but this film was a big disappointment. You would think a director couldn't go wrong with at least being entertaining with a story about a guy turning into a werewolf, but in this movie, it did go wrong. The usually enjoyable Del Toro is boring in this. He plays, Lawerence, whom has just returned to his home land and learns that his brother is missing. They find the brother's body and he has a look of horror in death. So, Lawerence is out to find the monster that killed him. There are rumors about gypsies so he starts there and there is a run with the monster at gypsy camp. Lawerence is bitten, so he turns into a werewolf also. And there is some silly side plot with his brother's widow that didn't even make sense. Lawerence is taken to a psych ward and studied by this guy that thinks it's all in Lawerence's mind. But of course, Lawerence transforms and the guy meets his end.The ending doesn't even make much sense. I involves Lawerence's father, and I think you can probably guess the rest.FINAL VERDICT: a waste of time
I was very impressed with Will Smith's acting performance. This was his best by far. I'm surprised he didn't win all the acting awards. The movie is touching and inspirational. It was also very entertaining. It sure didn't seem like it ran over 2 hours. The story is about Chris Gardner and his son. His wife leaves him during a time of financial troubles. He takes an internship as a stockbroker and getting paid nothing for 6 months in hope that he will be the one person who gets a job. While learning to be a broker, he continues to sell medical equipment, his only source of income. He loses him home and must find a way to take care of his son. Sometimes it is sleeping in a bathroom at the train station. In better times, it is getting a room at the shelter. He learns to do his job faster than everyone else because he has his son to take care of, which means picking him up at daycare and getting in line at the shelter in time.He just does his job and doesn't complain and in the end is rewarded for his struggles. A true American dream.FINAL VERDICT: Very inspirational. Smith does a great job and you really hope he is rewarded.
This is not a slap stick comedy, but it is entertaining and amusing. It was one of the better movies of the year. Olive has a chance to enter the Little Miss Sunshine pageant. It is a very long drive from her house to the pageant. Her dad, mom, brother, granddad, and uncle all make the trip in VW that they have to push in order to start it. The granddad like to cuss and is a heroin addict. The Uncle was just released from a psych ward after attempting suicide. The brother has taken a vow of silence until he gets into the air force. The dad is motivational speaker who is trying for a book deal. The mom just tries to keep the family together.Of course, this road trip has many obstacles to overcome. Grandpa dies and they steel his body out of the hospital. The dad finds out he didn't get the book deal. The uncle runs into the guy that made him attempt suicide. The brother finds out he is color blind, which may be the best scene of the film.And once at the pageant, it is quite apparent that Olive is not a beauty queen. And disaster strikes when it's her turn for the talent show.FINAL VERDICT: Good, not the best film out there. But entertaining with interesting characters.
I would describe this movie as a drama aimed for the older crowd. It's basically about 2 lonely older people whom have a chance encounter, and they both feel a connection and have hope they can become a couple. Harvey has come to London from America to see his daughter get married. He doesn't have a close relationship with her and only plans to stay for the ceremony then leave. Well, he misses his flight and is informed by his boss he's been let go. So, he meets Kate at a bar in the airport. They 2 talk and he follows her around the rest of the day. She insists he goes back to his daughter's wedding reception. He says he'll go if she will come. The 2 have a great time. He gets a call saying he has his job back, but turns his boss down. Kate is a reason for him to stay in London, and the 2 have a happy ending with hope of a future together.Thompson and Hoffman were OK together, but he is a little old for her. And their whole meeting was a little too fairy tailish, but it's Hollywood.FINAL VERDICT: It was a sweet movie with a happy ending. I recommend it if you want to see a romance film.
This movie really wasn't that good. It's not much of an action movie and stars Liam Neeson, an actor turned action star once he reached 60. Social media, aka texting, is basically the star of the show. Neeson plays troubled air marshall, Bill Marks, whom is on a plane to London. On the plane, he starts receiving text messages from someone threatening to kill passengers if he doesn't get a lot of money transferred to a bank account. Marks uses cameras to come up with suspects whom may be using a phone. Sure enough, a few die, but at whose hands. Then a bomb comes into play.Can Marks find the hijackers, whom by the way, has become the main suspect with authorities on the ground, save everyone left on the plane and keep the bomb from destroying the plane? FINAL VERDICT: It's OK, but having the text messages appear on the screen just made it seem so cheap, like a TV movie. Not Neeson's best action movie.
I haven't given many of my reviews a 10, but this one I will because I loved this story. First, it's about one of the most incredible animals, a dolphin, and I love dolphins. They are so smart and friendly and this was a wonderful tale about a dolphin rescue. The dolphin, Winter, loses its tale after being rescued. The way she learns to swim is damaging her spine so they must come up with a prosthetic tale so that she uses the muscles in her spine correctly.The movie is also about Sawyer, a kid that helps with the rescue and needs something in his life to motivate him. Introduce Winter, and he sees helping her as something to look forward too. Sawyer and Hazel, a kid that works at the aquarium, make it their mission to help Winter. I also loved how Winter would just perk up when Sawyer was around, she would whistle and start eating.It was just a very touching movie, FINAL VERDICT: I highly recommend this.
This movie wasn't very good. It brings nothing new to previous giant killer creature films. The plot is nothing great. A few news reporters are sent to a poverty stricken, war torn African country to track down a killer crocodile called Gustave. So of course not only do they have to fight the croc, they are also in trouble with the local war lord.The croc resembles something from a sci-fi channel TV movie. It just looked very fake. And the few scenes that showed the croc were very fast and blurry, it was hard to tell what was even going on. There is little blood and gore and it certainly isn't scary.FINAL VERDICT: Poor special effects. Not even good enough to be one of those B movies that are fun to watch.
This movie was sort of a dark comedy. It was amusing at times, but not what I would call funny. Victor is a sex addict that goes to meetings, but is still hooking up with a girl there. He has mommy issues. His mother was delusional and would leave him with foster families and then come take him away. He visits his mother at a mental hospital. He meets her new doctor, Paige, and immediately wants to get with her. He also has a friend, Denny, that goes to meetings too. You know when Paige suggests she have Victor's kid to help his mother in some kind of operation, you know something is off.FINAL VERDICT: Interesting at times and it's short. Consider checking it out if you see it on cable.
rather than what her life was like once her memory started to fail. We get some scenes of Thatcher being a tough, opinionated leader, but a lot of it is after her husband has died and dementia has set in. I would have liked it to be more of a biography of her Prime Minister years. Did we need to see so much of her talking to a hallucination?Meryl Streep was good in this, but the make-up is what was award winning. I don't think she deserved the acting awards for this role, but for other roles in which she didn't win.FINAL VERDICT: Sort of boring, should have shown MT more in her prime. Only worth watching if you love history of Britain.
This "date" movie is a little different. Instead of the usual romantic comedy, this one centers around making an adult film. Zack and Miri are long time child hood friends whom are roommates and having a hard time paying the bills. They go to a high school reunion and meet an old classmate that is now a gay adult porn star. This gives them the idea to make a porno in order to make some quick cash. So, they find some people to be in the film. The funniest character was Delaney, the fellow coffee shop employee and financial backer. He had some good lines.There wasn't much nudity as one would expect. I thought it was tame. So Zack and Miri get it on for the film and realize they are in love. Of course, they have a fight but you can figure out how it ends.FINAL VERDICT: It had some laughs, worth watching on cable.
doesn't make it a good movie. I thought this movie was fair. Not much really happens and it tries to make you cry in hopes that you will think it is good. It's about a couple and their life 8 months after their 4 year old son was killed in a car accident. Kidman, plays Becca, the mom whom tries to pretend she isn't as heart broken. She forms a bond with the teenager that accidentally hit her son and killed him. That is just weird. I don't think anyone would really do that. Then her husband, Howie, forms a bond with a woman from group, whose husband has just left her.It's all just sad, but tugging on your tear ducts doesn't automatically make it great. For me, not enough drama happens. The other drama deals with Becca's sister whom finds herself pregnant after stealing her friend's man. Part of Becca probably doesn't think her sister deserves the child.FINAL VERDICT: It was fair but I prefer more excitement.
This story is about a very dysfunctional family whom has a deaf mute come live with them after her father dies. Nina the couples popular daughter is always picking on Dot but soon learns Dot may be keeping a secret. She tells Dot her secret because she really believes Dot can hear and will some how help her out. Her mom is a prescription drug addict and is living in a fog and pretends she doesn't know what is going on between her husband and daughter. Dot does something drastic, but Nina's mom ends up taking the blame.FINAL VERDICT: At least the plot is a little something different. It's dark but entertaining enough. Those who like non conventional films may like this.
This movie was OK, but I certainly would not have given it any awards for best movie. But I do think Colin Firth and Geoferry Rush deserved acting awards. I'm surprised Rush didn't win the awards too instead of just being nominated. I just don't get why a movie about a guy getting coached by an actor to learn to speak better is such a great idea. The movie was more like a TV movie because such little happened.I mean, the exciting scene of the film is when Bertie starts cursing while practicing his speech. Then the dramatic last scene is Bertie and his coach in a room reading a speech. Can the excitement please stop!FINAL VERDICT: It's OK, but I wouldn't recommend it for someone whom loves action films.
This does not star Kurt Russell, but rather allows him what amounts to an extended cameo. This work is more centered around the "son of" story line than it is the actual super heroes themselves, thereby failing to deliver the appropriate level of entertainment, and contributing instead, that enigmatic substance known as "kid appeal." I expected more. But having said that, there is more to this work than meets the eye. The story is modeled after the old classic "B" science fiction movies we hate to love, but do. The effects are nothing spectacular, but are still above what you would expect, all things considering. And beneath the camp, lies a stronger feeling, reminiscent of a classic superhero story, yet it still fails to achieve the desired affect; if only marginally.It was entertaining and I still had great fun in watching it.This rates an 8.1/10 from...the Fiend :.
This movie was such a let down. From the short running time to the very bad ending, it was just blah! The film starts off promising with a science experiment going bad and a girl disappears. Then some time has passed and we see a young couple, Kelly and Ben, moving into a house. It doesn't take long before weird things start to happen. Furniture moves , a dog dies, weird noises, scratches on the wall. Kelly finds Ben's secret chest filled with ghost things and learns that Ben was involved with bringing an evil spirit to this world. Now the spirit is following them around, not just at the house. Ben gets help from fellow ghost experimenter, Patrick, but that doesn't last long. Kelly and Ben flee the house and the ending is horrible, it was such a give up.FINAL VERDICT: A wanna be poltergeist, skip it.
I thought this animated film was OK, but I'm sure 10 year old kids would love it. The best part of the film is the stellar animation; definitely one of Dreamworks best efforts. The story is about a panda, Po, whom loves kung fu. He is chosen to become the dragon warrior over the fab 5. As the chosen one, he is allowed to look at the dragon scroll and is destined to defeat Tai Lung, an evil snow leopard. Po is taught kung fu by his master Shifu and the other main characters were the fab 5, the snake, tiger, mantis, monkey, and crane. The film is written to be funny, and is somewhat amusing. But the story is nothing new.FINAL VERDICT: Entertaining for a kids film. I'd only recommend it if you are watching it with your kids since I think this is more a kids film.
This movie was OK, even if the aliens were invisible. And I guess it must be a lot cheaper to film in Russia, since they have Americans in Moscow. Sean and Ben have gone to Moscow for a business meeting. After their plans go wrong, they meet two hot girls at a club, then chaos breaks out. They hide in the cellar for several days, then are on a mission to find survivors. The aliens give off electric waves, which they come up with devices to use to track them since the aliens are invisible.The special effects were OK, I thought it was cool to have the people turn to ash in a second. The aliens, when stunned, were weird, they could have been done better.FINAL VERDICT: Worth checking out on cable.
I thought this was a good action movie, along the lines of Bruce Willis in Die Hard. Channing Tatum was kick *ss in this. He plays wannabe secret service agent John Cale, whom has a job interview at the White House. He brought his daughter along to impress her. But they picked the wrong day for a White House tour.Terrorists invade and overtake the White House. Now you have to suspend reality to believe that this could happen. And to make matters worse, it's an inside job. John has to go find his daughter, hence, kick *ss action ensues. He's got an answer for all the bad guys. And once he teams up with the President, better watch out. So of course they try to escape but something always happens during the middle of the film.At the end, they gotta stop some nukes.FINAL VERDICT: Entertaining, plot makes sense, of course not all that realistic. Definitely worth checking out for all the action fans.
I'm shocked at how many good reviews this movie got here. I thought it was terrible and one of the worst movies I've seen. I found nothing funny about it all. It was one of the most poorly written scripts I've seen. What's funny about an eagle stealing a little dog and what's funny about naming a dog Kevin? How about nothing. From Betty White doing a crazy dance in the wood and then Sandra Bullock singing that dirty song with her to the silly town stripper to the baby maker blanket, nothing was funny and it was so poorly written.Also Bullock and Reynolds had absolutely no chemistry together. Plus I couldn't get over the fact that Sandra Bullock is like over 10 years older than Ryan Reynolds and looks it. I mean, it is just not believable that he would fall in love with her over a couple of days in Alaska when he couldn't stand her in New York.FINAL VERDICT: I now see why Bullock won that award for worst actress for this movie. It was deserving.
I didn't think this movie was very good. I like a lot of romantic comedies, but this one was just not that good. It's too unbelievable. We are supposed to just accept that Anna, a stager, that obviously likes the finer things in life by desperately wanting to get an apartment in an exclusive building and has a cardiologist boyfriend, just decides to leave the doctor for a small town guy in Ireland after knowing him for 3 or 4 days. Please! Anna'a boyfriend, Jeremy, goes to Ireland for a conference. She decides to follow to propose due to an Ireland tradition of women proposing on Leap Year. Weather causes her to take a boat from England to Ireland and she ends up in a small town. She hires Declan to drive her to Dublin. A series of misadventures occurs and for someone reason this guy continues with her after his car gets wrecked. And these couple of days with him apparently makes Anna see her boyfriend is not that great. I didn't buy it.FINAL VERDICT: There are other romance movies that are much better than this. Watch one of them.
I thought this movie was horrible. I have no idea why it was made and the whole point of it. It is about 2 young people who fall in love and some how the Vietnam war keeps them apart and there is also a lot of war protesting involved. Beatle songs are sung all the time. Doesn't really have much to do with what little plot there is.No wonder I had never heard of this film before seeing it on cable. It was a complete waste of time. It was a bunch of hodge podge of songs and visual effects thrown in.FINAL VERDICT: One of the worst films I've seen. There was nothing interesting about it.
that deviates from the original. Mari survives her gunshot and even makes it back to her parent's house. In the original, she seemed quite dead in the lake. This new version follows the original pretty closely except for that point. This movie lacked the almost satiric humor from the original, and the gang doesn't humiliate the girls as much in the woods as in the original. But, still, this movie is gross and not for the squeamish or kids. At least at the end, you can root for the parents. In this, they come up with a good way to do Krug in. Mari's dad comes up with a torturous demise.FINAL VERDICT: For all the gore and blood fans, this movie has quite a bit. I recommend it for those that like sick thrillers.
There wasn't a whole lot to this movie. It's about a woman, Rose, that works as a cleaning lady, has a dysfunctional son, and is having an affair with a married man,a cop. She just doesn't think she's the kind of girl that can get a guy to marry her. The cop tells her money is to be made in cleaning up after crime scenes and deaths. So, she gets her sister to help her out and they start up this business. She makes some money all the while pretending she is going to take real estate classes. She also befriends the guy whom works at the cleaning supply store. Then there is the side story of a father that comes up with schemes that never work, like selling popcorn or trying to sell scrimp.And that is about all there is to this story. Rather boring.FINAL VERDICT: Not interesting. Don't bother.
After I first watched this movie, I thought it was very creepy and really good. Now, after reading some of these reviews, I see I was tricked. I admit I fell for the real documentary footage. I thought it was supposed to be real and in that case, it makes this movie scary. Now, I find out it was all fake and even the "real" Dr. Abby Tyler was a fake. I'm still going to give the movie a 8 because it was still better than I lot of movies that are released. And I liked the concept of real footage along with the movie part. I guess I should have know because if the footage were real, I think one would of heard about it years ago. I mean it shows part of a spaceship.FINAL VERDICT: I still recommend this movie, just don't look it up on the internet before watching it.
The movie was OK, but it just didn't seem to be that original. Maybe it's been to long since the first one came out. It's an adventure/action film, but they decided to force comedy. It didn't work. I mean a horse catching a pipe thrown off a balcony and smoking it. Come On! There weren't many sword fights and nothing new. This time Zorro and Elena have a kid, who is more of an acrobat. At least they made the villain French. The story tried to reinvent history, by giving the south a reason it didn't win the Civil War.Also, even though no blood is shown, I thought it was a little gruesome because quite a few people get blown up - one guy even is at the front of a train collision. Just because it doesn't show body parts flying around, doesn't mean it's not gross.FINAL VERDICT: Too violent for young kids. It was decent but I wouldn't pay to watch it.
I have to admit, I thought a fiery skeleton on a blazing motorcycle was a pretty good idea. I liked the whole Johnny Blaze/ Ghost Rider character. I thought the special effects for the Ghost Rider and his motorcycle were well done. I did think Nick Cage looked weird with that dark hair piece he was wearing. He felt sort of miscast in the role.And for some reason they had Eva Mendez wearing shirts that were too small and only buttoned half way up. I mean, it looked like she was fixing to explode out of her shirts. But, I guess that was to appeal to the teenage boy audience.I liked Sam Elliots's role too. His deep voice just sounds so perfect for the movies.Blackheart looked like a wimpy goth. And the bad guys are defeated very easily by the Ghost Rider. But the Ghost Rider's pentance stare was awesome.One glaring plot hole: How did the police connect a bunch of frozen bodies to a motorcycle stunt driver and arrest him for their murders?FINAL VERDICT: Much better than expected. I thought visually, the movie was great. The script could have been better, but it was interesting enough.
All these very positive reviews on here must be from people whom didn't see the first X-Men movie because this one pales in comparison. I really liked the first one, but this one was just not that good. The actors and characters are not as good and the story line is much slower.The main plot is how Magneto and Xavier were friends at first and worked together but then parted ways as Magento saw their mutations as a way to dominate humans. They find other mutants in the most boring musical montage. The only redeeming character is the baddie played by Kevin Bacon. He was a great bad guy.FINAL VERDICT: After seeing it, I say skip it.
I always thought these 2 were great on SNL, and they are funny in this movie. Fey plays, Kate, successful middle age woman whom has yet to marry but wants a baby. After failing to conceive herself, she enlists the help of a surrogate mother service. Sigourney Weaver plays the owner of the service and her running gag is she is old yet still having babies. The other cameo is Steve Martin, Kate's boss, whom is a kooky, earthy, spiritual weirdo. Poehler plays Angie, the woman hired by the agency. Angie has a loser boyfriend Tom whom came up with the idea for her to be a surrogate. Angie tells Kate that the first try was a success, she's pregnant. She leaves Tom and moves in with Kate. They soon become friends. But it turns out Angie lied about being pregnant for the money. She feels bad about it now, but doesn't know how to tell the truth. They go to a sonogram appointment and just as Angie is about to tell the truth, the doctor finds a baby's heart beat. So, then the question becomes: is the baby Kate's or Angie and Tom's. Along the way Kate meets Rob, and they go out a while. Does Kate get what she wants, a baby, one way or the other? FINAL VERDICT: It had some funny moments. I found it entertaining, and recommend it.
This movie had a bad script, but the worst part was the 2 lead actors. Vannessa Hudgens and Alex Pettyfer had no chemistry and were terrible actors in this. So, in the movie, the resident school witch/goth girl, puts a curse on Kyle, the rich, rude, mean bully. He is transformed into a bald dude with tattoos and veins all over his face. She says he must get another to say they love him within a year, otherwise, he will remain like this. So, his shallow father hides Kyle away in an apartment, he drops out of school. One night, he saves a girl, Lindy, from a drug dealer. She happens to be a schoolmate of his. And she just agrees to come live in his apartment for safety, silly. Anyways, its very predictable after this. However, does Kyle really learn his lesson, considering the only girl he wants to talk to is another very pretty girl. He still only sees the outside beauty.FINAL VERDICT: All of it was a train wreck.
There wasn't a whole lot I liked about this film. It just seemed like there would be some action, then filler, then action and so on. Not much of a story. What story there is centers about twins, a prince and princess. The prince is evil and is looking for 3 parts of a magical crown that when assembled gives the wearer command over the golden army, which is the most powerful supernatural army in the world.Hellboy is still working for the government and still with Liz, whom is given a silly side plot of being pregnant. The princess runs off with the third crown piece and seeks help from Abe, Hellboy, and friends. The prince tries to get it back, finally does and then there is a short sequence of what the golden army can do and then finally the final fight scene between him and Hellboy.Most of the movie is just mindless action, like with the giant plant, the huge monster at the troll market, etc... and it just gets to the point it is stale and bland. If they don't have a decent story, then sequels don't need to be made.FINAL VERDICT: Gets tiring to sit through the same fighting over and over. I don't recommend it.
This is another romantic comedy in which one of the leads is a ghost. It's been done several times before, but this version was still entertaining. The 2 lead actors, Reese and Mark, worked good together. Reese plays, Elizabeth, a work-a-holic doctor who is involved in a car accident. Next we meet, David, who is looking for an apartment and rents Lizzy's. Next thing he knows, he sees Lizzy telling him it's her apartment and to get out. Only problem, she's walking through objects and is a ghost. Only David can see her. He helps her discover who she was and what happened. They discover she's at the hospital in a coma and not dead. It's up to the 2 to figure out how to get her spirit back into her body before the plug is pulled.I thought it was cute and it did have some funny moments. Most of them being David seemingly talking to himself as witnessed by others since they can't see Lizzy. It ends how all romantic comedies ends.FINAL VERDICT: Fun, entertaining. I recommend it.
I think Rio makes for a great kids film that adults will enjoy also. I also liked the fact that the animals didn't talk to the people but among themselves. There were a couple of cute songs and lots of famous people doing voice overs. The story revolves around the last 2 blue macrows, a male and female. Blu lives in Minnosote with Linda while Jewel is with an ornithologist, Tulio, in Brazil. Tulio shows up when day and tells Linda they should bring the two birds together to continue the survival of the species. Linda agrees but disaster results when the birds are kidnapped by smugglers. The rest of the movie is about the birds escaping with help from their animal friends and their owners searching also. It had a strong family feeling and ends perfectly.FINAL VERDICT: Worth checking out.
after watching this movie, it would appear so. I really liked the first F&F; it was really neat with all the cool cars and driving stunts and it at least had a descent story line. Now with this sequel, there was absolutely nothing new. The cars aren't near as cool and the story line is trash. Vin Diesel was an up and coming star in the original. Now, his career has gone no where and he's forced to be in this sequel when he thought he was too good to be in the second sequel. And Paul Walker is certainly a looker, but his acting ability has gotten him no where as far as starring in big films. His line delivery is as bad as ever in this.FINAL VERDICT: Very disappointing when compared to the original. I wouldn't care to watch it again.
This was my first experience with anything HSM related and I regret having decided to watch this. I like musicals, so I thought there would at least be catchy songs to like. Well, there aren't. I can't see how anyone could like this unless you are a 10 year old girl. The acting is horrible, and the fake lip-singing is so awful. It doesn't even sound like their voices. Plus, the songs are horrible. The music, the lyrics, all of it. I know I never liked corny shows like this when I was a kid. I feel bad for all the parents that took their kids to the theater to see this and had to sit through it. Maybe some were smart enough to bring ear plugs and blindfolds.FINAL VERDICT: One of the worst scripts and songs for a musical that's ever been made. Only watch it if you want to be tortured.
Ben Affleck not so much. Without Crowe, this movie would be bad, but he makes it interesting. Affleck is far from convincing as a congressman. He just looks to young and not smart enough to ever be in that position. I think Crowe would have been better as the politician and Affleck as the reporter. And for some reason they hired a well known actress, Rachel Mcadams, to play the other reporter, Della. She really didn't do much and they should have just hired an unknown. I like Robin Wright Penn. She should be in more movies. She just looked out of place as Affleck's wife but that's because Affleck can't pull of that role.FINAL VERDICT: There's quite a few twists at the end. If you pay attention, it does make sense and makes for an OK story.
The movie is about several guys that work for a money pick up service. They drive those armored vehicles. They have a big pick up, 42 million dollars, and decide to fake a robbery attempt and take the money for themselves. Well the minute they drive in to an abandon warehouse, thing go south, very south. A homeless guy sees them, then one of the guys, Ty, backs out, a policeman shows up, and Ty gets locked in one of the trucks. Ty comes up with a clever plan to save himself and the cop. But my question is, how does one lift up the floor on a truck like that? That was far fetched.FINAL VERDICT: It was a short movie but moved at a good pace and was entertaining. Worth seeing on cable.
I'm usually not very good at predicting twist endings, but even I could see this one coming from a mile away. I mean, when Teddy keeps seeing visions of a dead woman, and we are told there is a missing patient, it doesn't take much to put two and two together.The gist of the film is 2 federal marshals go to Shutter Island to investigate the disappearance of a patient from a mental asylum. The boss, Teddy, asks a lot of questions, but doesn't get a lot of answers. The story he is told makes it seem impossible for the patient to have vanished from her cell. We soon see things aren't what they seem and there is an even more dangerous patient on the lose.FINAL VERDICT: It's OK, but it doesn't take a genius to figure out what is going on.
Affleck is good in this movie. He plays one sick puppy. Affleck, plays sheriff Lou, a seemingly regular Texas country boy. But he has some dark things in his past we see through a few flashbacks, such as he raped a young girl and he whipped an older woman, whom I thought was supposed to be his momma.He starts an affair with a prostitute, Joyce, and their affair involves belts and bruises. He learns a man in town was responsible for his brother's death and his son is shagging Joyce. So, he comes up with a plan to kill Joyce and the son. He kills Joyce in a very violent sick way.In order to cover up what he did, he continues to lie and kill others if he thinks it's necessary. Including Amy, the girl he says he loves, and doesn't really know anything about what he did. He is just a sick freak.Now the ending, what I didn't get was if he poured gas and alcohol all over his house, wouldn't the police have smelt it when entering his house and known something was up. Also, a surprise witness turns up at the end, whom is unbelievably loyal. She's sick in the head.FINAL VERDICT: I liked it. If the violence won't bother you, check it out.
just watch this movie and you will see how easy it is. I mean if a man can build a space rocket in his barn, just think how easy it would be to assemble a bomb or WMD. BTW, the question is asked of Charles Farmer if it is a WMD. Of course, I'm being facetious here. The movie is more of a fantasy than anything else. Charles Farmer is willing to loose his house and put his family in debt just to realize a dream that would be impossible except in Hollywood. I think it would be sad for a man to do that to his kids and wife. Of course, in this film they make up for it by having his father in law die, so him and his wife inherit some money to finish the space rocket. Also, is he not worried about his kids seeing him blow himself up. It's very selfish on his part.The whole ending is anti-climatic. As for Billy Bob, surely he can do better than this role.FINAL VERDICT: Not very inspiring and seemingly impossible. I don't recommend it.
What a disappointing movie. Not much happens. It's basically about a couple, Frank and April, and how they argue all the time. April is basically a basket case; crying a lot and telling Frank she doesn't love him any more. Frank has affairs; she doesn't care. She has them herself.The couple have 2 kids; however, they are hardly in the movie. That didn't make sense. I know at one point the kids where supposed to be gone somewhere, but the movie never said. And at other times, like when the couple would be eating dinner, the kids were missing. That was just weird.At the end of the movie, April does something destructive with severe consequences. She truly need to see a psychiatrist.FINAL VERDICT: Boring, it's mainly a movie about arguing. I don't recommend it.
This movie offers a different twist to the usual Robin Hood story. It's not really about Robin stealing from King John, but it's about how he was an archer in the army, then by circumstances, posed as a knight, and then said he was Robert Loxley of Nottingham. He goes to Nottingham to return the dead Robert's sword to his father. The father asks him to hang around and pretend to be his son and the husband to Lady Marion.During this time, France attacks England. Robin is a hero in battle, and England wins. John becomes greedy again and makes Robin a wanted man for pretending to be a knight. So, this is how he became an outlaw stealing from the rich and giving to the poor. He even has his band of merry men with him.FINAL VERDICT: If you can catch it on cable, it's worth checking out.
I just really don't like movies or TV shows that glorify pot like it is no big deal. And not only that, the 2 potheads deal to school age kids like it's no big deal. Not every kid wants to try pot and selling to kids is very wrong and not funny. Also, I think some of the Hollywood liberals need to remember that pot is still illegal. But after looking over that part, James Franco and Seth Rogan are funny in this.Dale witnesses a murder by a big time drug dealer and he throws his roach out his car before leaving. Ted, the dealer, recognizes the pot as Pineapple Express and knows the dealer he gave it too, Saul. Dale runs over to Saul's in hysterics and they soon realize, Ted maybe able to track them through the Pineapple Express, so they go on the run. They have a whole escape in the woods. They go to Red's to find out what he knows about Ted. The time they spend at Red's is funny and they are involved in one huge house fight. Dale warns his girlfriend at a funny dinner scene. The 2 track Ted and Saul is in heaven when he is caught and taken to the big pot growing plant. The final showdown is when the Korens show up, whom also want a big slice of the drug market.FINAL VERDICT: Good, lots of fowl language, so if that doesn't bother you, check this out.
Sorry, but this movie was horrible compared to Toby Mcguire's first Spiderman. I loved that Spiderman movie; it was funny and had a great story. In this remake, it's not funny and everything in it has been seen before. And Andrew Garfield goes around with his hair sticking up and just wasn't good casting. The way Peter Parker finds out about his super powers was no where near as good. And this movie copy cats so much from the first, like having Ben die, how he designs the spidey suit, how he gets back at the bully at school. And all of it was done worse in this film than the first one.FINAL VERDICT: I'm so glad I waited till this was on cable so I didn't pay to watch it. I recommend watching the Toby Mcguire ones and staying away from this.
This movie was a real sleeper, as in putting you to sleep. It is very similar to Russell Crowe's the Insider except that movie was much better and Crowe was a lot better than Matt Damon. The movie is about a whistle blower concerning price fixing. We see Damon at various places around the world and not much happens. He goes to meetings and makes phone calls to the FBI. He also makes tapes and is lying and stealing money. I don't call that very entertaining and the whole price fixing doesn't even make much sense if you aren't some businessman. Definitely a waste of time.FINAL VERDICT: It will put you to sleep.
I've seen Simon Pegg in his other British comedies, and all of them were funny. This movie is no exception. While not the best comedy I've seen this year, it was certainly in the top 5.Pegg, plays Dennis, an overweight mall security guard that left his pregnant fiancé at the wedding alter. His finance, Libby, played by the beautiful Thandie Newton, has moved on in the past 5 years and has a new boyfriend, Whit. Now, the main thing you have to get past is that a guy, like Dennis, whom really doesn't have that many options, would leave a hot girl like Thandie Newton. Once you get over this, it makes the film a lot better.Dennis would still like to get back together with Libby and his son. He decides to compete with Whit and enter a running marathon. Of course, he is in no shape to run, but is determined to try to work out and get better. Will he be able to complete the race before Whit? Some of the funny scenes include, Dennis in little running shorts, Dennis and Whit in the locker room, Gordon below the waist, Dennis chasing the trany at the mall, his jock itch, etc... It made me laugh out loud a lot.FINAL VERDICT: If you have seen any other of Simon Pegg's films and liked them, I'm sure you will like this too.
I really liked this movie, but they should have come up with a different name because it spoils the entire movie. From the start, you know only one of the Seals is going to make it.Anyways the story takes place in Afghanistan where 4 Seals are sent on a mission in the mountains to take out a Taliban leader. Their mission is compromised when 3 goat herders stumble onto them. My biggest question is, why didn't they just leave them tied up till the mission was over, and then release them. Or why not wait until dark, knock all 3 out, untie them, then get out of there before they could warn the Taliban. The solution they chose was stupid on their part.Anyways, soon the Seals are surrounded and a thrilling gun fight ensues. It's very disturbing to think anyone in real life being in that situation. Also, I find it hard to believe that the villagers would help an American, but maybe that part is true. I guess they thought the Taliban was worse.FINAL VERDICT: Good story, intense action, definitely check it out.
and guess what Suzanne Sarandon is in it. Surprise, Surprise. Anyways the great Tommy Lee Jones plays another tough Texan; this time a once proud member of the the police force but retired. His son has returned from Iraq and gone missing. A body turns up that has been chopped up and burned and it's his son. He won't stop till he finds out who is responsible. Did his son have enemies or is it a drug deal gone bad? He thinks he has to keep on top of things because the military will try to keep things low key to ward off bad publicity. He helps local detective Emily Sanders with looking for clues and interviewing witnesses.The movie works the tension well as I was quite enthralled as to what really happened. And why would someone commit such a horrible crime? The answer at the end was quite sad that soldiers would come back to the USA with compulsions to do such things.FINAL VERDICT: Entertaining, and liked the mystery to it all
This movie is a love story centering around salmon. First, you have Dr. Alfred Jones whom has lucked up because a very rich Sheikh wants to pay him double his salary to bring salmon to the Yemon. Alfred works with Harriet, whom is working with the Sheikh to set up the project. She has a boyfriend whom is deployed and Alfred is married, but has grown apart from his wife. Of course, Alfred thinks the whole idea is silly but if he can spend someone else's money to see if it is possible, he is up for the task. Plus the English government wants the project to pan out for good publicity. So, Alfred and Harriet grow closer, and even save the Sheikh's life. They want the project to work to improve the water supply for Yemon also. Some outlaws try to sabotage it at the end, but the fish prevail.FINAL VERDICT: It was OK, definitely for love story fans.
I've never seen the TV show, but I thought this movie was cute, but definitely aimed for young girls. It had more comedy then I expected and was amusing. Since it is Disney, of course it's going to be cheesy. Like why was Rascal Flatts in this and why did Taylor Swift make a 10 second appearance. I'm surprised Miley would even allow them to be in the film since they can sing and she's not much of a singer. And none of the songs were catchy except the Hoedown song. The songs in the film had substance similar to cotton candy, by that I mean no thought just silly fluff.FINAL VERDICT: Only for fans of the TV show.
I didn't really care for this movie. I thought it was boring. It takes place in England where Marilyn Monroe has gone to star in a movie with Sir Laurence Olivier. She's always late to set and can't remember her lines. The film depicts her as a selfish, pill popper. She befriends a gofer on the set, Colin Clark. Colin is memorized by her beauty and fame and can look over her less than stellar qualities. She takes a liking to him since he doesn't criticize her over being late and other things. She over dramatizes everything and wants Colin by her side to make it better. He takes her out to see the country side and helps sober her up. And that's basically it till they finish filming the movie. So, you can see how many would find this boring.As for the acting, Judy Dench was the best. I didn't think Michelle Williams was good enough to get any nominations. I mean all she does is have this spaced out look on her face most of the time.FINAL VERDICT: Don't waste your time.
Bizarre. This movie is supposed to be based on a famous photographer, but everything that happens in this movie is fiction. I guess it tries to explain why Diane Arbus had a fascination with oddities and made it her primary photography focus. In the movie, wolfman moves into the apartment above hers. She seemingly becomes obsessed with him and falls for him. She puts her kids and husband second over the wolfman, and even tries to incorporate him into her family gatherings. Some of the wolfman's freak show side kicks come over to visit and she mingles with them. The whole thing is very bizarre.FINAL VERDICT: Nothing memorable. There is just something weird about a woman who gets her jollies from shaving the wolfman. I think you can find better films out there.
but not that great of an actor in this. He plays, Leo, a man whose wife loses her memories of him, after a car accident. Paige remembers her life before Leo, so he's basically a stranger. The movie is about Leo trying to make his wife fall in love with him again. Obstacles to over come are her old fiancé and Paige's rich parents. It seems Paige had cut ties with them, but now doesn't remember this, so she goes back to live with them. Leo doesn't tell her what went down because he doesn't want to hurt her again. The story is sort of romantic, but the acting not that great.FINAL VERDICT: perfect if you want a chick flick
even though I wouldn't call this a great film. It was OK, a little slow paced but entertaining enough. Eastwood plays Walt, a recent widow whom still lives in the old neighborhood surrounded by foreigners. He's racist and mean. What I really didn't like and didn't think very realistic was when they would show him growl and grimace at people just because of the way they looked. It was over the top. The movie is about him learning tolerance and befriended his Hmong neighbors. He befriends the young girl there, Sue and her brother, Thao. Thao has a cousin in a gang that keeps trying to get him to join and Walt becomes involved. Walt is shown going to the doctor and spitting up blood. The movie never says what is wrong but it's safe to bet he had some kind of bad disease, so that is supposed to make it better for what happens in the end to Walt.FINAL VERDICT: If you don't mind the language, worth checking out.
A lot is going on in this movie. It's about 3 Isreali agents, Rachel, Stephan and David. They are assigned a mission to capture a nazi war criminal and bring him back to stand trial. They capture him but all does not go as planned. We soon learn, a huge lie was told to cover up the truth of how they mishandled the doctor. All this is told as past events, jump to the future and we learn a mental patient is claiming to be the nazi doctor, whom the world thinks is dead. So they must go and find out if it is really him and reveal the whole truth.FINAL VERDICT: It's pretty good, but a little slow in the beginning. But I did like the shocking throw oneself in front of bus scene.
An S is added onto the original movie's name because in this movie there are 2 different kinds of predators. We have the original one and then a new bigger version. Several men and one girl awaken to find themselves free falling in the sky with a parachute. They soon discover they were taken from earth and brought to an alien planet to be hunted. They all have something in common in that they are all dangerous people with most of them having a military background. Adrian Brody is the ring leader and seems to know all the right things to do. Toward the end, Lawerence Fishburne shows up but he's only on screen a very short time. He was wasted. The way he showed up so much more could have been done with his character. The whole movie wasn't written well and Brody had some pretty bad one liners.The predators don't really have any original kills. And there isn't a lot of blood. Even the alien dogs don't do much. The fight between the predator and guy with the sword was cool, but it should have lasted longer and had more action. And I don't buy at the end that one guy would turn against the other 2 considering they are being hunted.FINAL VERDICT: Weak script, I'd only watch it if you really in the mood for a monster movie.
Robin Williams plays a comic who runs for president. You think since Williams plays a comedian that this would be a comedy. Well it's not. It seems like it wants to be a comedy/satire in the beginning, but then turns into a semi-thriller, except it's not thrilling. Elanor Green who works for the company that designed the new voting computers discovers there is a glitch in the computer program and that gave Dobbs the votes to win. She tells her bosses and they drug her to make her seem crazy so no one will believe her. She befriends Dobbs and eventually tells him the truth. Along they way, people try to chase her and kill her. But it is painful to watch because it is so out of place since this movie was set up like a satire in the beginning. It's up to him to decide to disclose this info and forfeit the presidency.Overall, I just didn't care for the plot. This wasn't a good political "thriller" nor was it a satire. The director just couldn't decide what he wanted the film to be.FINAL VERDICT: Not very interesting. Story goes all over the place.
This movie was OK; it's a sequel to Valentine's Day. So you know it will have a lot of famous faces covering several stories that somehow all come together. But in this film, they don't all come together except that everyone celebrates New Year's in some fashion. My favorite story was the one with Josh Duhamel. He has car problems and gets a ride with a family in an RV and tells his story. He's going to meet a lady that he met a year ago and doesn't even know her name. And I like how the film fools you into thinking he's meeting one girl, when it's really another one.FINAL VERDICT: It's not great acting, but entertaining enough. I think it's worth a view.
I thought this movie was pretty good for a violent, revenge story. Better than most of the Rock's movies. Rock, plays Driver, a just released felon, but he only stays on the straight and narrow about 10 minutes. He's set on killing all the people involved in his brother's murder. And the kicker is: he got shot in the head too but survived. He's got a list of their names, and he tracks them down one by one. He just walks up to them and shoots them in the head. He's cold hearted and believable as a cold blooded killer.Billy Bob Thorton plays a druggy cop whose working on the case. Later, he's involved in the twist ending. Rock also has a pretty boy assassin out to kill him. For some reason pretty boy gets married. His girl doesn't have much to do except be eye candy. Plus he doesn't do as much cool stuff as the Rock.FINAL VERDICT: If you like revenge movies, check it out.
I don't know anything about the video game and whether or not the movie follows the game. What I do know is this movie was terrible and the story didn't make sense.A woman, Rose, takes her "weird" adopted daughter to Silent Hill, the name of the town the girl repeats while sleep walking. Some how the 2 along with a cop end up in some kind of alternate universe or maybe it was hell or somewhere in between. I don't know. It was never made clear. The husband goes to look for them and is in the same place the wife is but is in normal time. He can feel her presence but can't see her.The woman must battle the darkness and eventually a group of witch burners. The whole part about witches made little sense. What I think is maybe the woman and daughter are dead and are in a parallel universe before you get to hell. The witch burners are in hell paying for their sins. There is a girl Alessa who was killed by them and is out for revenge. She some how creates the darkness which is made of gross, evil creatures out to destroy. But I really have no idea if I'm right because it was not explained in the movie.The ending is weird. It's why I think the wife and daughter must be dead. They return home in the gray, ie. parallel world, and her husband is home, but they can't see each other.FINAL VERDICT: Just plain weird. Not scary and makes little sense.
This type of movie is so predictable and been done so many types. It's the typical friends decide to have sex but keep it platonic not romantic. But of course, they both end up having feelings and falling in love and deny it at first, but get together at the end. Kutcher and Portman give nothing new to their roles. As a matter of fact, I didn't really think they had much chemistry.FINAL VERDICT: I guess this was supposed to fall in the generic romantic comedy genre, even though it's not really funny. So, it's aimed at women on their couch eating bon bons. So unless you are one of those, you will probably want to avoid this.
I was expecting to laugh a lot since this movie got such good reviews in the theater, but I didn't laugh once. It was OK, but I didn't find it funny. The film is about 4 guys going to Vegas a couple of days before one of them, Doug, is about to get married. One of them, Alan, buys some drugs and puts it in their drinks. It turns out to be roophies, so the foursome don't remember what happened in the morning. They wake up and soon to be groom, Doug, is missing. So, the other 3 try to track down what they did the previous night. It involves a baby, stripper, tiger, Chinese dude looking for his money, and Mike Tyson. Finally, one of them guesses where Doug might be then they have to get back in time for the wedding.FINAL VERDICT: Some what entertaining, but I was disappointed. Still worth checking out since so many people thought it was better than me.
This movie was mildly amusing. I like the way Hugh Grant delivers his dry satirical lines. But he and Drew Barrymore do not belong together on screen. They had no chemistry. First, he is much older than her and British. They just don't make a cute couple, which is number one priority of a romantic comedy.Grant, playing 80s pop star, Alex Fider, makes the most of his character. It is funny when he sings these simple pop songs in his tight pants and all the middle age women go wild.I also liked Cora Corman, whom is a Britany Spears type of pop star, whom portrays her shows around Buddism and sticky and steamy dancing. Some of the lyrics to her songs were funny, ie toward the end when we here some of Slam and Entering Bootytown. And Cora's first performance of the song Alex and Sophie wrote for her was pretty outrageous.FINAL VERDICT: Liked the music but the casting was off. So, I say watch it if you like movies involving lots of music and singing; otherwise skip it.
action/ negotiate/ hostage type of movie with 2 big name stars. John Travolta plays the bad guy, Ryder, and Denzel Washington, Gruber, is monitoring the train tracks. Ryder and his gang take over a train car and hold passengers as ransom. They want 10 million dollars. But that is not really all they want. It's obvious they have another plan in motion in which to make a lot more money concerning the stock market. Most of the film is just Ryder making demands with Gruber and finally using Gruber to deliver the money, give directions, and drive the train. In a very boring, little action ending, Gruber saves the day.I thought all the cussing went overboard. It was just distracting and made me like it even less. And I don't think Travolta is very good in the bad guy role. He plays too many heroes in films.FINAL VERDICT: If you really like films involving hostages and negotiators then see it, but otherwise, there are better movies out there.
Scream 4 clearly tries to have its funny moments, which is mainly why I liked it. I also liked how it started. You are watching the first scenes of several of the "Stab" movies in a row. I thought that was a neat idea to open it that way.Anyways, celebrity Sidney Prescott returns to her hometown and with her return, Ghostface appears and begins killing again. The same sheriff and reporter, now married, are back. The movie centers around Sid's cousin, Jill, and her friends. And I just love how the killer just magically disappears all the time. Only in the movies. Eventually the true killer reveals theirselves, and gets a good shock.FINAL VERDICT: These movies are good for a laugh and cheap scare.
I thought this was one of the better scary movies I've seen in a while. I thought it was creepy because I could see something like this actually happening. A soon to be divorced couple are stranded when their car breaks down. They check into a semi-dump, the Pinewood Hotel. Once in the room, they hear banging coming from the room next door. David plays video tapes in the room that depict people being murdered. He puts two and two together and realizes the tapes are real and they are the next victims. From that point it is a lot of cat and mouse games. David and Amy find a secret tunnel out of the room and call 911, but of course the one policeman that comes is not too bright. They must survive the night and not become the next stars of a snuff film.There is no crazy twist at the end. For once, I'm glad when a bad guy gets shot 3 times, he stays down.I thought the whole tone of the film was creepy, dark, and suspenseful. It doesn't have a bunch of outlandish scenes, and that is what makes it seem more real.FINAL VERDICT: I thought it was good. Just don't watch it in a dark room alone.
John Cusack plays a sort of goofy hit-man. It starts out with him in Northern Canada. He walks into a bar, drinks a shot of hot sauce, and then kills a few guys with one shot. Then leaves on a plane talking to some mystery person giving him his next assignment. It seems whenever he's stressed, he drinks hot sauce. His next job is to be some sort of producer in charge of a wedding of a pop star. He's to kill Omar Sharif, I think the leader of the country. He meets a reporter, Marisa Tomei, that he gets the hots for. Meanwhile, Hillary Duff plays the pop tart who makes some plays for Cusack. Which later in the film comes off as gross when we find out who her daddy is.The main problem is this is a B level story and the plot doesn't make a lot of sense. It feels like a lot of scenes thrown together. Like the scorpion dance scene.FINAL VERDICT: Skip it.
in this action film with bits of comedy thrown in. It's a revamp of Die Hard with a lot of famous castmates. Willis plays Frank, retired CIA, whom finds himself on a hit list. He goes to save this girl, Sarah, whom he's befriended, then it's off to track down other retirees. He gets Morgan Freeman, John Malkovich, and Helen Mirran to solve the mystery. It has something to do with a mission in Guatamale from 1981. And they learn CIA is trying to kill them and it goes all the way to the top: the Vice President.This is a suspend reality type of movie. It's got some funny moments and was entertaining.FINAL VERDICT: If you are looking for a popcorn flick, then this is a good choice.
First of all, Adam Sandler is almost unrecognizable, I didn't even realize it was him until his character, Charlie, was shown a few times. He must have been wearing a really good wig. The problem I had with the film is not much happens. Alan sees Charlie riding around on his scooter. He knows that Charlie's family died on one of the 911 planes. And Charlie was his old college roommate. So, he begins talking to Charlie again, even though Charlie seems not to remember him. Charlie is depressed and Alan tries to get him to see a shrink. Alan has a family of his own and his wife is rather irritated with all the time he begins spending with Charlie. Plus, there is one of Alan's dental patients who has the hots for him and wants to give him a certain job. And that's basically the story. Not just much excitement.FINAL VERDICT: Only watch this if you don't mind slow moving dramas with little action.
you'll like this one. The movie has the same concept as the first 2. Nothing new as far as plot. There is plenty of gore in some very unique deaths. It's fun. And it looks quite painful. Who would want to burn alive in a tanning bed! The first 20 minutes were amazing with the roller coaster sequence. Parts looked very fake, but other parts had good special effects. I wouldn't want to see someones lower half on the seat next to me.You would think if they figured out how they would die from the pictures, then they would just stay in their room and not go anywhere, but that would make too much sense.FINAL VERDICT: This is for all gore fans. It's short and worth watching.
This movie was OK. It relies on CGI effects to make the film rather than actually story which is why it gets only so-so reviews. You know who will live and who will die from the start. There are 2 main heroes, the heroic firefighter/mayor Robert and the young cute Dylan who has the idea to find a way to the outside rather than stay in the ballroom. They are joined by a worker and a mother and son. First they luckily find Robert's daughter, her boyfriend and another girl. They appear to be the only 3 people who survived at the disco along with the annoying Lucky Larry. Who continues to make crassless jokes about the situation as they walk over dead people. Of course, he gets the ending he deserves.The film is kept short and the action is suspenseful in the last third of the film. The whole story has been done so many times. Like the dad giving up his life in the end to save everyone. Can anyone say Bruce Willis in Amagedanon. And the whole sinking of the ship is like Titanic.Evan through it was all CGI and no where near as realistic as Titanic, the wave hitting the ship and it rolling over and the chaos it creates was cool.FINAL VERDICT: If you like action films, then I recommend it.
that was what I got out of this movie because the old people come out on top. Mac and Kelly are your average couple with a baby living the dream. Then something "awful" happens, a fraternity moves in next door. Now since this is just a regular neighborhood, I find it hard to believe that a frat could just set up shop there. Anyways, Mac and Kelly try to make good with hottie president, Teddy. But the noise gets to be too much so they start complaining. What isn't believable is that none of the other neighbors seem to be bothered by the loud parties.Anyways, Mac and Kelly come up with schemes to try to get the frat to move but of the course the frat strikes back when they learn what they are doing. And I thought it was rather funny, like the hidden air bags, the baby at the ER, batman discussion.FINAL VERDICT: If you want to see a raunchy comedy, then I think this would be a decent choice.
I thought this was a good, well written film. It was much better than zero dark thirty, another political movie that came the same year. I knew nothing of the story behind this movie before seeing the film. I'm sure not all of it was 100 percent correct. I wonder when this happened, did the police really chase down the Swiss plane right before take off. I don't know, but it certainly made it entertaining for the movie.What I really liked was it was well written and acted and not drawn out and the scenes in the movie just went together. I think it deserved the best picture Oscar last year. I haven't seen a better film from last year.FINAL VERDICT: Definitely check it out.
should be the concept of the Weatherman's (David Spritz) life. His life is a gloomy forecast. His kids, ex-wife, and award winning father have a generally dislike for him. He has people treating him like trash in the street because they see him as phony or a joke on TV. Spritz gets food and drinks thrown on him several times. He tries to spend more time with his daughter by coming up with activities like archery, but his daughter doesn't like to follow through. She is unhappy because her parents are divorced and she is overweight and gets laughed at in school.David gets a job offer for the network morning show. At first, he just ignores the calls because he seems depressed. It is a bigger paycheck and what he has worked for in TV since being a weather forecaster, but returning a call is too difficult of chore for him. Does David get his dream job and become a better parent toward his kids? Those questions are answered at the end. But, for me, this movie was a little on the long side and some boring parts. Plus, it's plain depressing.FINAL VERDICT: It's not a comedy as one might think. It's OK, but not good enough for me to recommend. It needs to be more entertaining.
who know little about the battle for Iwo Jima. It is almost like 2 separate movies in one. You have one part centered around the men who rose the flag and their life in the US afterwards. They are celebrated as heroes. The other part shows flashbacks of the fighting in the Pacific. I like war movies, so I liked those parts best. The war scenes were realistic and well filmed.The acting was pretty good, but this is not Clint Eastwood's best film. I have liked other war films better but this one is entertaining enough to watch.FINAL VERDICT: If you like war movies, then don't miss this.
I don't care for car racing and know nothing about Formula 1, but I thought this movie was OK. There were lots of race scenes and they were shot well. It gave the feeling of seeing these cars race at hundreds of miles per hour plus you got a feel of what it was like from the driver point of view.So the film is about a rivalry between 2 guys that first met at Formula 3 races. Then they move up to the big time, and are in a heated battle for the most points. Lauda is the more serious and trying to get points taken away for breaking rules. Hunt is the party boy whom is competitive and more lax. During the racing season, Lauda gets hurt and brings drama as this lets Hunt get back in the race for point leader. Lauda has already one the top spot before, so Hunt has real drive and risks his life to win.There is also a little about each drivers' wife and how their personal relationships functioned.FINAL VERDICT: The acting isn't too great, but the racing scenes are. Plus Chris Hemsworth is very good looking in this. So if you like fast cars, check it out.
Guy Ritchie or Quinton Tarentino films, just not as good. I felt like I had seen this movie before because the set up of characters is just like other movies by Richie or Tarentino. The film has a lot of characters and gives them dialoge to set up their character. A lot of the conversations are humorous. From the 2 female killers to the trio of crazies. The main plot is Buddy Isreal whom is involved with the mob is hiding out in a penthouse of a hotel. He has a lot of people who want him dead and cops who want him to testify. The cops have to wait till a deal is reached before bringing him in. A lot of funny characters get involved whom are hit-man and come up with different ways to get to Isreal.And there is a big twist at the end with Isreal, Primo, and the Suede. My main complaint is we have seen this type of movie before and the writer/director is just not as original as Tarentino.FINAL VERDICT: Pretty good and entertaining. If you like Tarentino, give this a chance.
that doesn't mean it's horrible. I actually thought it was OK. Sure all the jokes don't work (Tony Cox playing a mini Indy Jones as the most obvious), still I thought some of them were funny. This movie is not as bad as some of the reviews make it out to be. The writers tried to include as many films as possible to make fun of. I thought the whole high school musical scene with that ridiculous song was funny. Alvin and the Chipmonks skit was very silly, but I have to admit it made me laugh. The Calvin Klein underwear model was funny, as well as the short bit about Hancock. I also like Juney, that was spot on.FINAL VERDICT: This movie is not supposed to be award worthy. It is what it is, and I think you should get a few laughs from it. It's short and I recommend it.
if you have a good script and good acting, a movie can still be interesting and worth while. This is such the case with this serious drama. A woman, Audrey, loses her husband. He was best friends with Jerry, who is now a drug addict trying to clean up. She didn't really care for him, but after her husband's death, she invites him to live with her and the kids to try to help him out. The 2 become closer and Jerry tries to help the kids cope. Jerry has set backs himself.The acting was good, especially Del Toro. It was an interesting story of several people fighting grief and addiction.FINAL VERDICT: If you like dramas, then you should check this out.
This movie looked like it coped exact ideas from several different sci-fi films. For one, they use these chambers to sleep during space travel. How many movies have used that? Also, they use these pods to eject from the space ship. Also, after awaking from the deep sleep, these guys realize something else is on board the ship; something alien like and sinister. Geez, what an original idea. Not! The "monsters" are never fully explained, but what I think is they were human and injected with something and in some people it mutated. Anyways, the two main guys find a few people who awoke earlier and have been surviving among the "monsters". Can anyone say that sounds just like Aliens.BTW: The title comes from what they called madness resulting from space travel. Pandorum means the person is loosing mental stability and is irrational, turning crazy.FINAL VERDICT: Watch Aliens, it's better.
but kids will love this. The concept behind this movie is every kids' dream: to be able to make up a fairy tale and have it come true. In the movie, Sandler plays, Skeeter, a hotel worker that is asked to look after his sister's kids for a week. His father was promised by the hotel owner, Mr. Nottingham, to give Skeeter a chance to run the hotel one day. Skeeter tells the kids varies bedtime stories and they come true the next day. So, of course, he uses the stories to try to win the job at the hotel.I thought it was sort of amusing, but I think this film is more for kids.FINAL VERDICT: Perfect for 12 year olds, but I think a lot of adults wouldn't care for it.
The only complaint I have with this film is they try to make the story serious yet have the most ridiculous stunts. Frank gets to be the ultimate bad *ss, more so than Bruce Willis in Die Hard. He propels his car in the air to knock of a bomb just in time. He rides a jet ski onto the street to catch a bus. He gets shot at with a machine gun by a hot chick in her undies yet is never hit by a bullet. Amazingly a thin wooden door even stops all the bullets. He jumps like a cat and even jumps in mid-air to miss a collision between 2 cars. But even sillier is when he some how (it's not shown) gets from his car to inside a plane. Frank and the bad guy fight as the plane crashes under water. He simply opens a door underwater- forget about water pressure and gets himself and the bad guy out of a sinking plane. All this while he's supposedly dying from haven been exposed to the virus from the boy. Others are affected but not Frank. And he's even so noble as to not sleep with the wife when she throws herself at him.FINAL VERDICT: It's so silly. It's funny. i have to say it was entertaining in an absurd kind of way.
I liked the action scenes in this movie, but quite a few of them were still just absurd. Angelina Jolie plays a CIA agent whom was secretly trained as a child to be a Russian spy. She is living in America waiting for the green light. First, why would Russia want to start a war with America in today's world. Simple, they wouldn't. This plot is more for the times during the Cold War decades ago. But overlook this, and then you have a petite Jolie, playing Salt, whom jumps off semis and lands on vans and hangs own and is able to over power about 4 guys in a police car and kick them out the car and use a stun gun to control the driver, and she is able to get up and walk out of a totaled car after going over a bridge. Not to mention her alone is about to get by security to get in the church during the funeral. It just starts to get silly and why at the end in the room under ground would all the glass be bulletproof yet the walls are not surrounded by steel. Instead Salt is able to blast her way through the sheet rock to get to the control panel. Don't buy that.FINAL VERDICT: Jolie is good but is given some silly things to do. It still was exciting and I recommend it.
and it really isn't his style of movie. This was a quirky drama that had some good parts but I wouldn't call it a good movie. Stiller plays just released mental patient, Roger, whom goes from New York to LA to house sit for his brother. He starts an affair with his brother's assistant, Florence. She's lonely and weird, just like Roger, so they don't really date. They just call each other and hang out. Roger tries to be buddies with his old friend, Ivan, whom now has a family. At the end they kind of have a blowup, not what I would call real exciting for a film.Then there is the side plot of the family dog with an autoimmune disorder. I think that was just filler. But the main plot of the film is Roger and Florence and how they act like they like each other sometimes and don't want to be around each other at other times.FINAL VERDICT: The plot really isn't entertaining enough to recommend.
I thought this movie was OK and entertaining. It is based on the well known fairy tale of Jack and the beanstalk. In the movie, Jack is given magic beans and one accidentally gets wet and grows. The princess is in the house and gets taken by the bean stalk into the sky that ends in giant land. So the king gets some of his men plus Jack to climb the bean stalk. Of course, one of the guys has other motives and has this magic crown. But he gets what's coming to him and it leads to the giants invading the kingdom. Then the ending is how they conquer the giants.The best part of the movie is the special effects. The giants look realistic and are so detailed.FINAL VERDICT: If you like action movies, I think the special effects alone are worth checking out. So I recommend it.
in late 1800s London is the center of this movie. It basically is a film about the invention of the vibrator. I don't know how much of it is true, but it was comical when all these old ladies go in for treatment for their hysteria. The story is about Dr. Granville whom joins the practice of Dr. Dalrymple in the treatment of hysteria. It seems half the female population is affected with it. So Granville sits in a session where we see the Dalrymple put a curtain over a woman's lower regions, oil up his hands, and stimulate. And to amazement, the women are very pleased with this. So Granville makes money, gets to help people and is intrigued by both Dalrmple's daughters, especially the independent one, Charolette. Granville has so many patients, his hand starts to hurt and he teams up with a doctor friend and they come up with a machine to stimulate. It starts out as a feather duster, then becomes more refined.FINAL VERDICT: This was in interesting film and was funny sometimes. Worth checking out.
This movie was OK, but there were some things about the plot that just didn't add up. A Chinese woman has finally got enough money to bring her illegal kid to New York. For some reason she has to give her money to this guy for a ticket, that is worth the value of the money and take the ticket to someone in China town. Why couldn't she just deliver the money? Or take the ticket herself? Instead she hires a bike messenger, Wilee, one of the best riders. A policeman that is in gambling debt learns of the ticket and wants to get it from Wilee. So he chases him all over town but can't stop a bike while in a car. Wilee gets help from other riders and shows some neat tricks on a bike. Why he just doesn't get on a bus or take a car, I don't know?FINAL VERDICT: OK, a different kind of chase movie even if the hero isn't too bright. Worth a viewing if nothing else is on.
I didn't get while watching the movie, but after reading some of the comments here, it makes more sense. While watching the movie, what I didn't get was how did that girl watching the video camera all of a sudden know who the killers was, but it has been explained in these comments. I plan to go back to watch it a second time to see all the "clues" I may have missed.But the general plot of the film is a couple, Cliff and Cydney, are on their honeymoon in Hawaii. They begin a 11 mile hike to a beach. Along the way, they run into some girls that tell them about a couple murdered on another island. There are 2 other couples around besides Cliff and Cydney. One couple they are very suspicious of, and the other one, Nick and Gina, they decide aren't so bad so continue the hike with them.It's sort of slow in the beginning, but gets better once you get to the goat killing.FINAL VERDICT: Don't read any spoilers before watching. I thought it was entertaining.
just too ridiculous and the ending is just unbelievable. This movie was OK but not as good as the first one because it's just too out there to believe that this happened to the same guy twice. Any ways, kick #ss special forces dude, Bryan Mills, is off to Turkey for work and invites his ex wife and daughter along. They decide to go even though it has been just a short time since the daughter, Kim, was kidnapped and almost sold as a sex slave. Well, the relatives of the men that Bryan killed from the first film are back and want to make Bryan pay.So we get a kidnapping and super cool way of Bryan figuring out where he is and getting daughter Kim to rescue him. That was super agent stuff. What's really unbelievable is once they get to the US embassy, Bryan doesn't use their help, he just goes out again on his own. I just don't buy that.FINAL VERDICT: If you want to see an older guy beat the you know what out of the bad guys, then this is for you.
I thought it was very mediocre approaching boring. Nothing exciting or funny or entertaining even happens. And I certainly didn't think any actor deserved an acting nomination in this. Owen Wilson plays Gil, a writer trying to write his first novel. He's in Paris with his finance and her family and they are seeing the sights. One night at midnight, he gets into this car and some how ends up in the 1920s; this part is never explained. So, he meets some of his favorite writers and artists, like Fitsgerald, Hemmingway, and Picasso. He also meets Picasso's girl,that he likes and this makes him see, he shouldn't marry his finance.And all this magic makes him want to movie to Paris, and he meets a new Parisan girl. The end.FINAL VERDICT: I didn't find much good about this, I don't recommend it.
I was expecting a lot since it got a lot of Oscar nominations, and after watching it, I'm very disappointed. I like westerns, but not this one. It doesn't hold a candle to a movie like Unforgiven.The worst part of the film was the dialog. It sounded like it was from some 18th English Victorian era. I mean, the way these people talked was so annoying. And then all Jeff Bridges does is mumble through his part. And when they meet Tom Chaney, what a let down. We are expecting some sinister criminal, and he hardly seems like a bad guy. And since when are the bad guys so polite. What terrible criminals.FINAL VERDICT: Avoid at all costs. I have to label this movie as terrible.
I thought this movie was boring and not funny. It's just like the first one except less original ideas with few to none laughs. At least the first one was some what entertaining.The simple plot is most of the museum characters are being moved to the Smithsonian. Larry is not a night watchman anymore and is spending less and less time at the museum. The magic tablet was supposed to stay at the museum in New York, but I think it was the monkey took it to the Smithsonian. Jed calls Larry(how does a 2 inch cowboy make a call????) and tells him the tablet has awoken an evil Egyptian Pharaoh. So the rest of the film is Larry trying to take back the tablet while keeping his friends safe. He also meets up with Amelia Earhart whom is his tag along.FINAL VERDICT: I didn't care for it but I think kids would like it.
but still I don't buy you can tell a love story by showing what happens on one day, July 15, of every year. The film follows Emma and Dexter over a span of 20 plus years. They meet after graduating and go back to Emma's, but nothing romantic happens. They decide to keep in touch and be friends. Well, they turn out to be best friends even though their lives keep them apart. Emma becomes a waitress while trying to be a writer, and Dexter travels the world and eventually gets into the entertainment business.They each have loves and difficult times, but stay in touch and see each other when they can. Finally everything in their lives fall into place and they are ready to be together, but the story has a sad ending.FINAL VERDICT: It's meant to be tear jerker at the end. It was a neat idea, but I think too hard to pull off. I recommend for those that love romance stories.
This movie was pretty good and Paul Giamatti delivers a great acting performance. We follow his life through 3 marriages up to the end. In the beginning, he is living a care free lifestyle in Rome with friends and marries a woman who's pregnant with his baby or was it his! That doesn't last long. Next we see Barney back in Canada where he is starting work as some kind of TV producer. He meets a pretty lady from a wealthy family and he thinks she is OK. His dad approves since she's rich. So they get married but at his own wedding, Barney meets the girl of his dreams, Miriam. He is already wanting to divorce after being married 5 minutes. He is bored with wife 2 and she knows it. Then he walks in on her and his best friend, Boogie, getting busy but isn't too upset since this gives him an excuse to divorce. During this, Boogie disappears and at the end of the film, they give a hint as to what really happened to him. Watch for the beach ball.Now Barney is married to Miriam and they have kids and a happy life for a while but soon his crankiness wears on her and she soon likes another guy with similar interests. She leaves Barney for her friend, and he can't except it. The last little part shows Barney's path into dementia. It's a sad end.FINAL VERDICT: Good, different story with a great, lead actor, check it out.
This is a movie about vengeance that turns silly in the end. Kevin Bacon plays Nick Hume, a regular family man. One night he stops at a gas station in a bad neighborhood and some guys kill his son as part of a gang ignitation. One of the attackers is hit by a car so he is caught by the police. After learning the guy will only get several years in prison, Nick decides not to identify him in a line up. That night he gets revenge and knifes the guy himself. This starts a gang war. Now is when it starts to get silly. The gang have a gun battle trying to shoot Nick on a busy street during the day and the police never show up. Instead of running into one of the crowded buildings, Nick runs throw alleys, not knowing if he will run into a dead end. He gets away, but another gang member dies and they get Nick's briefcase, so they know where he lives. They deliver a threat to Nick at work. Instead of getting his family on the next flight out of town, he stays in his house with a baseball bat, not even a gun. That makes little sense. So, the gang comes shoots his family. He and his other son live.Next part is when Nick turns Rambo. He buys all these guns, shaves his head and dresses like a banger. This time he really means revenge and there is quite a bit of violence. This part is just over the top. It's like Kevin Bacon turns into Sly Stallone, Bruce Willis, Arnold Swattsneger, etc.... The movie goes from drama to ridiculous action film. It should have stayed more realistic.FINAL VERDICT: If you like action films, then you'll probably like this.
This movie really didn't have a plot. It was just a satire of gangsters, namely following Chili, as he gets into the music business. It's supposed to be funny, but there weren't many laughs. It wasn't even very entertaining.They must have done some air brushing on Uma Thurman in this because her face looked a lot younger than usual. I'm sure they did the same for Travolta. There are quite a few cameos; they are pointless. The Rock plays this silly gay bodyguard whose more of a chump.FINAL VERDICT: There was not a reason to make this sequel. Nothing much happened and you just don't care.
was Barnabas good or bad? That is what I was trying to figure out after watching this. On one hand, he is supposed to be the protagonist who is going up against evil and on the other hand he is killing construction workers and spaced out campers.Barnabas is a vampire that is released after being underground for 200 years. So there is a lot of campy jokes about how things have changed, from roads to cars to parties. He finds that some relatives are now living in his house and he conveniently has a room filled with hidden treasure, so that takes care of money issues. The witch that buried him is still running the town and she is still obsessed about him. Also, Barnabas's love has been resurrected in Victoria, a girl living with the family. So the film is about Barnabas trying to get rid of the with, Angie. And as it turns out half the family have some sort of supernatural powers.FINAL VERDICT: Seemed like this was thrown together to take advantage of the popularity of vampires. It's not a comedy, but it's not to be taken serious. Don't go out of your way to see it.
according to this movie. You just have to be smart and it all falls into place. Russell Crowe, plays John, a teacher whose wife, Lara, is convicted of murder. He knows she is innocent and they have exhausted all appeals. He hatches a plan to break her out of jail. The movie is more realistic than most as to how one escapes. John goes through a lot, including beatings, to get fake passports. He learns the routine of the delivery man and even about bump keys, which almost gets him caught. He comes up with a smart plan to get the cops to move his wife and then he does the rest. He is also able to take their son with them, which was a close call because the plan deviates from what he expected.FINAL VERDICT: It is very slow in the beginning and about 20 to 30 minutes could have been edited out. But it's good at the end, I recommend it.
I thought this Superman movie had a good story behind it even though it left out the humor that Christopher Reeves films had. It begins on Krypton and we see how Kal came to be and what his parents did to get him to Earth. And we learn about bad guy General Zod, whom was sentenced to being frozen but turned out to be good for him since he survived the planet explosion. They track Kal to Earth where he is Clark Kent and in this story not a reporter but a drifter, trying to hide his abilities but has a need to save people. He befriends Lois Lane and meets Zod, then they battle it out on earth. I thought the special effects were good with throwing each other through things and bringing down planes.FINAL VERDICT: It was just an entertaining 2 hours plus movie. Worth checking out.
talk about hurting someone's feelings. I thought this was a pretty good film and I'm surprised at some of the negative reviews on here. I think Ricky Gervais is a comic genius, he's better at writing than acting. In this, he plays Mark, the first man to tell a lie. Once Mark learns to lie, no one else can get the concept. They just take anything he says at face value. Like he says he's black and his friends were like, "yeah, I can see that". He's dating the pretty Anna whom likes his personality but can't get beyond that their children would be fat and have snubby noses. So, Mark uses lies to get rich and become successful by writing fiction movie scripts, but he can't bring himself to use lies to get Anna.Mark's mom dies and he tells her she's going to a wonderful place with mansions and the ones she loved. So, everyone thinks Mark knows things about death and demand he tell the world. So Mark makes a list of rules about death and the "man in the sky". The whole film is just filled with satire and amusing moments.FINAL VERDICT: I thought it was better than a lot of these other reviews. I found the story unique and amusing.
The kid from 3rd Rock plays Chris Pratt, a high school kid who causes a car accident that kills some friends and leaves him with short term memory loss. He works at night in a bank as a janitor. He meets a hot girl and her friends, but they are not really his friends. They want to use Chris to gain access to the bank to rob it. At first Chris agrees, but everything goes wrong at the bank and he realizes he shouldn't be doing this. The money is stolen but Chris takes them to the hidden money bags, and takes charge of the situation so to speak. He saves himself and his blind roommate's life.This movie was fair; but there was just nothing to really capture your attention the whole time.FINAl VERDICT: OK, story, but nothing unique. I wouldn't rush out to rent it.
This movie was a let down, it should have been more suspenseful. The setup sounds good, a wanted fugitive is living under a new identity and is discovered and now on the run. How will he clear his name? First, Sloan's identity is uncovered in the first 20 minutes of the movie by a reporter, Ben. Then he is on the run, dropping his daughter off with his brother and then he meets up with ex members of the weather activist, whom help him. He's also being chased by the FBI, but they don't really do anything. Sloan doesn't really do much besides drive to different states. And the twist ending has to do with a secret child. That part didn't make much sense.FINAL VERDICT: The movie needed more excitement and drama. skip it.
I didn't know anything about this story before watching the movie. I thought it was good. All of the songs weren't great, but they were good and told the story. Everyone sings in this, there is very little talking, all the story is told in song. The only negative thing I could say is the story is so depressing. People do not get happy endings in this movie.I thought Russell Crowe was excellent and probably didn't win awards since he has won them in previous films. Sacha Baron Cohen and Helena Bonham Carter had the best roles. They were the comedic relief and very funny. They just had great characters. And I didn't think Anne Hathaway deserved the Oscar. She was OK, but only in a very small role as her character was only in the very beginning. I just didn't think the role was strong enough to win awards.FINAL VERDICT: If you like musicals, it's a must see. If you want a decent story, then this is a good choice too.
I thought this movie was misleading. I was expecting a comedy since Ben Stiller is the star, but I didn't feel like it was a comedy. It really wasn't funny and wasn't trying to be. I like heist movies, but this one didn't really have a fancy scheme with a bunch of cons.The way they steal really wasn't that hard to guess.Alan Alda's character could have been a little meaner, then the audience would have sympathized with the thieves more. The FBI agent should have helped them out more. Odessa should have been given more to do.Final Verdict: Not a great film, skip it.
I did not care for this movie. The first time I saw this movie was on an airplane and I hated it. But since it was on HBO, I watched it again thinking it would be better since I could hear it more clearly. Well, it wasn't. Here's a note to Hollywood: movies about corporate spying are very boring. Plus this movie jumps back and forth between current time and past events just causing it to make even less sense. And I get at the end the 2 spys got double crossed, but I still don't see why. I mean was there really a cure for baldness or was that all a scam? And Julia Roberts doesn't come across as her charming self in this role. She hasn't picked good scripts since Erin Brochovich.FINAL VERDICT: Avoid at all costs
I remember when this movie was in theaters and it was getting a lot of bad reviews. I just figured it was another role in which Tom Cruise is totally unbelievable. And the story would be hard to follow. Well, Cruise was OK, and the story was easy to follow. It is about a group of Germans that want to assassinate Hitler and take over Germany to sign a truce with the Allies. They don't want to see Europe destroyed.Cruise plays Colonel Claus von Stauffenberg whom is leading the attempt on Hitler's life. He's got a lot of convincing to do in order to get other officers to go with the plan because they know if it fails, it will be considered treason. Even when the plan seems to go as planned, the other accomplices are still hesitant to go forward with the plan.FINAL VERDICT: It's a little too long but I thought it was easy enough to follow. If you find World War II interesting, I'd recommend it.
humor check... now you have all the ingredients for a B action movie by Robert Rodrigues. This movie was OK and certainly not to be taken seriously. It tries to more funny than anything else. Heads are taken off like a balloon popping. Blood sprays everywhere. Lindsay Lohen turns into a deadly gun welding nun after getting naked. Robert De Niro is a senator that shoots illegals for fun; as if any senator would ever do that.The plot is the senator's adviser, Booth, hires Machete to kill the senator, but it is a setup. He just wants it to look like a Mexican was trying to kill the senator in order to get more people to agree with the issue of getting illegals out of Texas. So Machete is out to get him back, the senator, and the drug lord that killed his wife. A very hot Jessica Alba and Michelle Rodrigues are thrown in to help the cause.FINAL VERDICT: I like cheesy movies like this so I say check it out.
This was a very entertaining movie and one of the better Bond films. I liked how in this version there aren't a lot of ridiculous Bond killing villain scenes. They are more realistic and the villain isn't some crazy scientist wanting to rule the world. Craig is great as bond. He's hot and sold the character well. Bond goes to the Bahamas and tracks a man supplying funds to terrorists to a very high stakes poker tournament in Europe. Eva Green is the hot bond girl and does OK. She looked a little too young for Craig in my opinion. There's even a surprise twist at the end.And the torture scene, one word "Yikes!" FINAL VERDICT: One of the better films of the year. Entertaining and worth seeing.
Richard Gere, plays Clifford Irving, a writer whose latest book is trashed. He needs to come up with another idea to sell. His idea is to write an authorized biography of billionaire Howard Hughes. He sells it by telling the higher ups that the book will be authorized by Hughes himself and that he will get exclusive interviews and insight. Only problem is Irving has never even met Hughes. He along with a partner and his wife help him cash Hughes check and come up with inside knowledge. He meets one of Hughes friends and copies a manuscript that guy had written about Hughes. He says Hughes will only communicate through letters. Irving's lie eventually gets revealed.Based on the plot, you can tell there isn't a lot of action or drama. It's OK for what it is.FINAL VERDICT: I'm sure plenty will find this movie too boring. It was a little long, but the plot did make sense and it wasn't confusing. Fans of Gere should like this.
The lead character in this, Major Eden Sinclair, reminded me of the female version of Bruce Willis in films like Die Hard. She is the ultimate butt kicker, wins against impossible situations, and finds time to through a cheesy one liner in here and there. Sinclair is hired to lead a group of soldiers into quarantined Scotland. It is the future and a virus has wiped out Scotland. England has built a barrier around Scotland to contain the virus. It is now years later and the virus has shown up in London. The prime minister believes a cure can be found in Scotland because they have visual evidence that there were survivors.It turns out the survivors have decided to become punk rockers and tortures and want to kill the invading soldiers. No one seems willing to help out. Some of them are killed and a few of them including Sinclair are captured. Now it is time for superwoman to show up as she escapes, befriends the daughter of the scientist she is hunting, and basically survives to meet the rescue helicopter.There is also a scene straight from Gladiator. Sinclair battles this armored giant and it's just like what Russell Crowe did.There is a lot of violence and blood in this. A couple of scenes stand out. One is when Sinclair beheads the girlfriend of Sol, it's pretty gross. But one of the most disturbing scenes in a film that isn't x rated was in this. It was sick. A guy is burned alive and the movie shows this. Then it shows his charred body and they start cutting parts of the meat off to eat. Disgusting. That really shouldn't be in a film like this.FINAL VERDICT: If you like gore, you'll like this. However, a couple of scenes are a bit too much.
The best part of this movie was Richard Jennings, playing John's autistic dad. He was the best actor in this and gave emotion to the film. Channing Tatum and Amanda Seyfried are not that good of actors and the chemistry was not there. I just don't call a movie with the actors reading letters out lead as being that much of a love story. The best parts were the dad telling Savannah about his coin collection. And after what Savannah did to John with just breaking up with him like that, I don't think John would ever get back with her. It just portrayed her as being cruel and insensitive. Also, in a small town like that, how could she not know that John's father had died.FINAL VERDICT: Just not that well written nor acted. The Notebook was much better. I don't recommend this one.
This movie should have been longer. It just kind of ends with not much of a resolution. It's about a late night radio host who gets a copy of a book written by an abused 14 year old boy. The boy is a fan of his and starts calling him at home. He also talks to the boy's guardian who keeps the boy hidden since his mother skipped bail. Gabe's friend hears a message left from the boy and his guardian and remarks that is sounds like the same voice. Gabe starts asking questions of his friend who gave him the book. He has never met the boy either. Curisostity gets the better of him and Gabe flies to Wisconsin to find the boy. He finds the guardian, Donna, who is blind but always has an answer as to why he can not meet the boy, Pete. Gabe begins a short investigation into the where abouts of Pete. He finally gets the answer he was looking for and returns home. Later, we see Donna and find out how mental disturbed she really is.The plot does sound good, but the movie really isn't. It develops really slow and just isn't entertaining. This is not a thriller. And the conclusion is just bad; it didn't feel like a real ending.FINAL VERDICT: Not worth watching.
is how I would describe this movie. I thought it was going to be a comedy since Rainn Wilson is the lead, but it's more violent than anything else. Wilson plays fry cook, Frank, whom acts seriously weird after his wife, Sarah, leaves him for a common criminal, Jacques. He has a vision and becomes the Crimson Bolt. He wants to do good by fighting crime, problem is he starts attacking people that haven't done much wrong, such as the guy who breaks line. I don't think he deserved to be beat in the head by a wrench.Comic seller, Libby, catches on to Franks super hero and wants to be his side kick. She's demented. She practically wants to kill a guy for scratching up a friend's car. She's a little too excited about hurting people. Then there is a very uncomfortable scene in which she rapes Frank.And at the end, when Frank and Libby attack Jacques compound, there is very gory, almost silly violence. It's made to look like what you might see in a comic. Not for kids.FINAL VERDICT: This movie was different with weird characters. As long as you know,it's not a comedy, it is worth checking out.
