And its lines like that that makes The Last Airbender unintentionally funny to British audiences: I admit it's juvenile because bender is a schoolboy way to describe someone who is gay but you will take anything you can get with a film like this.Based on a popular animated series, The Last Airbender is the most expensive film made so far by Nickelodeon Movies. This film attempts to put 22 episodes into one film and it ended up annoying fans a lot.The Last Airbender is set in a fantasy where some people are able to control the elements, Earth, Water, Fire and Air. One person at one time is called the Avatar and he is able to control all the elements makes sure there is peace and balance in the world. He is reincarnated every time. But the Avatar has been missing for 100 years and during his time of absence the Fire Nation has risen. In the Southern Water Tribe Katara (Nicola Peltz) and Sokka (Jackson Rathbone) found the Avatar, Aang (Noah Ringer) in a Ice Bubble and free him. On the way the three youngsters team up, knowing Aang is the only person who could stop the Fire Nation and on the way to find the great Waterbender masters start a rebellion. But Aang is also being chased by a exiled prince, Zuko (Dev Patel) who wants to capture him to regain his honour and a sadistic Fire Nation commander, Admiral Zhao (Aasif Mandvi).The Last Airbender was the bigger winner/loser at the Razzies in 2011 and it was deserves despite some stiff company. For some weird reason Paramount allowed M. Night Shyamalan to write, direct and produce this film, despite making two flops in a row and give him a $150 Million budget to play with. Why they did this I do not know, I assume that the producer still thought Shyamalan was the wonderkid who made The Sixth Sense or simply Shyamlan has amazing abilities to talk people into doing anything. I hope studios realise that Shyamlan needs to go back to basics, do lower budget films and make sure he does not have control over production or the script. The dialogue is awful and much of the film is rushed, for the obvious reason that Shyamlan is trying to condense a long show into 90 minutes. Added to that is some of the most wooden acting in a fantasy film: Ringer was only cast because he knew tae-kwon-do, but he could not actor at all, compare him to someone like Chloe Moretz and Saoirse Ronan who are professional child actors and learned how to do action scenes. Shyamlan said he cast Peltz because she gave the best audition by a child actor since Haley Joel Osment: standards must be slipping because she was terrible throughout. She has a pretty face but that is no substitute for acting ability and she had no chemistry whatsoever with any of the characters. Rathbone too has similar problems, a wooden delivery and a lack of a connection with the other characters. Even Patel was struggling and he was coming off the back of a Slumdog Millionaire: he was just trying to be as intense as possible. He has admitted that he thought the script was weak but Shyamlan talked him into taking the role and his only options was comic sidekick in Hollywood films. I'm surprise he could kept a straight face whilst filming. Mandvi was the best performer because his character was a real dick, making snay comments at every opportunity.Shyamalan can not direct an action scene: I have often complain about films using shaky cam and over-cutting, but Shyamalan has the opposite problem, he does not when to cut and going for long shots with no focus at all. If you want to see good steady-cam shots, look at Children of Men or Warrior King. The fight choreography is terrible, Shyamalan claims he always wanted to make a material arts film, but he obviously did not see what makes a good material arts film. Added to that when characters are bending they have to do stupid dance moves; I can understand that a blocking motion would lead to Earth coming up from the ground, but how does a dance act make the elements move? Why not look at something like Magneto from X-Men who moves metal by simple movements. The other problem of the action scenes is most of the time they are too dark to see and makes it hard to follow what's going on.There are some pluses on the technical side of things, James Newton Howard provides an excellent score, the art-direction and costumes are well done and some of the special effects were okay. Also the character of Uncle Iroh (Shaun Toub) is complex because is a good commander, a caring uncle and father-figure, a loyal general but has a scene of honour, I am sure he was sure he was developed more in the cartoon.I have not seen the cartoon, but I am sure it is a deeper, more complex series and what I read I have only heard good things. I did catch the end of an episode once and I thought it had a good, fast flowing animation style. And I can understand fans' fury about changing the characters races, it something that should never be done unless there is a real good artist reason.
Hopes were not high coming into Spy Kids: All the Time in the World. It is the fourth film in a franchise suffering from diminishing returns, plus it was using the stupid idea of smell-o-vision. And this family film does not disappoint.Marissa Wilson (Jessica Alba) is a top OSS spy who retires after capturing a super villain, Tik Tok, and starts a family with her husband Wilbur (Joel McHale) and stepchildren Rebecca (Rowan Blanchard) and Cecil (Mason Cook). A year later a new villain has emerged, the Time Keeper, who speeds up time using the Armageddon Device to punish humanity for wasting time. Marissa is called back by the OSS director, Danger D'Amo (Jeremy Piven), to recapture Tik Tok which should lead them to the Time Keeper. But the Time Keeper sets out to kidnap Rebecca and Cecil because Rebecca has the only thing that could stop the Armageddon Device.There are many problems with Spy Kids: All the Time in the World. It's a cheap and unimaginative film where you could easily predict how they would play out. We have seen these story elements so many times before: the dad is a workaholic; there is animosity between step-mum and step-daughter as the step-mum tries to get closer to the children; the revelation of a lie, and so many others. The humour is crude, mostly poo, fart and vomit gags, basically the lowest common denominator which most children will easily outgrow. The other major route of humour is the barrage of puns: time puns, dog puns and smell puns  we're not stupid! The action is rudimentary; it is easy to expect much better from Robert Rodriguez who just uses poor CGI and quick cuts. And if you can't guess who the Time Keeper really is then you haven't seen enough movies. Spy Kids: All the Time in the World feels like it is a movie that is only made for a quick buck, not for any love of the material or the need to tell a good story.A movie aimed at children should be able to enliven their imaginations: Spy Kids: All the Time in the World is not going to do that. The artificial CGI scenes just look too fake for children to accept and buy into the action and the basic predictable plot will mean that children will not love it. Adults and parents will feel nothing but suffering when watching this movie. This is just a mindless movie with no imagination, which is ironic considering it makes a point that children make better spies because they have more imagination. Children are smart; they ask questions, see plot holes and come up with ideas involving sci-fi concepts. The best family and children's movies are clever, well-plotted affairs and often have good ideas behind them. Spy Kids: All the Time in the World does not share those traits. Plus this movie carries on the awful trend of spies with babies not working.Most of the acting is sub-par. The child leads are bland and not natural actors; it's your typical weak-child acting, and they are no Chloe Mortez or Kodi Smit-McPhee. McHale was truly unconvincing as the father and again a typical bad performance in a bad family movie. Alba was a punch bag for gags to be bounded off on. Ricky Gervais seemed to be having fun, but I'm sure that's because he got a paycheck for saying bad lines in a recording studio. Piven is much the same, having fun and just being over the top.As movie fans we expect better from Rodriguez, who's done great movies like Sin City, From Dusk to Dawn and the "Mexico" Trilogy. Let's hope he is doing this movie so we can finally get Sin City 2.And I am sure you are asking the big question  what was the Scratch-and-Sniff card like? It was just a bunch of sickly sweet smells and simply just a gimmick. But you already knew that.
Tim Burton has had a tough few years with many of his newer films disappointing his fans and audiences. He returned to something more personal by turning his first short film, Frankenweenie into a feature length film. Frankenweenie is a film that Burton was committed to project, making a homage to Gothic horror films of the 30s, particularly Frankenstein and The Bride of Frankenstein and mixing it with the 50s small town Americana of Edward Scissorhands and focusing on many outsiders. The Elementary School is populated by strange characters, Victor (Charlie Tahan), an intelligent boy more interested in science and filmmaking, Elsa (Winona Ryder), a depressed goth girl, Edgar "E" Gore, a creepy hunchback kid and "Weird Girl" (Catherine O'Hara), a girl who is obsessed with her cat's psychic visions.Frankenweenie is a fantastically animated film: Burton brings out a creepy look: the characters are deliberately exaggerated as it tells a story most people can relate to when we have suffered some sort of lost. Burton recreates the look of both old Black and White monster movies and B-Movies from the 50s. But this disadvantageous because Frankenweenie is a bit too much of a love letter to though films. The humour for the most part is mild with the funniest moment being when a Eastern European puts down the parents during a public meeting in the most condescending matter possible.Frankenweenie is a solid enough film with a running of 80 minutes. But it is essentially what you would think a Tim Burton film would be like.
Based on a popular novel by Khaled Hosseini, The Kite Runner is a tale about Afghanistan's history and a family who went through it. It was a film obviously aiming for Oscar glory, but it was contending in a tough year that included No Country for Old Men, There Will Be Blood, Juno, Atonement, Juno, Michael Clayton, Sweeney Todd and many more films.The Kite Runner tells the story of Amir (Zekeria Ebrahimi/Khalid Abdalla), a young wealthy Westernised Afghan boy from Kabul and his friend and servant Hassan (Ahmad Khan Mahmidzada), who is more traditional. They both enjoy kite battles with other local children and the two go to the cinema to watch classic films. Amir's father Baba (Homayoun Ershadi) even treats Hassan like his son. But Amir breaks their friendship after Hassan is brutally attacked and when the Soviets invade the country Amir and Baba fleet to America and start a new live. Amir gets married to Soraya (Atossa Leoni) and aims to become a writer. But when an old family friend calls him he has to go back to Afghanistan.With a good script from David Benioff and the powerful direction of Marc Forster The Kite Runner is a very worthy watch. This film follows the usual trait of a Forster film, excellent acting throughout. Every actor was natural and kept a realistic level of emotion. These were all three dimensional characters where you cared about their situation. It mixed characters who are western in their opinions, compared to more traditional characters, with Baba being critical of both the Iranian Mullahs and Communists, whilst Amir is a very ambiguous character, with a film exploring the film of guilt and whether should get involved during an incident of violence.Forster did this project because it was quick to do before Quantum of Solace. But Forster is a man who carefully picks out his projects and with his direction he is able to show both a personal tale of a young boy/man with his relationships with his family and friends, to the tragic tale of Afghanistan's recent history. The family tale was of course well handled, with Amir having a difficult relationship with his father and how a friendship can be formed and broken. There is also a look at the cultural aspect of courtship which was done in a down to Earth matter as Amir and Soraya slowly build up a relationship. On the bigger scale stuff Forster shows ethnic tensions with Afghanistan and hinting at troubles between Communists and Religious Muslims at universities. Whilst Afghanistan in the 70s was not an advance country with major issues like poverty, there were still markets, children played and people did have some freedom. But when the Taliban came in it made things in Afghanistan really bad. Some people have criticised the book for its portrayal of that group, but come on, the Taliban were a horrible, evil group who subjugated the rights of its people, particularly women and claiming it was done in the name of Islam. There were people who tortured and ruled with an iron fist. There destroyed the reputation of Muslims around the world, when most Muslims are moderate people who are no different to most people. Forster was also able to keep the excitement levels up, with a shocking stoning scene, a shocking level of violence conducted against a young child and effective fight scene. Forster was also able to make the kite battles exciting (even if there were a CGI heavy) and it looked like he was going to the Bond producers 'this is what I can do'.For the most part The Kite Runner is a good film that is hard hitting which looks at some very important themes of history, family and friendship which were well handed, some moments felt too contrived and consequential, taking away some of the believability of the film. But this is still a worthy film to see.
A Scanner Darkly is an excellent adaption of the Philip K. Dick novel, looking at the wars of Drugs, drug cultures, dystopia and ideas of reality and the mind. It is an animated film, but done is a unusual style, where the characters looks like the actors they are based on.A Scanner Darkly is set seven years in the future, and America is suffering a drugs empedemic. As well as the traditional narcotics they is a new powerful drug, Substances D which rots away at a person's brain. The focus of the films is on Bob Arctor aka 'Fred' (Keanu Reeves), an undercover drugs officer in Orange County, California, who tries to infuliate a group of drug users lead by Jim Farris (Robert Downey Jr. (oh the irony)). Bob tries to find the source of Substance D, using a drug dealer and cocaine user Donna (Winona Ryder), with the hope of demanding so much from her that she would be focused tell him to go to her supplier. Within the police Bob is known as 'Fred' and all officers wear a special scammer suits which means no officer knows the other's true identity. 'Fred' boss 'Hank' believes that Bob Arctor is the leader of the drug and planning a number of illegal activities. This even gets Bob to question himself. Whilst in the group of users Bob starts taking Subtances B, and starts to mess with his brain. As the film progresses Bob starts to get more paranoid, his memory is messed up, he cognitive abilities become shot, becomes depress and miss sees objects. This affects his work for the police and relationships within the group. He slowly not even functioning as human being and looses his sense of identity.To tackle loosing in the war on drugs the US government and the police have turned America into a surveillence society where camera are everywhere, a lot of police on the ground, telephone calls being monitored and arrests being ordered immediately. People get monitored in a number of ways and as you can imagine this doesn't help with people suffering from paranoid.A Scanner Darkly is a deeply personal novel to Philip K. Dick, who was a paranoid drug user himself. This film was a reflection on. The director and writer of the film was Richard Linklater, who previously directed School of Rock (a film I found overrated (but had good music)). He used his knowledge of slacker and drug culture in this and Linklater is a fan of Dick's work, which shows in the film. He made you feel the suspense and the paranoia in film and he keeps the audience guessing. The animation, as I have mention was usual. It had a very realist view on thinks and the drawing of the characters looked like the actors who were playing them. It was done with a lot of love and talent. They is a lot of detail and you see the emotions in the characters faces. The style is similar to that used in the Isreali film Waltz with Bashir. The acting is also top notching and the casting was very good. Keanu Reeves has given his best performance since the first Matrix film. Robert Downey Jr. was perfectly casted as Farris, the sleazy drug user (a character he properly used to be) and self-made chemist. Winona Ryder is good as always and this was her first film since her shop-lifting incident. Woody Harrelson and Rory Cochrane also offer good supporting roles.A Scanner Darkly is very dark, surreal and complex, and they are all good things. It may be a little hard to follow at times, but it keeps you focus and keeps you guessing. I like complex films, I like films that have issues, and this film has it in barrel fulls. It is also in a tight little packer, just over an hour and half, similar to recent efforts by David Cronenburg. In this film I can see influences of books and films such as 1984, A Clockwork Orange, Trainspotting and Requiem for a Dream, an unusual mix but it works. In previous Dick adaptations, directors like Ridley Scott, Steven Spielburg and Paul Verhoeven had grand images of the future. Linklater's view was more down to earth, more realistic and gritty. I think because of the subject matter it is more fitting and works, compared to Paycheck, directed by John Woo. Because of the film's use of animation it made surreal scene work really well. Finally this film is also at times funny. Most of the jokes are dark, and the best one involves suicide and masturbation (I'll leave it at that).
Along Came A Spider is based on a novel by James Patterson, and has Morgan Freeman reprising his role as FBI psychologist Alex Cross. This is film is not as good as Kiss the Girls, and is not as dark, but it does fill a spot and is decent viewing.The basic plot of the film is Alex Cross is called out of retirement after a Senator's young daughter is kidnapped from her school under the noses of the Secret Service. The kidnapper picks Cross to be the main negotiator because he is damaged: he is suffering from grief and guilt after the death of his partner.The film is not the most well written, with some of the plot twists a bit unbelievable: but it does offer some gems like general politics and the politics within the Secret Service, the kidnap itself (the first 30 minutes are the best) and the general psychology of the characters. There is some good acting, Morgan Freeman can never give a bad performance, even in bad film. I thought the young actress playing Megan Rose (the kidnap victim), Mika Boorem, was very good and has promise, but I felt that the filmmakers could have shown more and play up the impact of being kidnapped. Michael Wincott and Monica Potter also offered decent performances. Lee Tamahori, the director, was really just a gun-for-hire director, but he still did solid job. He wasn't terrible but not spectacular. This was his last decent film because he ended up directing Die Another Day, XXX2: State of the Union and NextDecent enough film if it is on television.
When it was first announced that that Swedish film Let the Right One In fans of the original bemoan why do it? Is nothing sacred? I even shared this view point but I decided to give Let Me In a chance and there plenty of things that work and some that do not.Owen (Kodi Smit-McPhee) is a 12 year old who is a loner, bullied at school by a sadist kid (Dylan Minnette) and his parents are going thought a bitter divorce. He plays with knives and is a serial killer in the making. One day a man (Richard Jenkins) and his 'daughter' Abby (Chloe Grace Moretz) move into the apartment building. Owen slowly befriends Abby who gives him the confidence to face the bullies. But Abby has a thirst for blood, which her 'father' has to get for her and the police end up investigating a series of mysterious and brutal murders.There is a whole question why is Let the Right One In being remade, especially because Matt Reeves shot it in the style of original. But Reeves does bring his own approach to the film, the scene where he attacks the teenager in the car as his friend is in a petrol station and we see the fight in the background, the car chase afterwards, seen completely within the car and a quick creepy scene where Owen finds an old series photo of Abby with a boy with glasses. Reeves also cut out the scene with the cats, which in the original was one of the few weak links. The relationship between Owen and Abby is made out to be a little more fun loving, that she attempts to be a more jolly character because Owen shows affection. The acting throughout is very strong, Smit-McPhee and Moretz are two of the strongest child actors around and they both give understated performances, Moretz being the slightly stronger performer. Jenkins too gives a rather understated performance and Elias Koteas is simply a cop trying to do his job: he was not an evil or even a bad character.But of course there are problems. One involves the special effects when Abby attacks people. When she attacks her first victim it looks pretty much how Gollum would attack someone, it was almost comical. It was handled much more subtly and better in Let the Right One In when she was picked up and then she bite him, having made sudden impact then it turning into a fight scene. The bullies were just sadistic. The is a problem of the original as well, but they were so unrealistic: they were just psychopaths, willing to kill a 12-year-old boy and they are meant to be 12 themselves, though Minnette looked older. There are some small differences as well that I personally think work better in the original film, like the cutting out of the other resident of the building, the cutting of Owen's dad and the scene of the new vampire being set alight when she see explored to the sun was more over-the-top in this film seeing that a nurse also gets killed by the flames. But I might be a little too critical because of my affection for the original film.If Let Me In was a stand alone film it possibly it would have stood up better but as a remake it is surprisingly good and well done, if a little too reliant of the original.
Terrence Malick is one of the most revered directors ever with many actors wanting to work with him and he is a director who thinks very carefully about his projects: for good and ill. His first film was the drama Badlands, which films like True Romance, Natural Born Killers and Stoker owned a debt to.Holly (Sissy Spacek) is a 15-year-old Texan girl who lives in a small town in 1950s South Dakota. She soon starts a relationship with a man ten years her senior, Kit (Martin Sheen), an unemployed garbage man. But after Holly's father (Warren Oates) forbids their relationship Kit kills him and the end up on run. After trying to live out in the wilderness Kit ends up going on a killing spree and Holly forced on the ride as her feeling of love and romance are conflicted with Kit's violence nature.Malick is known for making visually impressive films and giving them excellent soundtracks: Badlands is no exception. But many of Malick films have long sequences without dialogue, with backstory told in voiceovers and can non-linear. Badlands is more traditional film, telling a straight forward story in a typical three act structure. It is a film that is more accessible for more mainstream audiences, but also has plenty of themes and ideas that will keep art-house fans happy.Badlands is a very engaging and interesting film as we watch two actors give to very grounded, understated performances. There are surface themes of a Romeo and Juliet story of star-crossed lovers and forbidden and also how someone would try to justify their crimes. But there are wider themes as well, class prejudice, how people may be escape able to escape civilisation within America and how some people within America long for escape and have a distrust of authority and society. The stark cinematography illustrates this as you can see how someone could travels for miles and not come across any other person. The film mostly focuses on two characters, a teenage girl and a man who is seemingly able to act normal, but has no problem killing people.Some of the action, violence and setting gave Badlands the film a Western feel. The film takes place in a rural setting, the guns used and exit wounds made Badlands looked like what were used in Westerns made at the time. There is even a reference to bounty hunters who are trying to capture Kit and Holly.Badlands is a thoughtful film that will appeal people with a more mainstream mindset. It is a enjoyable piece of entertainment as well as being a study of how and why someone can ask so coolly when killing people just for his own self-interest. Out of all the Malick films I have seen I think Badlands is his best.
The Western has a genre that has been revived in recent years, with many releases getting critical success. We have seen many films like the Assassination of Jesse James, Open Range and Seraphim Falls, with even international efforts making the scene, like The Proposition and The Good, the Bad and the Weird. After making the award winning Walk the Line, director James Mangold comes up with an entertaining follow-up.Set in the late 19th century Dan Evans (Christian Bale) is a Civil War veteran and an impoverished ranch owner in Arizona. He owns larges debts to a rival. Ben Wade (Russell Crowe) is a ruthless outlaw leading a violence group of men and notorious in the area. After a successful ambush, Wade is captured by the local authorities and Dan offers to take the criminal to train to Yuma prison for $200, showing his son William (Logan Lerman) that he can provide for his family. From Bisbee Dan and a team of men including a Pinkerton agent Byron McElroy (Peter Fonda), a doctor (Alan Tudyk) and coach owner Grayson Butterfield (Dallas Roberts) to take the man, but they are followed by Wade's gang led by his loyal right-hand man Charlie Prince (Ben Foster).Mangold set about using a Saving Private Ryan style of realism. The set designs and costumes were wonderful and the little details reminded me of the HBO series Deadwood. The violence is brought to a realist level, that being shot is nasty and not a clear death. But Mangold and the screenwriters tell a more traditional story, a tale of adventure and redemption in a violence and lawless world. Mangold and the writers bring in more modern ideas and themes to give the story a little more meat, with themes about Dan trying to be a good father and providing for his family seeing that his oldest son having lost faith and making the villains more three dimensional characters, with Wade trying to justify his actions, showing his rivalry with Byron and that he has sympathies for Apache people (though I doubt an outlaw would have been that sympathetic to native Americans).Mangold also directs some excellent action sequences, particular an ambush in the beginning of the film and the final sequence, with blood and bullets flying over the place and are perfected edited. Mangold shows that people want to see the action, avoiding too many quick cuts and keeps the camera steady and still. Mangold shoots with traditional filming techniques and camera but uses modern lighting to make the film look more fresh. Mangold keeps a dark brooding tone throughout, particularly the night and does not hold back. He shows that the modern Western genre can be both meaning and action packed, not just the preserve of art-house crowd.There is a great cast in this film, and Crowe and Bale are two of Hollywood most talented, if troubled stars at the moment. Both worked well together and have excellent screen chemistry as two different men. Crowe was the slighter stronger performer, but its only a manner of splitting hairs. Lerman shows that he is a promising young actor and why he was giving the lead role in Percy Jackson and why he was a strong candidate to play Spider-man. Tudyk and Roberts were very similar to characters in Deadwood, particular Doc Cochran and Whitney Ellsworth. But the most surprising performer was Ben Foster: his career has been unimpressive with roles in X-Men: The Last Stand (which was no more then a glorified cameo) and 30 Days of Night. In 3:10 to Yuma his role was engaging as the main villain, a ruthless, violence man who is young and does not have any boundaries which come with age. He is a man who looks up to Wade as a father figure/older brother (a long running theme in the film) and looks older with a bread.Whilst watching a very entertaining film, I did think I would like to see what Steven Spielberg and Sir Ridley Scott could do with a Western.
Frank Miller and Chris Claremont's 1982 Japanese story arc is one of the most famous and celebrated in comic book history. It has finally been the cinematic treatment, amidst a loose adaptation and watches out the taste of Wolverine's first solo outing.After the events of X-Men: The Last Stand, Logan (Hugh Jackman) has living alone in the Canadian wilderness and suffering from recurring dreams about Jean Grey (Famke Janssen) and guilt about her death. As Logan challenges a group of illegal hunters in a bar, he is found by Yukio (Rila Fukushima), a woman recruited to bring The Wolverine to Yashida (Haruhiko Yamanouchi), a dying Japanese industrialist he saved when he was a Prisoner of War outside Nagasaki.In Japan, Yashida gives Logan an offer to take his healing factor and make Wolverine mortal. But even though Wolverine refuses his powers are taken from him anyway and he is thrown into a family industrial struggle involving the Yakuza, a clan of ninjas, a corrupt Japanese government minister and a mysterious biochemist mutant known as The Viper (Russian actress Svetlana Khodchenkova who performs with a flawless American accent). As Wolverine protects Yashida's granddaughter, Mariko (Tao Okamoto), from all these factions, he also begins to see what it can be like to live a normal life.X-Men Origins: Wolverine had many problems, misjudged humour, awful special effects, subpar action, awful writing and introducing characters just for the sake of fan service. The Wolverine does rectify many of these problems and director James Mangold had much more free reign then Gavin Hood had.Mangold knew what made the best X-Men films work, so he focuses on character development and more brooding drama and it is complemented by an excellent performance from Jackman. Jackman gives us the Wolverine of old, a character who is haunted, suffering from nightmares and guilt, looking for a reason to give his life meaning as well as giving us the gruff wit we know and love from Wolverine. The Wolverine is a much darker film, more akin to X-Men and X2 which it needed to be. Yet the film still has a massive injection of fun which you would expect from a film featuring mutants, samurais and ninjas.While The Wolverine has an expected PG-13 rating, Mangold does push it to the limit. We see Wolverine sliding his way through Yakuza thugs, having his flesh scorched off by the nuclear blast and our hero having to operate on himself. There is solid action throughout the film and the more cheesy elements has been removed in The Wolverine, with the only misjudged sequence being the Bullet Train fight sequence, as it comes off a little goofy. Comedy has also been cut, with The Wolverine having two overtly comic sequences and Wolverine having a few comic remarks, but they are actually inkeeping with the character.As an adaptation of the Japanese miniseries, The Wolverine had to take liberties to make it work with the film series' continuity (though continuity is now very screwed up in the X-Men series). Yukio is no longer the ambiguous assassin with a danger complex and her colour are nailed on the mast, Mariko and Logan having no prior relationship, Mariko's father (Hiroyuki Sanada) is a combination of her father and husband in the comic and the Viper has no role in the original comic are just some of the changes that were made. But these are changes that are easy to look past, even though on a personal standpoint it would have been nice to see more of the parallels between Wolverine and Yukio. The changes to the Silver Samurai will be a bit harder to swallow for comic book fans and it is when the film loses it way a little with its action climax.The Wolverine had a number of villains and it does result in problems. The first one is the film does not know who to make the main villain before settling on Viper, who does have a commanding presence on screen. The other is due to the number of factions in play, which makes many of the characters a bit underdeveloped. One character that suffered this was Will Yun Lee's Harada, the head of the ninja who did have an interesting character who was loyal to Mariko.The Wolverine does have some script problems and the final act is a more generic affair, but its clear that Mangold and Jackman do have a good understanding of the character and they put the cinematic version of Wolverine in good standing.And on a final note, the post credit scene is a must see: it is one of best and most tantalising in a long time.Please visit www.entertainmentfuse.com
I have always been a fan of Wallace and Gromit and I was so happy when I heard that a feature film was being made. I loved the BBC programs that were made and Chicken Run was also a very entertaining film. In the film Wallace and Gromit have gone into the pest control business and humanely. The town is about to have their annual Vegetable contest and everyone in the village is covered by their company. However, Wallace and Gromit is unable to deal with the growing number of rabbits they end up having to care for so try and brainwash them. However a Wererabbit is created and its up to the heroes to capture it before Victor Quatermaine (Ralph Fiennes) is able to kill it. At the same time Wallace is trying to woo Lady Tottington (Helena Bonham-Carter).Wallace and Gromit has a fanbase, especially in the UK and this film was praised by most critics. It has the best silent performances you will see from a modern film. It is friendly for the kids but has plenty for adults as well. It has homages to horror films, mainly werewolf films and does play on that fact. It does also have fun little easter eggs as well, such as the priest and the nun wrestling magazine. This film is very British which I enjoyed and has a nice old-fashioned felt to it which I liked. I really like the fact that Nick Park ignored what the Americans advised him to do. It is just the right length for children, but it should be noted that spot motion animation does take a long time to make. The film keeps Peter Sallis as the voice of Wallace, and has two great British actors as the supporting stars. There are also other British performers in the film such as Peter Kay (who I normally find annoying), but like in this film. It does what Pixar films do and focus on the story and try not to get big stars in the film. Finally the film is beautifully animated, having great models and good sets. The film is very detailed on that front.Wallace and Gromit is a great film for adults and children.
Australia is a great nation, it sunny, has a nice environment, the people are very friendly and it is becoming a more multicultural nation, with people from many different backgrounds, British and Irish, Serbian, Croatian, Maltese, Italian, Chinese, Thai, etc.... But Australia is also a nation that has to face up to racist past, with the government only recently apologising to the Aboriginal people. The Aborigines is still a community that suffer from major social issues like alcoholism.In 1931 Australia had a long standing policy of removing 'Half-Caste' (i.e. mixed race) children from Aboriginal families. They were taken to camps to be trained to be domestic servants and farm labourers. The aim was 'to breed the black out' from mixed race people. In Western Australia in the community of Jigalong are two sisters, Molly Craig (Everlyn Sampi) and Daisy Kampill (Tianna Sansbury) and their cousin Gracie (Laura Monaghan), live with their mum and grandmother. The protector of Aborigines, Mr. Neville (Kenneth Branagh) orders the girls to be taken away from their family and place them in Moore River Camp, run by nuns. The girls led by Molly make a run for it, aiming for the rabbit-proof fence that was near their home. On the way their have to avoid the police and the tracker Moodoo (David Gulpilil). They also meet allies, both white and Aboriginal, who help them find their way home.There is excellent acting from the child actresses on a simple mission to get home. Young actors tend to be fearless, and in this film their did a wonderful job, particularly Everlyn Sampi and Tianna Sansbury. Everlyn Sampi shows Molly as a intelligent, resourceful teenager who could outwit an expert tracker. Their is excellent chemistry between the young actors. Kenneth Branagh offers a more subtle, realistic performance as the villain of the film. It could have been easy to portray Neville as a one-dimensional character. But he is show to be a more real character, he believes in the racist theories, and doesn't believe that Whites and Aborigines should mix, but he believes he was doing it for the benefit of the Aborigines, making his character more complex.The director of the piece was Phillip Noyce, a surprising choice. He was a man known more for making action films, like Patriot Games and Clear and Present Danger (the best Tom Clancy adaptions), The Saint and The Bone Collector. Here he makes a more gritty film, showing the horrors of the camp, like there not even being a toilet, and tough, rough conditions of Western Australia (Australia's least populated state). Even the countryside plays it part in this film. Noyce does a solid job with this film.Despite the positives, there are a couple of small problems. The main bad-guys in the film, Neville and the nuns were English, whilst the good white people were rural, salt of the Earth Australians. I'm sure that there would have been a more mixed picture, with plenty of white Australians being racist in the 1930s. But as stated, even with the villains their at least believed their were doing the right thing. It also felt like the girls were a bit too lucky meeting nice people on the way home, and their is a minor historical inaccuracy: civilians did volunteer for the search, fearing for the girls welfare.This is a worthy film, especially if you are interested in the Stolen Generation, social history and of course, a very good story.
Disney has one of the greatest animation studios around and has fans all around the world. After a long hiatus the studio returned to fairy adaptations. With Tangled they retold the story of Rapunzel and Disney delivered a delightful family film, filled with humour and comedy, brilliant and colourful animation (which is terrific on Blu-ray), action and drama. They is plenty of slapstick reminiscence to the Looney Toons, particularly been the leading male character and the a very determined horse. They are verbal jokes and gags through character interactions. Donna Murphy gave us an interesting villain, someone who is a more subtle and manipulative character on Rapunzel and adds a mother-daughter dynamic. The songs are sadly a little more pop princess and not particularly memorial. The stand out song is 'Mother Knows Best', sounding similar to 'Master of the House' from Les Mis and the visuals match the song well. Good viewing if you want something light-hearted.On minor nitpick I have is that I thought Rapunzel's mouth was too big.
Lars von Trier is highly controversial director, both as a filmmaker and as a personal. He met controversy again at the 2011 Cannes Film Festival when he claimed he was sympathetic to Hitler and claimed he was a Nazi (a criminal offence in France) and it cost Melancholia the Palme d'Or. But Melancholia is still a very interesting and compelling film.Melancholia is the tale of two sisters, Justine (Kirsten Dunst) and Claire (Charlotte Gainsbourg) and is told two parts. The first focuses on Justine on her wedding day with Michael (Alexander Skarsgard) which ends in failure, the other focusing on Claire as she helps Justine battle her depression and her own anxiety as the planet Melancholia is about to collide with Earth.The first eight minutes of Melancholia plays like the most depressing music video ever made, with striking slow motion imagines as the planet is about to be destroyed as the Prelude to Tristan und Isolde plays powerfully constantly. Out of the two stories, Claire's is much better then Justine. In the context of the story it works better, it is a personal story about the relationship between the sisters to the backdrop of a impending disaster. They have role reversal in the middle of this story as Justine battles her crippling depression before accepting death and sees the destruction of Earth as the end of life in the universe and sees it as what Earth deserves. Claire suffers from a deep anxiety because she was wants son and herself to live and it is implied that she has anxiety problems before.The wedding storyline did not add to the film and about half of it could have been cut. It starts well enough with Justine seeming to be very much in love with Michael (Alexander Skargard) but after seeing the red star changes the personality of the characters, bringing out Justine's depression, like when the Apes touched the monolith that brought humanity to the next leave. The Wedding could have been a great way to establish the characters, the situation, maybe announced the discovery of the planet, complex relationship between the sisters and hinting that their may have inherited their mental illnesses from their mother. But it dragged too much, ruined a lot of potential, filled the film with big name actors like John Hurt and Stellan Skargard because well, von Trier, needless subplots that could have handled better and this first half could easily turn people off the film before the much better second half.Dunst and Gainsbourg were excellent in their roles, bringing out very complex and compelling performance. This is easily Dunst's best performance as she plays the a heartbreaking depressive role. Kiefer Sutherland too gives a strong, if schizophrenic performance (but I put that down to the writing), as a rich man who is concerned about his money, has a rough relationship with his sister-in-law, becomes excited about Melancholia passing Earth and having to pretend everything is alright. Despite the uneven writing Sutherland was much more grounded compared to Dunst and Gainsbourg.Melancholia is a very grim film, keeping the tone of impending doom throughout. Melancholia is also a very thematic film, as it looks at the doom of the Earth, Justine's wedding and her character, about the acceptance of death and destruction, a look of the personal relationships and problems in the middle of the end of the world. Both halves are set in John's (Sutherland) isolated estate, keeping the film to be a personal story. There is no look at the outside world, there is no TV news, newspaper and just a quick on the internet. This is a film focused solely on the characters and looks at their problems, their fears and they influence the other. We see everything through Justine and Claire's eyes.The cinematography with its use of hand held cameras and the imaginary were incredible throughout, fitted with symbolism and just looked beautiful throughout. And the Prelude to Tristan und Isolde is only piece of music that acts as a score, but it is a fantastic, powerful and very fitting music for the film.Another Earth would be an interesting comparison piece to Melancholia: both films look at the discovery of a new planet in our solar system, how it would impact people on Earth, but Another Earth is a more hopeful, philosophical film whilst Melancholia is a grim and personal film. They are both fantastic film, but for me Another Earth has the edge, simply because it is shorter and more tout.In comparison to some of Melancholia's Cannes competition, it is better then Tree of Life which was a case of the emperor's new clothes, but Drive was a much entertaining film.If you can make it through the wedding half of the film Melancholia is very interest, compelling and striking film, top off by two great performances.
Development hell has been the curse of many films, delaying films, bringing in countless directors, writers and actors who leave for various reasons. The same thing happened with Where the Wild Things Are, with debates on where the film should be animated or live action and Warner Brothers feared that the film would be too dark and scary for children.Max (Max Records) is a hyper-active, unruly child with a big imagine. His parents are divorced with his mother (Catherine Keener) struggling with work. He is petty and unmanageable when he does not get his way. After disrupting his mum's date Max bites her and runs away. When he runs away he ends up in a strange land, with a range of unusual creatures. Max is made their king after claiming he had magical powers. Max forms a strong relationship with one of the monsters, Carol (James Gandolfini), but there are big stresses when it comes to kingship.Spike Jonze is a smart director and he has ambition. He basically made a big budget indie film. Throughout the film Jonze kept a downbeat tone, making a film about a child and his relationships. This a film about character development and how characters change over the course of a film. Jonze is bold because he avoided CGI as much as possible, having men in large costumes and animatronics and only used CGI just to help with the monsters some expressions. The film looked like it was a fantasy film from the 1980s, and I mean that as a compliment because it is refreshing to see old-fashion techniques and I agree with Jonze's philosophy.Jonze and writer Dave Eggers had to expand a story that was only 48 pages when it was a children's book. The characters evolve. Max in the beginning of the film is unruly and it can either be seen that he has behavioural problems or simply struggling to cope with his family issues. Carol act as both Max's guardian and mentor and a mirror of Max, turning Max from being the parent to a almost parent like figure. The other monsters have their own personalities, Judith (Catherine O'Hara) being a downer and often confrontational, Douglas (Chris Cooper) who is a loyal to Carol to the point that he is willing to do some destruction to keep him happy, Alexander (Paul Dano) the goat who is ignored and depressive, a little like Marvin the depressed android and K.W. (Lauren Ambrose) who is a loner but properly the most sensible of the group. Max is able to bring happily to the group and live out a his childish fantasies, with the monsters making him able to fulfil them: but struggles when he starts to play favourites.Jonze uses hand-held cameras to great effect and the score by Karen O and Carter Burwell was fresh, different and match the film. But I do have to say Where the Wild Things Are seem to be made more for adults then for children, partly because of the tone and darkness, but mainly the plot and story is more adult. Children would expect a more adventure based story.Max Records is a strong lead and a talented young actor. He starts off as a natural child and stays like that, whether he playing, making stories or having a tender moment with his mum. Even thought Keener had a small role she had a good relationship with Records and you would really believe that she is his mother. Jonze, like Wes Anderson, made his voice actors perform rather then stand in a recording studio and say their lines about 20 times. The voice actors are solid, with Gandofini being the highlight.There are interesting ideas, but I would have like to have seen more about the history of this strange world or explain why some of the world is dying: it could have lead to a more dramatic story. Some of the monsters could have been more developed and were just background characters and there are throwaway moments that did not go anywhere, like the giant dog.A solid 7.5 out of 10.
Back in 1982 Disney started to enter into the world of making sci-fi films, starting with a little film called TRON. Despite TRON only being a moderate success over the years it became a Cult Classic and ended up having generations of fans. But it still took the House of Mouse to make a long awaited sequel.Kevin Flynn (Jeff Bridges) the CEO of has been missing for 20 years, leaving only his young Sam (Garrett Hedlund). Sam shows little interest in ENCOM, the company he ran and simple looks for thrill seeking. He is a little like Bruce Wayne. After Sam performs his yearly prank on ENCOM, his father's friend Alan Bradley (Bruce Boxleitner) tells Sam he has received a message from Kevin. When Sam investigates Kevin's old arcade he ends up teleported into the Grid. Kevin's creation, CLU (also Bridges) has taken over the Grid and plans to escape into the real world. But luckily Sam's dad and his companion Quorra (Olivia Wilde) are there to help. Sam and Kevin have to escape the Grid before CLU does.TRON Legacy is obviously a special effects films and the director Joseph Kosinski certainly brought this to live. Kosinski and his team basically expand on what the original created, showing what could be done with modern special effects. There were added features to the Grid, from storm clouds in the distance to new inventions like the gliders. The action is really well done, whether it was the disc fights, the light cycle battles or an aerial dog fight. Kosinski did use slow motion little to much but I think his logic behind it is show the detail of something like the light cycle being formed. The fights were well done through, like the fight in the bar.Acting for the most part is decent, Hedlund shows promise as a leading man. Whilst he is a pretty boy he has the action chops and can deliver his lines well enough. I have to praise Jeff Bridges' plastic surgeon for making him look young. But serious it is impressive that special effects can make an actor look young again and he does well playing the duel, as Kevin he is an aged hippy, a shell of the man he use to be as he takes a policy of non-intervention. He is almost like an older, jarred version of the Dude in the cyber world. As CLU he is more of a ruthless villain, a creation with a God complex wanting perfection. But near the end he becomes more of a clichéd villain wanting power and giving a grand speech to his army. I do not think much of Wilde as an actress but she is alright here when she is in a action scene. But for me the real winner was Michael Sheen being so over the top pantomime as a club owner/rouge programme. Sheen is a talented actor but sometimes if he is not reigned in he can chew up the scenery.Whilst TRON Legacy delivers on the action and special effects front plot wises it is a bit basic and I think that is a shame because there was potential for more. The real goal for Sam is try and escape the grid and I personally think the film could have used a more tort script, tightening up some of the scenes and give the film a running time of one hour 40 minutes. Themes that could have been explored was a religious idea that Kevin Flynn and CLU are the Gods of this world, and they relationship could be like CLU being Satan who was actually able to overthrow God. The whole idea of they being two creators could have played on the culture and political situation of the Grid, two factions and ideas being formed around Flynn and CLU. Other ideas could have been looking more at the idea of CLU wanting to make a perfect world and perfection meaning killing anything that does not match it. Or how absolute powers corrupts CLU or a programme taking over duties it should not have, like Skynet in the Terminator Series. It is hard not to compare TRON Legacy to similar themed films like The Matrix and Inception, but it is more an issue of coincidence then anything else. I would have liked to see more of the city being developed and the world expanding but that's just me.Daft Punk did the soundtrack for TRON Legacy and yeah, it was a really good soundtrack. Some of it sounded like Inception with the use of horns, but again I think this was a coincidence. It is a really good dance soundtrack when it becomes a more techno based album.TRON Legacy is an enjoyable film, with lots of solid action but it should have been more shorter and stayed simple or expanded on some of the ideas it introduced. We will have to wait and see if there is a sequel.
This was the film that put the zombie genre and George A. Romero on the map. It is a classic example of low budget film-making at his finest how great Romero was and is at making films.The film is set in rural Pennsylvania, and in a small house a small group of people are having to survive against the newly raised living dead. In the house is a family, with a sick child, a black man who becomes the leader, a mentally damaged woman and a young couple. As events unfold they find out through the media that the dead had risen and that only way to stop them was to shot them in the brain or cut off their head.It's a basic story but it is layered. The film has a lot of scares in it and the apocalypse story is very exciting. There is a political sub-context to the film, especially in the politics of race, because this was one of the first films to have a black man as the major hero of the film. Other intreputions of the film is the Vietnam war and the Cold War. Romero is a very political director and this was carried on into his other Living Dead films.The story behind the film is also interesting. It costed $10,000, which even in 1968 was a pitent. Romero had to use up very favour available to him to get this film made.The special effects are simply, but easily covered by the black and white film and the acting isn't great, but the people in this film were amateurs, you didn't expert Oscar winning acting. There is also a bitter ending to this film, which I thought was very fitting for this type of film.If you like horror films or zombie films then this is a must see.
Since the success of 300 they has been a massive influx of pseudo-historic films and films based on Greek mythology. Few have been that successful and the producers of 300 decided to reclaim their crown, getting visual director Tarsem Singh to direct.Eons ago before the creation of man were immortals. Only immortals could kill other immortals and a war raged. After the war, the victors became Gods, the vanquished became Titans and were imprisoned beneath Mouth Tartarus. In 1228 B.C. King Hyperion (Mickey Rourke) seeks to free the Titans to overthrow the Gods and to do this he needs to find the lost Epirus Bow. As Hyperion brings about a reign of death and destruction humanity has an unlikely hero, a peasant Theseus (Henry Cavill) who can lead a fight against the megalomaniac.Immortals was a film I wanted to like, but I just couldn't. The action was strong; it was brutal and bloody and had a highly stylised look, especially when the God were involved in their slo-mo glory. For the most part the action flowed nicely, well edited and embraced bloody violence. Singh is known for being a bold visualist and Immortals has a very striking look, using a dull filter to make colours like gold and even more noticeable, there memorial costumes and the Titans in their prison had a distinctive look. Some of the high shots from the top of towers looking down at Hyperion's army were very much like Lord of the Rings. But the cinematography was so dark at times that it was hard to tell what was happening in the film.Whilst the visuals and action was very strong the acting was woeful. Henry Cavill who is set to play Superman does a decent job and John Hurt is always a professional but most the actors were just so wooden. Rourke just grumbled his lines and the film felt like a step back for him and there is a strange mix of British and American accents when they should have been some consistence. The story is cookie-cutter. I am aware that the story is loosely based on a legend and that a lot of storytelling have some roots in Greek mythology but Immortals did clichéd, from a peasant Theseus refusing to fight until his village is attacked and his mother is killed, Theseus is held as a slave, the Gods are not allowed to enter into the conflict, etc. We have seen all this before and it just felt like a rehash of classic films like Jason and the Argonauts. 300 at least felt like a fresh experience in comparison.Immortals was an ambitious film and a noble attempt, at least from a visual standpoint. But despite being visually different story wises it was no different to films like Jason and the Argonauts. If you feel you must see this film like I did then it is a rental but you only need to see it once.
I am a big fan of Stanley Kubrick and The Killing is excellent film noir from him. The basic plot is a group of men plan to rob $2 Million from a racetrack and split the money evenly. What makes this film so good is the way the story is told; instead of telling it straight like a lot of directors would have done, Kubrick tells the story from the points of view of the different characters. It shows how the events of the robbery were done and interlinked. This technique has influenced and been used by Quentin Tarantino in Reservoir Dogs and Jackie Brown. The film could have portrayed the gang as badguys, only in it for the money, but in this film we actually care for the characters and you want them to get away with the money. It shows one character who has a sick wife and just wants to make her live more comfortable, another is unhappily married and his wife derides him and uses him and the leader of the guy wants to set himself up and live happily with his girlfriend. There are also unsympathetic characters in the film and there are twists in this picture. The film also starts Sterling Hayden, a fine actor from the 50s and 60s, and is the best person in the Killing, but there are other decent performances in the film. The Killing also has some very good scenes and set-pieces which Kubrick is very good at. He is know for doing very good shots and a scene I really liked in this film was the fight in bar which was very well done. Finally the running time of this film is very short, making it a nice snappy little picture.The Killing is an clever little film which should be watched, especially if you are a fan of crime films, film noir or Kubrick.
The Warriors is a cult classic and to me Walter Hill's best film. A simple, violent and very entertaining little film.Set in New York, Cyrus (Roger Hill), a powerful, charismatic and intelligence gang leader invites the leaders of street gangs to attend a meeting expressing his idea for how all the street gangs of New York can unite and take control of the city. But before he can for fulfill his dream he ends up getting killed by a random gang member and the Warriors end up getting the blame. The Warriors are forced to get back to safety from the Bronx to their home-tuft in Coney Island, with every gang in New York hunting them, and prove their innocents.It's a simple, but fun idea, a great premise and easy viewing. It set in one night and Walter Hill knows how to make a fast paced film. Walter Hill brings a dark tone to the film, giving it a Clockwork Orange kind of feel. It is a ground level dystopia with society breaking down and violence ruling the streets and the police struggling to keep control. You get some gangs like the Warriors which seem like a normal street gang, whilst have a theme, like baseball uniforms or greasers etc... Some of the acting is a little ropey, but it doesn't matter when storytelling is this good, and Walter Hill knows set pieces. There is also a very good soundtrack to this film.
This is the most anti-Semitic film I have ever seen which in itself makes me rank it one star, but it would earn it anyway.This film tells the story of the last 12 hours of Jesus Christ's life, and it is a gory affair. Whether you are religious or not it is safe to assume that Jesus was an important figure during his lifetime and was a very political person. This film does not show any of this and just show some of the most brutal acts of torture I have seen. I like gritty realism in films, but this goes over the top. As I said if you are going to make a film about Jesus you could do a lot more then just showing him getting tortured.I am not a religious person and I don't know the Bible very well, but when I was at school I was taught that it was the Romans that arrested and killed Jesus, and that the Jews had nothing to do with it. In this film it showed that the Jews arrested Jesus, beat him up and gave him to Romans and demanded that they killed him. I was also taught that Pontius Pilot was the real villain who was very willing to kill Jesus. In the film he is just portrayed as man who had a difficult choice and he did not want to kill Jesus. In the Passion, every single Jew show in it wanted Jesus to be tortured and killed. As a historian I believe that the Romans saw Jesus as a torn in their side and would have been only too willing to kill Jesus.All Jewish characters were made to be stereotyically Jewish, showing the worst parts of it. All the Jewish Priests were made out to be ugly, with large noses and horrible bodies, whilst Jesus and his followers were a good-looking bunch.Mel Gibson also could not help himself and had a bit of Gay-bashing and King Herod as a very camp, very effeminate bisexual who like to dress up as a woman. I admit I don't know much about King Herod or his sexual habits, but I pretty sure that he would not have been camp or just up as a woman at any time of his life, especially in the Middle-east.Finally, as an Englishman I am surprised that Mel Gibson did not portray that the Romans as sadistic Englishman. I have a axe to grind because of Gibson's Anglophonia.The only good thing about this film is that it was done in the languages that was spoken at the time and James Caviezel was a good actor, but I still say avoid this film at all costs.
Will Smith at the moment is the world only superstar which could ensure a studio can make big profit in any film he stars in. Since 2002 he has not had a flop film, Men in Black II, Boy Boys II, I, Robot, Hitch, The Pursuit of Happiness and Hancock: some of them are actually pretty good. He is a unique position to do what ever he wants and now produces many of his films. But even with I Am Legend it demands a lot from an actor, because he has the carry the film all by himself. But luckily he does in a film that works.In the 2012 most of the world has be whipped out or turned in a vampire-zombie hybrid (the Darkseekers). They act like zombie, surviving just to eat flesh of any animal, but can not go out in sunlight. They seem to lack any humanity. Also animals like rats and dogs can be inflected by the virus. In New York there is only one man left, Robert Neville (Will Smith), with his dog Sam, his only companion. He is a army officer and a virologist, who spends his days researching for a cure, hunting and growing food, exercising, sending out radio messages, and waiting for possible survivors at South Street Seaport. He does try to keep active just keep his mind from frying, like watching DVDs, old TV boardcasts and playing golf off an aircraft carrier. At night he stays in his home, staying alert in case there is an attack by the Darkseekers. Robert Neville at night suffer from flashbacks when the virus gets out and when he takes his wife and young daughter Marley (Salli Richardson and Willow Smith) to Brooklyn Bridge to fled the city. There is renewed hope for humanity when one of his formulas starts to work on a inflected rat. He needs a Darkseeker to ensure that the cure would work on humans.I Am Legend is a good film, but it's also a film of two halves. There is the really good half showing Robert Neville as a man by himself and a fascinating look of the effects of isolation from humanity, showing signs that his mental facilities are starting to slip. Will Smith gives an excellent performance of a man on the edge who had to life at every turn, and on a desperate mission to save the world by himself. There is a good emotional drive, particularly involving his Sam (I don't want to give the game away). As a psychological film it works. What lets the film down is the action side. They are some decent action scenes, and they are some moments that are really good like the beam of sunlight dividing Sam and the infected dogs. But the director Francis Lawrence was too reliant on CGI. It was pretty obvious when he used to for animals like deers and lions, and especially on the Darkseekers. It would have looked more realistic, effective and scary (and properly cheaper) to cast actors and get a good make-up team to put prosthetic on them.Besides from the CGI, Francis Lawrence does offer a steady hand behind the camera and he does have potential as a director. He does have some problems and I think he needs to direct a smaller project just to prove what he can do. Ridley Scott and Guillermo del Toro were linked to the film and I think though two could have made a good film even better. Del Toro would have been really suited to the material. But Michael Bay also at one point was going to direct and we all know that would have been a CGI porn explosion fest.A little note, this was the film that got me in Bob Marley, having his song played throughout it, which is never a bad thing.If you enjoy post-apocalyptic fiction like 28 Days Later or Stephen King's the Stand then you should enjoy I Am Legend.
You know from the get-go that if a movie like this claims to be based on a true story, it is anything but. Loosely based on a book by Sir Ranulph Fiennes, Killer Elite is essentially a Jason Statham vehicle that his fans will enjoy.In 1980, Danny Bryce (Statham) is an assassin who quits after killing a target in front of his young son in Mexico. After a year away from the bloody business, he lives quietly in rural Australia, when his friend Hunter (Robert De Niro) is taken hostage by Sheikh Amr (Rodney Afif), who looks a lot like Osama Bin Laden. In Oman, Danny is given the mission to assassinate and get confessions from three SAS soldiers who killed his sons during the Dhofar Rebellion. If he fails, Hunter dies, but if he succeeds, Hunter will be freed and he will get $6 million. As Danny and his team start hunting down these men, a secret society of ex-SAS soldiers become worried about the death of their former companions and get their enforcer, Spike (Clive Owen), to investigate and stop the assassinations.Killer Elite is basically The "Bourne" series if it was louder, dumber and bloodier. Most of the action is shot similar to Paul Greengrass efforts using shaky cam, tight close-ups and quick editing. It is similar in tone because of its intelligence espionage setting, but not done as well. Director Gary McKendry shoots in a gritty style, very much like a 1970s thriller or Tony Scott's Man on Fire, but that gritty tone is undermined by silly scenes such as the meeting of the Feathermen club, which uses terrible dialogue to explain their origins. It was really clunky seeing as their men know each other.This movie has a number of action thriller clichés: a job that goes wrong, an assassin forced to leave the underworld and forced back into it when a loved one is kidnapped, and the timeless killer with a conscience so that innocent people do not get hurt. It is hardly an original action movie, but there are at least some fun shoot-outs and chases.Because of the period setting, the use of a shadowy organisation and the involvement of a real person, Killer Elite reminded me a lot of another Statham movie, The Bank Job. Its style and look makes Killer Elite "The Bank Job 2" in all but name. Fans of The Bank Job will get a kick out of this movie.De Niro is in this movie for the paycheck. He gives a phoned-in performance and it shows with his little screen time. Statham is his typical gruff self, but that is what he is good at and he is always impressive in a fight scene. Owen is the best performer in a movie filled with average performances.Overall, Killer Elite is a loud, typical action thriller that is not going to set the world alight, but it is still entertaining for Statham fans.
The Ghost is based on a best-selling novel by Robert Harris, the writer of the excellent Fatherland. This is the first film adaptation he done where he was involved with screenplay. It was also Roman Polanski's comeback film after his Oliver Twist adaptation was not as successful as hoped for.Ewan McGregor plays a ghost writer for many auto-biographies and he had been approached to complete the memoirs of Adam Lang (Pierce Brosnan), the controversial former British Prime Minister. The man who was previously writing it had died and his body washes up on the coast of America. Before the Ghost goes to America to meet the former PM they are actuations that Lang was involved with war crimes and extraordinary rendition by the former Foreign Secretary Richard Rycart (Robert Pugh). When at Lang's mansion on Martha's Vineyard the Ghost believes there are inconsistencies with Lang's personal story and the man avoids talking about his uni life. He is forced to stay on the compound when Lang's location is relieved and the media and peace protesters hold siege to the place. The Ghost is forced into his predecessor's room and discoveries that he uncovers a possible wider conspiracy.Robert Harris was a big supporter and friend of the Blairs when Tony Blair was leader of the Labour party and Prime Minister until the Iraq War. He had a falling out and when Blair resigned Harris used the novel as chance to criticise the PM's actions. It was shown in the film with Lang undertaking some questionable actions involving the war on Terrorism and Britain's relationship with America. He shows Lang as a man who was not interested in ideology and that he was a man who was concerned about his image. Brosnan was excellent portraying these characteristics without being a carbon copy of Tony Blair. At the same time the character Rycart was pretty much what would have happened if Robin Cook was alive today.There is a good cast in the film. As mentioned Brosnan was excellent and this was his best performance since leaving the Bond series. McGregor offers one of his best performances since Trainspotting, as a naive man thrown into an extra-ordinary situation and he brought some excellent character traits like his wit and borderline alcoholism. Olivia Williams too offers an excellent performance as Ruth Lang, the wife of the Prime Minister and a copy of Cherie Blair. Her performance was surprisingly sympathetic with the other moment of spite, which is really weird because Cherie is one of the most hated woman in Britain and a so-called socialist who enjoys the high life. Other actors like Kim Cattrall and Tom Wilkingson were totally unrecognisable as in their roles, which is a credit to their talent. Cattrall was particularly good as Lang's secretary and mistress which did not need to be shown.Polanski is obviously a talented director despite the controversy surrounding him. He let the actors do their thing and point the camera in the right place. They is little need for quick cutting and he allows a slow burning pace at the beginning which speeds up later. He knows how to make a tense thriller without the need for action sequences. He also uses music very effectively. Polanski and Harris tell a very realistic plot and will interesting ideas that are hardly beyond the realms of imagination, like the CIA recruiting academics. The story slowly unravels, keeping the audience on the edge of their seats. This is an excellent film to anyone who is interested in politics.However, whilst the film is good for the most part the tone should have been anger towards Lang/Blair, whilst keeping its realistic themes. They could have shown that Lang made a lot of money after being PM like Blair, sitting on the boards of companies and lecturing at American Universities. Also at times the film did drag a little too slowly, that was fine at the beginning but other times it made the film a little dull occasionally.A fine political thriller, similar to The Constant Gardener.
Back in 1997 writer-director Andrew Niccol had a great debut with the sci-fi film Gattaca, an ambition, intelligent sci-fi drama. He set out to return to the sci-fi genre with a slightly more mainstream effort, In Time with Justin Timberlake getting the starring role.In the future scientists are able to stop the aging process to 25-year- old over and after that they have a digital timer that gives them an extra year. Time has become currency with the poor living day by day whilst the rich could live forever. Will Salas (Timberlake) is a 28- year-old factory worker who meets Henry Hamilton (Matt Bomer), a suicidal rich man who tells Will the truth about the system and gives Will all his time. Soon Will goes to the wealthy district and teams up Sylvia Weis (Amanda Seyfried) and the pair end up becoming Robin Hood figures who rob from the rich to give to the poor. But on their trial are Timekeeper Ray Leon (Cillian Murphy), a police officer for the society and Sylvia's banker father Philippe (Vincent Kartheiser).Niccol clearly been reading his Marxist philosophy and highly influenced by the narrative of the post banking crisis world. We get the usual left wing arguments and world building with society being split between the rich and poor with the rich living in a gated community, living off the back of the poor as they live in luxury and few caring about the poor/the ghetto. The ghetto is left to its own devices as people literally die on the street and it is a dog eat dog world where if anyone shows any sort of wealth end up getting themselves killed by a local crime lord played by Alex Pettyfer and the police ignore crime in the poor district. This is even a film that advocate that the rich and banks are the real thefts and criminals, wants the redistribute wealth and goes for the easiest target, the banks. Surprising considering this is a film made by Fox.In Time was meant to be a starring vehicle for Justin Timberlake and sadly he does not impress. He is solid in the few action scenes but he was a little stiff and unconvincing. He is capable of more having seen what he can do in The Social Network. But the whole cast was lacklustre, even Murphy, an actor I normally like, seemed disinterested. Whoever thought that casting Pettyfer was a good idea really needs to consider their career.In Time does have a strong concept and Niccol does have some good ideas likes that Will is discovered that he is from a poor background because he runs and rushes when people in the rich district where no one needs to rush and the effect of the timers on people's arm was nicely done. But visually In Time is a bland film and its look of the world is no different to what it is today, compared to Gattaca had a retro-futurism to it. None does In Time have the complex themes that Gattaca had.In Time had some solid ideas but overall it would have worked better as a short film and takes a very basic view of Marxism. It does not success as a sci-fi drama or as an actioner.
Robin Hood: Prince of Thevies is a film which has its moment but is overall a deeply fault film and a poor retelling of the Robin Hood legend for the modern audience.In this version Robin Hood (Kevin Costner) is a soldier who was captured during the Crusades and escapes with Azeem (Morgen Freeman), a Moor. When he comes back to England he sees that the evil Sheriff of Nottingham (Alan Rickman) had killed his father and taken over his lands. Robin knows he has to go on the run to escape the Sheriff and hides in Sherwood Forest. It is there where he meets Little John and his team of thieves. After defeating Little John Robin becomes their leader and sets out to overthrow the Sheriff. The Sheriff also plans on going to war with Robin and raises taxes to pay Celtic warriors. He also plans to marry Maid Marrion, with hopes to father a son and heir.The film has some good action scenes but that's all it's got going. It suffers from average writing, lacklustre direction and some poor acting. Kevin Costner takes most of the flak because he has an American accent whilst playing an English character. Christain Slater is also a poor casting choice. Morgen Freeman is better, but his character really shouldn't have been in this film. Alan Rickman is famous for steeling the show and is in scenery-chewing mode here. There are also big errors of geography in this film, such going the long way round to Nottingham to Hearian's Wall and do it very quickly. Whether Robin Hood really existed is a matter of debate and the legends have changed a lot during its time, so I don't expect an accuracy retelling, but it does take a few too many liberties such as the use of Celts and witches. The film also doesn't know whether to be a light-hearted romp or a gritty dark adventure. Most of the time it's light-hearted, but at times it violence, the witch was a very horrible, scary character and there are moments likes a mass hanging scene including a child.I know this film has its fans, but I prefer a gritty realist approach to the film, not this version. You can watch it once and that's all you need.
The Indie Brit-film Kill List was considered one best films of 2011 by British critics: but audiences were more critical of this surreal horror-thriller.Jay (Neil Maskell) is a hit-man who has mental scars after a mission goes wrong in Kiev, resulting with him not being able to work for eight months. He is running out of money and keeps fighting with his wife (MyAnna Buring). But Jay's friend and partner, Gal (Michael Smiley), tells him of a job to kill three people: a seemingly simple job. But Jay is forced down a strange odyssey with this victims seemingly knowing about him and his past, leading to a surreal conclusion.The first hour of the Kill List was perfectly fine, the first 30 minutes setting up the troubled home situation and it could have worked as a short film and the killings were brutal, well shot and felt like we were going somewhere with the mystery of how people knew about Jay, whether it real or all in his mind. But the final third goes straight off the deep end when it takes a very surreal turn at the end, turning into The Wicker Man and the very ending was the same as A Serbian Film. There are potential themes about facing your past, how violence affect people's personally lives, how people can try to justify violence and how violence can be so self-destructive and lead to your overall corrupt and downfall. But all these ideas are undermined and underplayed when it turns into a barmy art house experiment.The acting by the main cast is strong throughout and director Ben Wheatley does bring a brutal sensibility. The violence is truly shocking as one character suffers from a horrific torture and Wheatley is not afraid to show the duration and the results: but unlike say Mel Gibson he does not take pleasure and joy out of the violence, it is meant to tough to watch. Wheatley knows have to craft a scene, get good performances out of his actor but he does need a new editor because there were some strange cuts that made the film look like DVD skips.There were decent ideas and Kill List was very well for a low budget film, but it felt more like a collection of events then a complete narrative and did not form its ideas and themes properly. The final third ruined the potential film had and it came off as very silly. The only acceptable explainable that it was final illustration of Jay's madness.
Ben Stiller is known for being a comic actor and an occasional director and with his latest film The Secret Life of Walter Mitty he takes more serious turn. Based on the short story of the same name about a man who daydreams Stiller gives us a very dreamlike looking world with his wide shots and bright, white colour pallet. Even the real life world had a surreal quality to it, particularly when Walter is travelling to find photographer Sean O'Connell (Sean Penn).Stiller gives a strong performance and he works well with Kristen WIgg, Shirley MacLaine and Kathryn Hahn. Some of the daydreaming sequences were better then others, some being a bit too long. The best being a sweet moment when Walter's love interest comes back and sings 'Major Tom'.Unfortunately the ending for the film does drag on as the film attempts to be a life affirming experience.This is film that has an excellent soundtrack.3/5
The original Kick-Ass was a cult-hit back 2010 and DVD sales ensured the sequel was allowed to be made. But with Matthew Vaughn moving onto different products, so Never Back Down's Jeff Wadlow took over the reins and had to do adapt a graphic novel that was critical panned for its controversial contend.Two years after the events of Kick-Ass Dave Lizewski (Aaron Taylor- Johnson) wants to get back into the superhero game and starts to train with Mindy Macready/Hit-Girl (Chloe Grace Moretz). Dave as Kick-Ass soon teams up with other costumed vigilantes he has inspired and lead by ex- mob enforcer turned Born Again Christian Colonel Stars and Stripes (Jim Carrey). But Hit-Girl does not want to return due to promise she made with her adopted father, Marcus (Morris Chestnut) to be a normal girl and deal with the school bitches. Even worst Chris D'Amico (Christopher Mintz-Plasse), wants revenge against Kick-Ass and plans to become the world's first supervillian, The Mother-F**kerThe change in creative team is notable. Wadlow does a solid job with recreating the visual style of the first film but he is not as strong as Vaughn. The action is shot more closely and shaky was used, but it nowhere near the worst case of its use because you can still tell what is happening. The humour was not up to scratch with the sequel looking the satirical edge. Part of the problem is now that Moretz is older the impact of her swearing and fighting ability is a little lost.The other major problem is Kick-Ass 2's takes longer then it needs to set up the pieces and get going. The original is a longer film but felt more tout and tighter then the sequel. Kick-Ass 2 is more willing to take detours with subplots and The Mother-F**ker takes his time creating his army and try and draw out Kick-Ass. The whole subplot involving with Hit-Girl having to deal with the bitchy girls should have been reduced and the joke with the vomit/diarrhoea stick should have been cut all together because it was too crude, out of style and just unfunny.This time Mintz-Plasse is the highlight of the film: he has the best jokes, he has the best lines and delivery and he was just entertaining as the villain. He has presence on screen in his gimp suit and attempting to be evil. Carrey, Donald Faison and John Leguizamo were fine new addition to the series, particularly Carrey as the surprisingly hard vigilante who uses violence and acts as a good leader of the group. The best of the new cast was bodybuilder Olga Kurkulina who has obvious has physical presence, but also has menace with her few words and is a one woman army as she takes on a destroys a small army of cops.Moretz is of course a talented actress and she does her best with the material, but she is wasted with the mean girls storyline and it was actually triumphant when she is back in action. Taylor-Johnson too is solid, again and he works well with Moretz. But a plot hole that is never addressed is Hit-Girl is now 15 when in the first film she is 11 and Kick-Ass is a high school senior with his friends.The graphic novel Kick-Ass 2 is very controversial, featuring brutal violence for the sake of it and a gang rape sequence. Wadlow smartly cuts these elements, knowing they would not translate to film: the gang rape sequence was highly criticised by comic book fans and was only in the material for shock value.There has been a duel reaction to Kick-Ass 2, fanboys love the film and mainstream film critics hate it. Kick-Ass 2 is really in the middle of these two outcomes. It is a solid enough film that has some decent action and comedy, but it is not as fresh, well written or directed as the first film.6.5/10
Street Fighter was one of the first computer games to be made into movie and help start the trend that computer games don't make good films. Street Fighter is at best an expensive B-Movie and few people deny that it's a bad film. However at the same time they is something strangely compelling when watching film.The story of the film is an international peace-keeping force is sent to a fictional country in South-East Asia. This force is led by Colonel William Guile (Jean-Claude Van Damme (a bad Beligan actor playing an American)). His mission is to help stabilise the nation after the overthrow of the director M. Bison. Bison has an evil plan to regain power of the country and then world dominion. He kidnaps civilians and he demands $20 Million and all the Allied Nations forces to leave the country in 2 days or he would start killing them. Instead of giving in, Guile leads his forces to fight back against the villain, like the American hero that he is. Ryo and Ken are involved as well, but they are con-men in this film, who are involved in the underground fighting scene before getting involved with Bison. Blanka is also in this film as a part of Bison's evil plan, where he hopes to make to super-soldiers that would help him on his quest.There are a lot of problems with this film: it is poorly written and directed. They is so much going on that it easy to get lost and lose interest: sometimes less is more when it comes to film-making. The acting is terrible, the action is sub-par, only Van Damme is any good at fighting. It also has too many characters from the game, which ends ups people not caring for some of them. It would have been easier to just have a few of the major characters from the game and focus on them. As well the film is disloyal to some of the game's characters, especially Ryu and Ken, who were not lovable rogues but good guys in the game. Balrog was also made into a good guy, when in the game he was bad game. The filmmakers also seem to be on a mission to have as many nationalists as possible and be a politically correct as possible. It adds to a scene of unintentional humour. The film is funny but for the wrong reasons. It is like a car crash, you know you shouldn't watch it but you can't help it.
George Lucas is most famous for making the Star Wars trilogies and producing the Indiana Jones series. But between his first sci-fi film THX-1138 and his big hit Star Wars, Lucas made a comedy film (excluding the Star Wars prequel), American Graffiti which was nominated for a number of Academy Awards.Set in the early 60s, American Graffiti tells the story of four friends before they go their separate ways on summer night. They is Curt (Richard Dreyfuss) who is having doubts about going to university on the other side of the country who is searching for a blond beauty driving a white Thunderbird and ends up getting mixed up with some greasers. Steve (Ron Howard) is also going to university and in the middle of an on-off relationship with his girlfriend Laurie (Cindy Williams), starting with him breaking up with her at the start of the film. John (Paul Le Mat) is a hot-rod racer who accident picks up a young girl, Carol (Mackenzie Phillips) and ends up getting challenged by a rival racer (Harrison Ford). And finally there is Terry the Toad (Charles Martin Smith), who is given a car by Steve and ends up trying to impress a attractive young woman, Debbie (Candy Clark), simply by lying about everything about himself.American Graffiti is considered one of the great car films, showing iconic classic cars in all their glory. There is also a really good soundtrack of late 50s and 60s song, fitting for the film.It is a film that shows an idealistic version of the 60s, set in a white, wealthy, middle-class small town where teenagers have nice expensive cars, have no really issues and any delinquency they get up to is minor and tame. The late 50s and 60s was a period of post war affluent in America: people were becoming wealthier and having more disposable cash. It was also a period where teenager culture grew and divided childhood and adulthood.The film itself is really a series of a events rather then a narrative structure, they is no real aim in the film. Curt is possibly the closest thing we got to a main character who is has a real decision either go to university on the other side of America or stay, be safe and find a girl. Steve is a jerk, he breaks up with his girlfriend because he wants to screw around at university and then in a later scene pressures her into having sex. John is your typical bad-boy with a heart of gold: he is annoyed with Carol at first but he slowly likes her and feels sorry for her. And Terry is your typical movie nerd, who is bullied, used and abused and is socially awkward: but he is optimist and wants to get with a pretty (properly the first girl who has shown any interest). John and Terry are the funniest characters in the film: they have the funniest lines and the funnier scenarios. Terry particularly is in a scenario many young men have been in, trying to impress a young girl and buying alcohol underage. One of the funniest jokes was expertly parodied by The Simpsons.I do have to question this world the characters live, where it is okay for men to pick up young girls in their cars, a girl allows her younger sister to go with a much other man, a man obviously looking for a girl to have sex with and these teenagers are out all night and their parents do not question it? I am also surprised that American Graffiti has a PG rating because there is a bit of swearing, but I assume this was because the PG-13 and 12 ratings were created.George Lucas was able to make a fast paced film after a slow start. The driving scenes are well done, Lucas is a man who knows how to make action sequence. The jokes and humour is actually good and some of the issues are try to life. This is also the best dialogue Lucas has achieved, but that is possibly because he was not the only writer for the film. He knows how to create an atmosphere and despite the night setting, he visuals are strong: Lucas knew how to use the headlights and neon lights of the setting and you can still tell what is happening, compared to some more modern films.Overall, it is an enjoyable film and it is interesting to see Lucas making a more grounded film.
1984's Gremlins is a renounced cult classic of a film, having fans the world over and after a six year break director Joe Dante returned to the series, making a much more comic and surreal sequel.After the events of the first film Billy (Zach Galligan) and Kate (Phoebe Cates) have moved to New York City, working for Clamp Enterprises, Billy as a concept artist and Kate as a tour guide. Clamp Enterprises is a company with its fingers in many pies, including cable television and genetic engineering. Billy finds Gizmo in the lab having been captured after his owner in Chinatown dies. But soon more gremlins are created and run havoc and in the genetic lab the research allows the gremlins new abilities.Gremlins 2: The New Batch is very anarchical film, being very like a live action cartoon and breaks the fourth wall many times. Dante made a very self aware film being surreal with moments like film critic Leonard Martin reviewing the first film, the gremlins interrupting the film and a cameo from Hulk Hogan. Gremlins 2 is also self-referential, such as when Kate is about to tell another sad story of life, but told she hasn't got time to tell it.Gremlins 2 is much lighter in tone to its predecessor, filled with parodies of other films, particularly Rambo 2 and B-Movies. There is also satirise about the controlling, conformist world of this conglomerate, stamping out all individuality and the security team constantly watching for any infringement of their strict rules. The media is attacked and they are constantly jokes in the background, from the failed technology (reminiscent to Billy's dad's failed inventions) and announcements made to the building.Christopher Lee clearly enjoyed his role as the mad scientist who relished his work and gleeful when he has samples of diseases, be very much a B-Movie character he was known for playing. John Glover too was fun as the eccentric billionaire who is enthusiastic and naive and not an evil tycoon.Gremlins 2: The New Batch is a truly meta sequel, a post-modern deconstruction of sequels which had a really bad name at the time of when it was made. It is self-reference and breaks the fourth wall and it is easy this film can divide people into camps either loving or hating it. It is a funny film for the most part.
My God this film is stupid, I mean on the edges of braindead. It is plot holes which you could drive a bus through. Tom Hanks and Ron Howard should really known better to return to this series.The plot of this film goes like this. The Pope has just died and the Catholic Church need to elect a new leader. But here's the problem: a old enemy has emerged, the Illuminati. They have kidnapped the four preferitis (the leading candidates for the papacy) and have stolen a case of anti-matter. They plan to kill a Cardinal every hour till midnight, and bomb the Vactican in an explosion of light. The Catholic Church are determined to continue the election despite threat, and call in help from Havard symbolist Robert Langdon (Tom Hanks) and CERN scientist Vittoria Vetra (Ayelet Zurer). They work with the head of the Vatican police led by Commander Richter (Stellan Skarsgård), and a liberal priest Camerlengo Patrick McKenna (Ewan McGregor), who wants to open up the church. It becomes a race against time to save the cardinals and prevent Vatican City with thousands of innocent people in St. Peter's Square getting blown up.Angels & Demons is much better then the Da Vinci Code, but having a STD would be better then the Da Vinci Code. Angels & Demons was Dan Brown's first Robert Langdon book, but since the Da Vinci Code was a massive success it became a film first. Therefore Angels & Demons became a sequel to the monster success of the first film. What the main problem with Angels & Demons is the source material. I have read the Da Vinci Code, and I can safety say its one of the worst novels I have ever read. I don't mind the fact the novel was critical of the Catholic Church (normally I enjoy being critical of organised religion), and the book had a good premise, that Jesus had married and had children and his bloodline survives in the modern age. But Dan Brown is a poor writer, there is no characterisation, Robert Langdon is too smart (but only reveals his knowledge at certain points). Brown likes to show how much research he had done given the reader too much information we don't care about, and he still gets the facts wrong. Brown became a writer because he thought he could write a better novel then The Doomsday Conspiracy, and I properly could write better novel then Dan Brown. Whilst the story of the Da Vinci Code might have worked for some people in a book, it definitely didn't work in a film. It was long, drawn out and boring. At least with Angels & Demons the film is shorter, more action packed, and there is more a threat/race against time for the audience to get excited about. But there are still a lot of problems. As mentioned their are plot holes. The biggest being there is a powerful bomb hidden under Rome, and I'm sure the Italian police and military would evaluate the city and use their intelligence services to find the bomb and the Cardinals. The other is why would the Illuminati go through all this effort if they was a trail of evidence behind them. It makes no sense. Why not mix it up a bit. Al-Qaida or the IRA wouldn't operate like that. The twist at the end was also not need and Dan Brown does the same thing in The Da Vinci Code: that trick gets old if not done well. There are also stupid scenes like last action scenes which are so silly. There also the unrealistic element in the film of the police showing up to sense of a dead Cardinal a minute too late. The acts a travelogue for Rome, much like the Da Vinci Code was for Paris and London. I bet Rome's Tourism Board are happy.Acting wise no one stands out for good reason, but that's because of the lack of material to work with. The only I could say who comes out with any merit is Pierfrancesco Favino who plays a senior police officer. Ayelet Zurer disappears off the screen because of the lack of depth she has. And I'm sure everyone knows about Ewan McGregor's poor attempt of an Irish accent: it would have been easier to cast an Irish actor like Michael Fassbender.Ron Howard is a great example of a hit-and-miss director. He can do really good films like Frost/Nixon, Cinderella Man and A Beautiful Mind, but also weak films like the Da Vinci Code, Far and Away and How the Grinch Stole Christmas. He tries his best, but he is not an action director, he is a good drama director. His action scenes were lackluster. As well Howard also doesn't have a lot to work with behind the camera, and struggles to begin real drama or tension to the film.I think the bare bones of the story, an old threat to the church returns could have worked as a really good thriller or horror film, but not as a action film. It could have been handled with a lot more intelligence with better writing, but of course Dan Brown can't write.It's not worth watching.
Kagemusha is not as well know as some of Kurosawa's other films, but it is still excellent viewing and shows that he was Japan's best film director. It is a strong story with American financial backing, yet still a very Japanese film.Kagemusha is a Japanese word meaning both Shadow Warrior or the Double: this tell you a lot about the plot before you start. The film starts with the recruitment of a kagemusha to a leading Japanese warlord. He was a theft who was about to be cruifixed when the brother, Nobukado, of the warlord saves him and trains him to be like Lord Shingen. It then gives you a brief synopsis of the situation in Japan in 1573, where three warring clans were verging for power and trying to rule of the whole of the nation. Lord Shingen's factor was the strongest and was in the middle of siege of Kyoto, the capital at the time. But during the siege Shingen is fatally shot and his dying wish was to retreat, forget the dream of ruling Japan and hide his death from the public for three years. This is when the Kagemusha is brought into play, but even he doesn't know that Shingen had died. He only finds out when he goes back to his old ways. But he still offers himself, to help protect the domain. When they return to Shingen's castle the Kagemusha has to fool the people, and even Shingen's grandson and mistresses. Nobukado has to cover for the Kagemusha saying he suffered an illness and teaches him how the court works and act like the dead warlord. In the middle of this the rival factors attack the domain, wondering what was happening in the court because they were confused about whether Shingen was dead or not and why his army retreated. There are also enemies within the court with Katsuyori, Shingen's son, who was no longer the heir, and was replaced by Shingen's grandson. He still lives under his father's shadow and wants to prove himself. He is also not happy that he has to call a theft father.The basic plot isn't new, but Kurosawa has the great ability of making it well. It has a strong script behind it with some excellent dialogue, it doesn't not matter that it's in Japanese. The acting is superb, especially from Tatsuya Nakadai who played Shingen/Kagemusha. They was also an interesting look at the court of a Japanese warlord and the politics of the time. The power-plays were interesting and it added some complexities to the plot. Kurosawa knows how to do it. Kurosawa is also an excellent visual director and they were some truly great shots. One shot that I really liked was the army marching during the sunset and all you get to see is the silhouettes of the soldiers. They are some nice shots as well in the Japanese mountains, showing the beauty, but also the harness of terrain. My only real criticism is that the war scene could have been better. They was well done, and the troops did look authentic, but at times it was a little hard to follow (espeically the night scenes) and the film could have shown more. But they are some gems within those scenes.I recommend this film.
After the success of the first Transformers movies a sequel was bound to happen. The Transformers movie was basically a set up for the first sequels. Here we get another CGI bombastic fest by Michael Bay.Set 2 years after the first Transformers film, a multi-national military team, NEST has been created and with the Autobots hunt down Decepticons. After a mission in Shanghai Demolishor warns that the Fallen was coming to Earth. In America Sam Witwicky (Shia LaBeouf) is preparing to go to an East Coast University. Which packing he finds a piece of the AllSpark and by touching it he starts to have images in his head. At the University the sexy Alice (Isabel Lucas) is attached to Sam, who is still loyal to Michaella (Megan Fox). Unknown to Sam, Alice is a Decepticon spy.In the Decepticon camp, they plan to get the reminding bit of the AllSpark and use it to resurrect Megatron. By doing this Megatron serves the Fallen who a plan to make more followers by stealing the energy of the Sun and thereby killing Earth. After the Decepticons make their present known on Earth and demand that the people of Earth give up Sam. Sam and Michaella become fugitives and with the help of the Autobots set out to save the world once again.Let's start with the good aspects (or what there are of them) of the film. First the CGI and action is of a high standard and they are fine action sequences, especially with everyone's favourite Transformer, Optimus Prime in the forest. Michael Bay has a flair for this type of film and he also uses less shaky cam then in the previous film. I also enjoy the military aspect of the film and the film should have shown more of this. There are also some fan favourite put into the film, like Soundwave and Ravage. The Fallen is a good villain and Megatron and Starscream have bigger roles, and it is good to see their rivalry on screen. Plus Megan Fox and Isabel Lucas are hot.Now the bad: the film is way too long. Many of the scenes with Sam, Michaella and Sam's parents were not needed and dragged the film out. The audience don't really care, all we want to see is robots beating the hell out of each other. The story is paper thin and their should have been more effort in the script. The attempts at comedy were poor and the creations of the characters Mudflap and Skip is the worst in the world. They have been criticised for being racist stereotypes (which they are), but the main problem was they are really, REALLY annoying and I was rousing for the Decepticons to kill them. They attempts at comedy was terrible and they were on the screen for way to long; the fans care about characters like Optimus, Bumblebee, Ratchet and Ironside, not the crappy Twins. The film also has a number of plot holes: one great example is that in Transformers Las Vegas was a battleground for giant robots and the American military, and yet the filmmakers expert us to believe the American government was able to cover it up?The filmmakers should have accepted Transformers for what it was, robots fighting each other, and just made it a fun 2 hour action film. At least the first film had some heart in it.A poor blockbuster.
From the strange mind of David Cronenberg is Scanners, his sci-fi horror thriller that has earned a massive cult following since its release in 1981 and one of the most famous Canadian films ever made.In the world there are people with psychic abilities, Scanners. They can be read minds, control people's thoughts and actions and if need be can people other Scanners. But Scanners are also social misfits, including Cameron Vale (Stephen Lack), a homeless man who lives of the fringes of society and ends up kidnapped by a weapons company, ConSec. But one man has declared war on ConSec, Darryl Revok (Michael Ironside), a powerful Scanner who is killing other Scanners who refuses to serve him. Dr. Ruth (Patrick McGoohan) from ConSec recruits Vale to infiltrate Revok's organisation.Scanners can be seen as a early, dark superhero film with a man who has unusual abilities having to learn how to use them and an industrial espionage thriller. Cronenberg does throw a lot of ideas and concepts but it still easy enough as he delivers a fast paced, fun film, filled with action and gore. The special effects and make up were great and inventive when the Scanners battle each other. It is an adult film, being a very violence affair and Cronenberg made sure that the effects of Scanner battles were gruesome and sometimes creepy, being able to manipulate people to kill themselves about their own survival instincts. The look and tone is very similar to other films from the period, particularly John Carpenter films, filled with action, thought and actual love for the material. The music by Howard Shore (best know for his work on Lord of the Rings) compliment the actions on the screen as characters use their powers, using a synthesiser as it builds up and reminded me personally of the theme of A Clockwork Orange.Whilst there are a lot of good elements in Scanners and Cronenberg does a lot with a small budget, there are some problems. The biggest is Lack's performance because he was so stiff and wooden. I am sure he was trying but he is not a naturally gifted actor. There are also problems with the writing, but that is understandable because the production history was troubled only had a short amount of time to write the script. But the big issue is if Revok is recruiting Scanners and killing them if the refuse to join him but only sends people with guns after Vale.Scanners is a very interesting and entertaining film and it is a product of time.
Politics has often been excellent source of material for comedy, whether it's stand-up comedy, sketch shows like 2DTV and Dead Ringers, panel shows like Have I Got News for You and Mock the Week, TV shows like to the Simpsons and Yes Minster and films from Wag the Dog and Thank you for Smoking. Few come finer then In the Loop, a film based on the TV series The Think of It, and it's creator takes a massive swipe against the run-up to the Iraq War.In the Loop is a transatlantic story set in London and Washington D.C.. The American government is running up towards a war in the Middle-East. In London the International Development Security Simon Foster (Tom Hollander) accident said in a radio interview that war was 'unforeseeable'. Despite being warned by the Prime Minister's Director of Communication Malcolm Tucker (Peter Capaldi (basically Alastair Campbell on steroids)) to tow the line, Forster quotes live on Sky News that we have to 'climb the mountain of conflict', making himself look like a dove and a hawk. In Washington, two doves, one within the State Department Karen Clarke (Mimi Kennedy) and Lt. General Miller (James Gandolfini), hope to use Forster to put forward their own case against the war, despite Foster being completely hopeless and those two having the intelligence their needed in front of them. On the other side is another senior member of the State Department, Linton Barwick (David Rasche), a hawk who is pushing the case for war and would do everything he can to ensure it happens. He recruits Tucker to sweep aside any opposition to the war, and he uses all his aggressive tricks to ensure it. In the middle of this was Toby Wright (Chris Addison), Foster's new adviser, and Liza Weld (Anna Chlumsky), one of Clarke's closest asides. Both are fighting to save their careers whilst working for their bosses.Armando Iannucci, one of the creators of The Thick of It, takes the reigns directing In The Loop. He uses hand-held cameras to give the film a documentary style, making the film feel very real, like you are watching the inner working of government. It was very much like The Office, with it humour being very nature and down-to-earth. This is a film that is aimed for an intelligence, political aware audience. As well as the clear influence of The Office and other mock-documentary style films, Dr. Strangelove, a classic dark-comedy and satire of the Cold War. Both were films that were a comedy of errors and a biting criticism of the people they were lampooning. Iannucci is very cynical about politicians and civil services: all were more concerned about their self interest and career then any moral or ideological arguments. This is however possibility a fairly accurate of some people in politics, people who are only interesting in having power, regardless party political lines. This is also a more realistic take on how the run-up towards the Iraq War, with the hawks secretly forming committees for their own yes-men and keeping information to themselves. This was a better portrayal to say Paul Greengrass' Green Zone which was an unrealistic view that America faked all intelligence.There is good cast in the film. Peter Capaldi was brilliant as the foul mouth spin-doctor and was what Alastair Campbell was really like: a nasty piece of work, a bully who was always on the offensive, even when New Labour was at the high of their powers. James Gandolfini is a fantastic actor who shows his dead-pan comic skills. David Rasche was effective as a Paul Wolfowitz style character, a Machiavellian character. Other actors like Tom Hollander, Chris Addison, Anna Chlumsky, Mimi Kennedy, Paul Higgins and Zach Woods all show their comic skills.The only little criticism of In the Loop is the subplot involving on of Foster's constituents complaining about a wall, which wasn't as funny as the rest of the film and felt forced and underwritten. But it does show a trust that some constituents are nutters and there are people are who think politicians and political party want to hear their wacky ideas.An extremely funny film.
Stanley Kubrick is easily recognised as one of the greatest directors ever to have lived and he has made some of the greatest films ever made, like Paths of Glory, Dr. Strangelove, 2001: A Space Odyssey, A Clockwork Orange and Full Metal Jacket. He is easily my favourite director of all time. But Kubrick was ashamed of his first film, Fear and Desire and he set out to buy as many copies possible to prevent people seeing it. It is a very hard to find.Four soldiers, Mac (Frank Silvera), Lt. Corby (Kenneth Harp), Sidney (Paul Mazursky) and Fletcher (Stephen Coit) are cause six miles behind enemy lines after their plane is shot down. They set out to get back to their own side with a simple plan: but things keep going array, like lack of weapons, run ins with peasant girls and the prospect of killing a general.Kubrick was embarrassed by his first feature, saying it was an amateurish attempt. I sadly have to agree with him: Fear and Desire did feel like a student film. Whilst there was plenty of ambition behind it, it sadly does not live up to the promise. The film suffers from some poor acting and weak dialogue. Kubrick and his screenwriter Howard Sackler do attempt to bring in wider themes about war, like the general morality of war, the point about assassination, the whole hopeless situation. But Kubrick has looked at war much better at in Paths of Glory and Full Metal Jacket. It was also highly unbelievable how the character Sidney suddenly looses his mind. There were some script problems throughout.But it's not all doom and gloom. There are still moments of Kubrickian flair like how the raid on the enemy soldiers' outpost with a claustrophobic feel, the atmospheric end scene in the fog and the use of the muse girl played by Virginia Leith. Whilst her scenes were poorly handled because of the way Sidney lost his mind, they would have been potential if the Sidney character was made out to be a lot nastier or could have been more brutal if the film was made in the 60s or afterwards. But it was a scene that reminded of Casualties of War, made later on.Kubrick also avoided make the film about any particular war with his attempt to focus on the characters and the attempts to show the affects of conflict. The 4 soldiers and enemy troops were neither good or bad, just men with later film directors attempt to do: films like Lebanon, A Bridge too Far and Zulu. The closest war that the film reflects is the Second World War, with the style of conflict, the weapons and dress of the soldiers. If you had to guess then the 4 soldiers were America, whilst the enemy were German, but Kubrick does not focus on who's fighting or the nations or ideologies behind them.Overall, Fear and Desire is a very flawed film and it saddens me to say this was Kubrick's weakest film. But there are still moments to show the oncoming genies that was to follow.
I have nothing but praise for the West Wing. As a self-confide politics nut this programme easily appealed to me. It had a fantastic cast, including Martin Sheen who is one of my favourite actors, and the production values could easily match most movies being made. Programmes like the West Wing are a sign American Television can challenge modern cinema.As already mention the programme has a brilliant cast, and has some of America's best. As well as Martin Sheen, they are actors such as Bradley Whitmore, John Spencer, Allison Janney and the programme did reboot Rob Lowe's career. The programme has also had some excellent guest stars, such as Glenn Close, Christian Slater and Mary-Louise Parker.The drama offered in the programme is fantastic, you can see how American government works and how deals are made a broken. It is very intellectual and never attempt to dumb down. It is also has moments of comedy and can be very lighthearted which is a nice and refreshing, compared to say 24 which is never lighthearted. As the programme progressed you can also how the relationship and change and evolute.The West Wing also tackles contemporary issues, ranging from abortion, taxation, terrorism, torture etc. The West Wing is obviously political, but it still gives Republicans a fair say and show how they can argue their case. It does show good Republicans and bad Democratic, as well as Dogmatic Republicans and intelligent Democrats. My personal view in American politics is that America needs a Democratic president and I totally support Barack Obama. I also have a hatred for George W. Bush and his team.The programme also takes the most realistic approach possible, compared to 24, which can be very silly. Many political experts felt that the programme was true to real live and you can see who characters are based on, for example President Barrett was base on Bill Clinton and JFK, whilst Sam Seaborn was based on George Steponotplis. It was also very useful to me because it helped me understand American politics more and was useful during my Politics A-Level.I think it was a shame that this programme had to end and I hope that Hollywood can make more programmes of this quality.
Alan Partridge is an ever popular stable of comedy on British television, appearing on The Day Today and his own TV show I'm Alan Partridge. Now he made the jump to the big screen to much fan fare by fans and critics.In the world of Alan Partridge North Norfolk Digital Radio Station has been brought by a media conglomerate who have rename the station Shapes and plan to target a younger audience. Alan Partridge (Steve Coogan) and his friend Pat Farrell (Colm Meaney) are both apart of the old guard and Pat is worried his job is on the line. But when Alan speaks to the new owners he sells out his first so he can keep his own job. Upset, Pat goes into radio station with a shotgun and creates a hostage situation. Alan Partridge is the only man Pat is willing to talk to and Alan reluctantly agrees to help. But with the media attention the siege receives Alan Partridge quickly spots an opportunity.Alan Partridge: Alpha Papa is a funny film that goes get progressively more comic: but it is not the comedy classic many British critics have been praising it to be. This type of action could lead to audience members to be underwhelmed, like me. There are some very funny moments, particularly a daydream sequence, the creation of a jingle and when Alan Partridge tries to break back into the siege. Alan Partridge: Alpha Papa has on the surface a seemingly gentle style of comedy but when you scratch the surface and get more into the film the dialogue is more risqué and edgy. It is film that complemented by Steve Coogan's performance and his interactions with his fellow cast members. It was a part that defines his career and he makes it his own.A problem that many TV adaptations suffer is they either take their characters out of their natural home and seemingly be a travelogue or the characters loses it charm or play it too safe and be no more then an extended episode. The writers and director for Alpha Papa have found the sweet spot of keeping the setting of the series but making the film adventure cinematic by the use of the siege, upping the stakes.Alan Partridge: Alpha Papa also introduces a satirical element about local media, how even local radio stations are being taken over by media empires, taking away their local flavour and making themselves as marketable as possible. There is a particular dig at Radio One, Nick Grimshaw style radio shows that pander to the youth market.Alan Partridge: Alpha Papa is a solid British comedy that has its moments and it will please fans of the character. But due to high critical reaction this was a film has received I ended up feeling underwhelmed and felt that The World's End was the better British comedy.
Before The Lego Movie was released it was easy scoff at the idea and dismiss the film before its release. But the reviews have offered near universal praise from critics and audiences, making a film that is fun and funny and more intelligence then it had any right to be. 21 Jump Street writers/directors Phil Lord and Christopher Miller take the clichéd mistaken messiah storyline by making The Lego Movie more about conformity, individuality and creatively and takes a Plato's Allegory of the Cave approach as the main character lives a sheltered, limited experience and sees the world for what it really is. The Lego Movie is filled with jokes and visuals gags that both adults and children can enjoy as the directors are inventive with their set-pieces and designs. There is excellent voice from the likes of Chris Pratt and Elizabeth Banks. Will Arnett as Batman was comedy gold, playing on the popularity of the character.
In 2010 the spy action-comedy RED about a group of retired spies being targeted by the CIA was sleeper hit and was enjoyed by critics and audiences alike. A sequel was commissioned and we got an enjoyable enough continuation, even if critics did not like it.Ex-CIA agent Frank Moses (Bruce Willis) and his girlfriend Sarah Ross (Mary-Louise Parker) are living a quiet suburban life, even if Sarah is bored by it. After their friend Marvin (John Malkovich) fakes his own death, Frank ends up incarnated he becomes the target of Jack Horton (Neal McDonough), an American black-ops officer who has Carte Blanche to do anything he wants. Frank and Marvin soon finds out a document about a join British-American operation, Nightshade, a plot to smuggle a nuclear weapon into Moscow has been leaked onto Wikileaks and seen Frank, Marvin and Sarah are forced onto a mission around London, Paris and Moscow. On their tails is Horton, Han Cho-Bai (Byung-hun Lee), the world's best assassin and a Russian agent, Katya (Catherine Zeta-Jones) who easily changes sides.RED 2 is not as good as the original film, but it is enjoyable and does not deserve some of the negative reaction it has received. RED 2 does go through some of the plot points of the first film and this is a sequel that feels it needs to be bigger, using a more international plot. RED 2 continues what works with the first film, Willis being a badass, Mirren doing awesome things with guns and Malkovich being wacky (but at least he is competent). The series also sees two good new additions, Zeta-Jones and Lee, thought Lee was underused.One area of improvement is the villain. A problem with RED was the main villain played by Richard Dreyfuss was basically a very unsubtle Dick Cheney like character. Anthony Hopkins was an upgrade. The stakes were higher, his character was much more eccentric and he had much better motivation. Karl Urban does not return to the series, so McDonough came in his place. Urban had a better character because he was a man simply doing his job, but McDonough does make up for it when he is in full scumbag mode and Lee does offer a physical threat.RED had a very simple premise of an old skool CIA agent being targeted for assassination by his old agency, leading him to show the new guys a lesson. RED 2 expands with many more factions at play, a black ops division of the American Intelligence system, MI6, the Russians and a freelance assassin. At times the film does struggle to give these characters the screen time they deserved, particularly Lee who was underused and it would have been better if he worked closer to the Americans. This is also a film that sees a number of potential international incidents that would throw the world into chaos if any of this stuff really did happen.Like the original RED, RED 2 is a full out and out comedy, and offers more chuckles then full laughs. It is the action where RED 2 wins out, allowing Willis to do what he does best and we get shoot-outs, car chases and fist fights. There is a comic twist to the car chase in Paris as we get two cars chasing the same vehicle in Paris, even having a double reference of For Your Eyes Only and The Bourne Identity. There are also references to Mission Impossible III and Mission Impossible: Ghost Protocol, even the plot of RED 2 has some similarities to MIGP. RED 2 does have solid shoot outs and car chases, but the fist fights are little too over edited.Dean Parisot of Galaxy Quest fame takes over the directing duties from Robert Schwentke. Parisot is a strong replacement, he keeps RED 2 going at a fast pace even with the longer running time and keeps the same look of the first films, whilst being his own moments of flair, such as the use of comic book art.RED 2 is a fun ride of a film and a solid continuation of a good predecessor. It delivers what you want, good action, Bruce Willis being Bruce Willis and offering us a light hearted romp. But I cannot see there being much room for a second sequel.
The Holocaust was of course one of the darkest hours, an event where people were rounded up and killed for their race, religion or political beliefs. This was an event that has influenced modern Western Culture, helping to dismantle the ideas of racism and empire, though obviously those issues still exist. There have been some great films about the Holocaust such as Schindler's List, The Pianist, Sophie's Choice and Conspiracy. The Boy in the Striped Pyjamas can join them.Bruno (Asa Butterfield) was eight-year-old boy living happily with in Berlin during the Second World War. His father (David Thewlis) a senior SS Officer get a promotion and his family, mum (Vera Farmiga) and older sister Gretel (Amber Beattie) move to the countryside. Bruno quickly feels lonely, with no friends and his family placing restrictions on him, like not going to the strange 'farm' where people are only wearing 'pyjamas'. But Bruno defies his parents orders and goes to farm where he meets Shmuel (Jack Scanlon), a Jewish boy from a Concentration Camp. The two become friends and through the innocent eyes of a child the evils of Nazism are explored and challenged.The whole point of The Boy in the Striped Pyjamas is tell a story about the Holocaust through the eyes of a child. A young child would not have an concept of prejudicing someone and can question the groundless basis for these views. This could have been a story that could have worked period, such as Apartheid South Africa, the Deep South of America, Greek and Turkish relations in Cyprus, Israelis and Palestinians, etc. The director Mark Herman handles this subject with great skill and really does capture the mind of a child brilliantly. As well the Holocaust which focuses on the children on both sides of the divide, Herman takes care to show other elements of Nazism, such as the education which was another wing of propaganda to indoctrinate the youth. This was shown with Gretel who became more hardcore about believing in the ideologies and shows the lengths individuals and dictatorships would go to pass on their beliefs. But I'm sure this theme and other sub-plots were developed more in the novel then it was in the film Herman shows he understands the subject and the period. There was great set-designs and show the different ideologies with a high-ranking Nazi family. He was obviously a talented director.Herman also wrote a brilliant screenplay and with top-notch acting the film set out to show three dimensional. It could have been really easy to show the father to be a monster but it took the more braver and realistic move to show that he was a loving father to his children, yet was committing the most unspeakable evil for his work. A harsh junior officer played by Rupert Friend was given more reason why he was a horrible person to the Jews: he was also someone wanted to be good with the children. Butterfield and Scanlon are both excellent in their roles and are heart-breaking and compelling performances. Beattie and Thewlis too were very good. Farmiga at first seemed a bit too glamorous as the moment, but she too showed her range as an actress and offer a decent English accent.It was a bold effort to make the film more accessible to children, but it is very hard-hitting about the subject. It should only be watched by children around 10-year-old plus. This is a brilliant film, one of the best of 2008.
Since the success of films like Harry Potter and Twilight, film studios have been looking for the next young adult book series to adapt. With five books already out and a sixth on the way, The Mortal Instruments is latest series to diving into a cinematic adaptation, being more fantasy, than supernatural romance.Clary Fray (Lily Collins) is a seemingly normal New York teenager, who lives with her artistic single mother, Jocelyn (Lena Headey). Her best friend, Simon (Richard Sheehan), has a crush for the young woman, but she sees him more as a brother. Clary leads a normal life, but starts to draw a strange symbol, that leads to changes in her life. She begins to see it everywhere, leading her and Simon to a nightclub where she sees people, no one else can. Soon, Clary's mother is kidnapped and her only ally is Jace (Jamie Campbell Bower), a Shadowhunter, a half-angel, half- human creature, who hunts demons. Clary is thrust into a strange world of demons, vampires, witches, warlocks and werewolves and has to open up her own suppressed memories as an evil Shadowhunter. Valentine (Jonathan Rhys Meyers) is looking for the lost Mortal Cup that can create more Shadowhunters.To get the Twilight comparisons out of the way, yes there is a love triangle and a teenage girl has a romance with a supernatural creature. But, The Mortal Instruments: City of Bones borrows much more from the Harry Potter, having a world within world, many mystical creatures, having a term to describe humans and focuses on a young character who could be more powerful then she realises and discovers her real past. The character of Alec (Kevin Zegers) is the Rosalie of the film, having animosity to our major character.Continuing with Twilight comparisons, Clary is dependence on the other characters, but that is more due to the fact she is in a strange world and the Shadowhunters are much more experience. But, Clary is still resourceful, asks the right questions and is a go-getter who wants to get stuck in with the adventure.The Mortal Instruments: City of Bones is a standard fantasy adventure that, as already mentioned, borrows highly from Harry Potter. This is a film that has many predictable plot points, that we've seen many times before. This is a film that does follow The Hero With A Thousand Faces formula, but also makes you dive head first into its world and mythology, where other series would be much more gradual when bringing you into their worlds.Harald Zwart of Agent Cody Banks and The Karate Kid (2010) fame took on the directing duties and he makes a darker film to his previous efforts. Zwart brings in Gothic visuals throughout the film, from the use of a catacomb that is run by creatures with sewed up mouths and the Shadowhunter's being like a church: but Institute's interior looks very much like Hogwarts. There are some gruesome moments (even for the PG-13 rating) involving the demon dog and the extra limbs demons can grow. But despite all this, death is kept to a minimum.While The Mortal Instruments: City of Bones does have Judo-Christian iconography with its use of angel statutes and paintings, this is a film that actually side-steps being be a Christian, saying all religions are valid and avoids any mention of God or the afterlife.The acting for the most part is decent enough, though the dialogue is predictable and a little clichéd at times. We do get to see Clary transform from a regular teenager to a Shadowhunter wearing a short dresses, a leather jacket and thigh high boots. While Campbell Bower brings a sardonic wit to Jace and there is strange aspect that all the Shadowhunters speak with English accents whilst the werewolves are Irish. Actors like Headey and Jared Harris do offer a little gravitas to proceedings but there are really extended cameos with the young actors being front and centre.Zwart did show his action credentials when he directed The Karate Kid; but he seem to regress for his follow up film. The action sequences are for the most part fairly bland, typical fare. But Jemima West's Isabelle has some moments with a whip and looking really bad-ass when she has a flamethrower. Hell, give her a film.The special effects are nothing to write home about. There are not bad, but due to the limited budget the digital looked obvious at times, particularly the werewolves. Yet, the demons near the end of the film does have a cool, glowing effort and have a similar look to Kronos' minions in Wrath of the Titans.The Mortal Instruments: City of Bones has been have a torrid time with mainstream critics, but in all honesty, it is a perfectly serviceable fantasy adventure that is better to the Twilight series it has been compared to and will please fans of the novels.Please visit www.entertainmentfuse.com
The Scream series became a popular series with critics and audience due to the fact it was a self-aware slasher film that knew the clichés of the genres whilst still working as a slasher film. But the third film of the series is considered the weak link of the franchise.After the events of the Woodsboro and Windsor College, a third film is being made in Hollywood to complete a trilogy. But a new killer is stalking has donned the Ghostface mark, targeting both the film cast and survivors of the Woodsboro killings, leading to Gale Weathers (Courteney Cox) and her ex-boyfriend, Dewey (David Arquette) to investigate as Sidney Prescott (Neve Campbell) is forced out of hiding after she suffers from visions of her deceased mother.The Scream series has always had a self-aware/meta element to it, but with Scream 3 its satire is taken a step too far as it takes jabs against Hollywood. The big jokes are about the production include constant re-writes to the film suffers, an actress saying she is playing a character that is 14 years younger then her, a music video director forced to make Stab 3 as his directional debut before he can make the film he wants, actors having to sleep with people to get roles and producers debating violence in films influencing real-life violence. The film just got too meta as an actor and the person she is meant to be playing arguing and talking about the rules of a trilogy. This is a film was much more focused on being a satire on Hollywood as a whole then a spoof of the horror genre.Tonally Scream 3 is lighter then previous films. There was always a comic undercurrent to the series, but it becomes much more pronounced in Scream 3 with the characters interactions and the deaths themselves were less gruesome and more over-the-top, particularly with a house getting blown up which was done in a unrealistic way and there is a sequence when Ghostface throws hi s knife and the handle hits Dewey on the head. There was even an occasional comical musical moments in score and a very overt cameo from the characters Jay and Silent Bob.I found the best bits were when Scream 3 was more serious, when we see Sidney living an isolated life in the countryside, with tons of security and works as a women's crisis counsellor: it felt like a good continuous to her story. But it does not blend well with the more comic tone and the film as a whole was struggling to justify her presence in the film. There are long period where she is not involved in the film, she is not involved at all in the first act and forces a reason to be in the film.Much of the problems of the lay at the feet of the new writer Ehren Kruger who replaced Kevin Williamson. It felt like Kruger was trying to copy Williamson's style and directed Wes Craven wanted to remake New Nightmare. The characters did feel a little compared to the previous movies and the satire/self-aware elements of the film was not as sharp to the first two movies.The acting also felt weak, with many of the actors either phoning in their performances or shouting and screaming, including a scene where the Stab actors end up acting clichéd horror victims/targets.Whilst Craven's directing is solid for the most part, a big criticism some of the sequences involving Ghostface's attacks looks like there was more then one killer, but the conclusion shows there was only one killer.At the time Scream 3 was originally meant to be a conclusion for the series and it was a disappointment due to poor script and overly comic tone. It is not the worst film, it's not even bad by horror standards. There are good moments, but it is disloyal to certain aspects of the previous films, including the character revisions, which you would have thought Craven would have noticed.
To me The Matrix Revolutions is one of the biggest cinematic disappointments I have seen. I enjoyed the first Matrix film and whilst The Matrix Reloaded was rubbish on a plot level it was still good on an action-adventure level. I had hopes that everything would come together in the third part of the trilogy but like many Matrix fans I find it is best to ignore this film.Following straight after the events of The Matrix Reloaded Neo (Keanu Reeves) is trapped in a coma, with his mind in the Matrix like limbo. The machines are only hours away from Zion and everything looks lost for humans. When Morpheus (Laurence Fishburne) and Trinity (Carrie-Anne Moss) rescue Neo our hero sets out on a suicide mission to go speak to the machines with Trinity. Morpheus and the rest of the humans go back to Zion. In the Matrix itself Agent Smith (Hugo Weaving) is taking over and becoming a threat to humans and machines.First the Matrix film was very clever, on a simple level its can be broken down to the world that Neo knew was a computer programme and for knowing that he was able to do whatever he wanted to help fight the Machines. The Wachowski Brothers were able to bring in other references, from 1984 and Alice in Wonderland to Plato to computing and cyberpunk, making complex ideas about reality manageable to a wide audience. But with the sequels however the films became to bogged with the philosophy with ideas of balance, choice, free will, fate, the meaning of words etc.. which felt so force, that the Wachowskis were trying to make the sequels film philosophical. The only people who enjoy it are the kind of young fools who pretty much say 'I'm so clever because I can understand this'. The plot of The Matrix Revolutions became bogged down with all it's subplots and it's ending was a real cop out: SPOILER ALERT that humans and the machines end up in peace together so Neo and Neo ending up defending Smith by becoming a part of him. The Smith part is able breaking the equation but it still was a big let down of an ending Spoiler OVER. The Wachowski seem to be loosing the plot by adding more and more random new ideas into the film, like the limbo train station with The Trainman (Bruce Spence) and Neo being able to see a flaming world and having powers beyond the Matrix. Things just happen for no real reason, there is a lack of a plot and film was an anticlimax.The action itself is decent and perfectly edited by Zach Staenberg, who edited the last two films. But the action can not compete with the levels of the first two films. The first fight between Neo and Smith should have been epic, Neo fighting dozens of clones. It was a fine well edited fist fight but it just lack power and the flying in the sky should have been between Superman vs. General Zod and remind the zero gravity fist fight in Inception (even though that was released 7 years later). I did however enjoy Don Davis operatic music when Neo and Smith first start to fight. The battle of dock was grand and will satisfy action junkies and was a fun sequence, almost like a high-tech Lord of the Rings. But the battle was full of stock characters like the hard ass Captain Mifune (Nathaniel Lees) who gives words of encouragement to Kid (Clayton Watson), Charra (Rachel Blackman) who we never saw before was pretty much a red shirt (a character introduced so that they would die) and Commander Lock (Harry J. Lennix) is speaks in military clichés. The action in the Matrix world takes a backseat for the most part.A problem in the film is the dark cinematography of Bill Pope (who did good work on the previous films). It made many of the scene more difficult to see much of the action and gives the film a too gloomy atmosphere (which is really saying something). When I watch a film, I want to see what's happening, even in a scene in the dark.Acting wise Reeves is as wooden as ever but that quality works in The Matrix. Other actors like Fishburne, Moss and Weaving were strong, particularly Weaving as Smith, giving important speeches. Ian Bliss was also very good as a villain, giving a great impression of Weaving. And as stated Lennix was offering the most clichéd performance possible.My initial reaction to The Matrix Revolutions was complete hatred. My opinion has soften and I can enjoy the battle of the dock. But I still think this film is a let-down, an anticlimax and a cop-out by the filmmakers.
A Bridge too Far is an epic war film about the failed Opperation Marketgarden in World War Two where the allies hoped to have a quick push through the Netherlands and into the Ruhr region of Germany, her industrial heartland. This film takes a look at the operation from a number of points of view, from the Dutch Resistance, the British high command, British and American ground troops and the German commanders in Holland. This film takes a look at mistakes made by commanders of the operation and how the mission was a failure despite the best efforts of the ground troops. This film avoids the cliché of making all Germans and Nazis as evil characters which was possibilities a more truthful portrayal. There was no mention of the SS or things such as the Holocrast. The film is also well directed by Richard Attenborough who is good at casting and the battle scenes were good. I wouldn't be surprised if this film helped influence Saving Private Ryan. A Bridge Too Far is a bold attempt of making a film, it was long, nearly 3 hours, but I think that it was needed and it couldn't have been shorter then 2 hours 30 minutes. The film also ends in a bittersweet note, and that was properly why this film was that successful at the box-office because people at the time didn't want to see a film about a military failure. The only think I didn't like about the film was the fact that Americans were shown to be be very noble and wanted to help out other soldiers regardless about anything else whilst the British were too prudent and did not want to go against there orders. In real life it would have been more of a mix in both armies. However A Bridge Too Far is a good film and is well worth watching, especially if you like war films or interested in WWII.
Tim Burton who is the master of Gothic film making and has one hell of an imagination. Beetlejuice a film example of this and a very quirky film.Beetlejuice starts with a young couple the Maitlands (Alec Baldwin and Geena Davis) who live in a large house in Connecticut. They unfortunately died in a car accident and end up trapped in their house for a 127 years. With their death their house was brought by Deetzs, a family from New York City. The wife Delia (Catherine O'Hara), starts to ruin everything that the Maitlands had set up. They want to get rid of the Deetzs from their house. They try to scare them away, but were very unsuccessful, so in their desperation call for the help from Betelgeuse (Michael Keaton). But at the same time the Maitlands start to befriend the Deetz's teenage daughter, Lydia (Winona Ryder), the only human who can see them.Beetlejuice is a horror comedy, not recommended for children. The style of the comedy is mostly physical and fish out of water situations; it fairly humorous. Michael Keaton was funny and creepy with some good speeches as the sinister Betelgeuse/Beetlejuice. Winona Ryder was good as always, and Alec Baldwin and Geena Davis were pretty decent in their roles. This is a very different film which Tim Burton repeats with Edward Scirrorhands. The special effects were done with heart and had a real imagination behind them; I can see the roots of Burton's animated films The Night Before Christmas and Corpse Bride.If you are a fan of Burton's work then you will enjoy this film.
Historical set supernatural action/horror have slowly been more popular with studios. In 2011 Solomon Kane and Black Death and these films are an attempt to make to cash from fantasy fans whilst have an adult edge. Season of the Witch is a small addition to this trend.Behmen (Nicolas Cage) and Felson (Ron Perlman) are two 14th Century knights fighting in the Crusades. After deserting the army, the two knights discover Europe has been decimated by the Black Death and after being captured in a town, a Cardinal (Christopher Lee) ask them to escort a suspected witch (Claire Foy), blamed for the plague, to a monastery. At the monastery is the last Book of Solomon that will destroy her. With another knight (Ulrich Thomsen), a priest (Stephen Campbell Moore), a teenager who wants to be a knight (Robert Sheehan) and a dodgy merchant (Stephen Graham) the knights accept the quest but question both the mission and what the girl really is.Season of the Witch is basically what would have happened if The Seventh Seal was made as a silly B-Movie. The relationship between Behmen and Felson and their characterisation is similar to Antonius and Jöns, but obviously without the intelligence or the depth of themes. Both sets of men are on a similar mission, battling an supernatural force and going through Europe during the height of the Black Death. But the issues of lose of faith felt very false in Season of the Witch.Dominic Sena, is a gun-for-hire director. He gets the job done and made a fast pace movie but with much of visual flair. The action scenes were standard, decent enough, but we have seen this all before. The fights were clean and quick, it was not like Ridley Scott's brutal, realistic style, Zack Snyder violence comic-book style or Peter Jackson's epic sense of filmmaking. Sena was unable to give this film any atmosphere and any horror moments are limply handled, done in that typical way of turning the music up really loudly. The humour was also weak and this is a film that is hard to take seriously.The acting in Season of the Witch was appalling. Cage just gave a lazy, phoned-in performance and many of the actors of seemed like they did not care (whoever thought he could play a Medieval knight should reevaluate their career in the film industry). The actors' voices and looks were wooden and shows that none of them did not really care. It is made even more shameful because some of the talent who was involved. I would have though Perlman should have learnt from his from his experience with In the Name of the King and I would not be surprised if Cage earns an Razzie nomination. But there is some hope, Foy was able to show some range, playing someone who can be seem innocent to someone with menace. Foy was a decent bit of casting because of her young, girly look, but that is the only bright spark on the acting front.The script by Bragi F. Schut is a poor piece of work. The dialogue is laughable (in a bad way) the story is thin and characterisation is non-existence. We do not get to know anything about the characters and we simply see a bunch of clichés. He is not J.R.R. Tolkien or Robert E. Howard and shows what happens when a supernatural fantasy is not done properly and filled with plot-holes.
After the Academy gave the God-awful Braveheart Oscars for best film and director ahead of a number of quality films such as the Usual Suspects, Heat, Se7en, Twelve Monkeys and Casino, they won back some sanity by giving the English Patient nine awards.Based on a novel, The English Patient tells the story of a horribly burned man known only as the English Patient (Ralph Fiennes) in 1944. He is cared for by Hana (Juliette Binoche), a French-Canadian nurse, who set out to care for the man in an abandoned monastery in rural Italy. The two develop a bond and he slowly regains his memory where he was a geographer in Egypt, making maps of the desert. He remembers having an affair with Katharine (Kristin Scott Thomas) who was married to his best friend Geoffrey (Colin Firth). The affair was the reason for why he was injured. As well as the memories and the story in North Africa, Hana starts to have a relationship with Kip (Naveen Andrews), a Sikh Indian engineer who was in the British Army. But she struggles to truly led herself go. The other person at the monastery is David Caravaggio (William Dafoe), a Canadian Intelligence Operative from Italian descent. He had his thumps cut off by the Germans and he blames The English Patient for what happened.The English Patient is an actor's film. Many of the actors were nominated for Oscars and other awards, Juliette Binoche even won on for best Supporting Actress. All the actors offered great performance, Ralph Fiennes, William Dafoe and Kristin Scott Thomas are all top talents and I personally thought Naveen Andrews was also very good. The film was also able to blend the flash-backs and present time effective, allowing the audience to follow the plots easily enough. He is a well structured film, with solid writing and direction. The direction is solid. They are some good scenes with some tension and the mystery is reviled slowly. They is wonderful cinematography. But is the film worthy of Oscars for best film and best director? Doubtful in my opinion.If you like romantic films such as Titanic you should enjoy the English Patient.
As a director Ron Howard likes making character pieces set to a period backgrounds. He did that with Apollo 13, Cinderella Man and Frost/Nixon, but it was A Beautiful Mind that won him the Oscar. Weirdly, I think A Beautiful Mind is a lesser film to his other films.A Beautiful Mind is a bio-pic about John Nash (Russell Crowe), a Mathematical genius who created the revolutionary idea of Game Theory. Starting with his life as a PHD student at Princeton University Nash where he starts to see the world in a certain light. After impressing his professors Nash get to work at MIT and advices the Pentagon on code breaking. He is recruited by William Parcher (Ed Harris), an intelligence agent for the CIA. Parcher tells Nash of a plot by the Soviet to blow up a nuclear bomb on US soil and communicate with their sleepers through codes in magazines. Nash forms a relationship with a beautiful woman, Alicia (Jennifer Connelly), but as he becomes more paranoid, Nash view of reality is altered.A Beautiful Mind is a slow burning type of film, where the story and the character development is built over time. It is a serious drama that was designed as an actors film. And the actor was really good and that is what you would except from this cast. Crowe was really good and it was believed he lost the Oscar because of his outer acting activities. I really like Jennifer Connelly as an actress and she has shown talent in her roles: the highlight of her performance was when her relationship with Nash starts to break down and flex her acting muscles. Paul Bettany is another actor I really like and his role was to add a little comic relief to the film. And Ed Harris was able to give a more sinister performance, a little like his role in The Truman Show. He is also a little like the spies in The Good Shepherd, even dressing the same.A Beautiful Mind is a film about mental issues, a subject that is hard to be put onto screen because it is an internal issue and people experience it differently. But Howard does his best to visualise it, with Nash hallucinating events, seeing numbers and patterns and codes jump out from the pages. It was when the film truly comes to life when it is relieved that Nash is delusional and how his mind made up its own form of reality.But reading Nash's real story there was some even more strange behaviour. One example was because of his paranoid that he tried to flee America and renounce his American citizenship. Or when he was delusional he when on anti-Semitic rants blaming Jews for World Communism. It is interesting how his delusional were based on Cold War fears and the whole idea of the Red Scare that was common for the period. It was a great way for the right wing to try and keep people in control and force through their agenda: they still do it today. Plus the real Robert Nash had a number of affairs and had a child out of wedlock.Overall, A Beautiful Mind is a good film, but it is typical Oscar bait. 7.5/10.
20th Century Fox have made two excellent blockbusters in the same year: Tom Rothman take note, stay away from the production process because people like strong stories and characters in their films. What is even more surprising is that no one excepted Rise of the Planet of the Apes to be good, it was directed by a fairly unknown director who only made one film and a few episodes of Hollyoaks (a poor British teen soap), the first trailer advertised the special effects company (never a good sign) and it is a prequel to a great film, but of a series people have not shown much interest in. Even the website I work for, Playeraffinity.com (there's my plug), had doubts it would be good. The last Planet of the Apes film was the Tim Burton remake, which was met with a lukewarm reaction. But Rupert Wyatt was able to put it out the bag.Will Rodman (James Franco) is a promising scientist for Gen-Syns, a major pharmaceutical company based in San Francisco and believes he has found the cure for Alzheimer's, the disease his father, Charles (John Lithgow). But after his demonstration to the board goes horribly wrong Will's research is forced back to square one and only one ape survives, Caesar (Andy Serkis) and he ends up caring for the chimp. He discovers that Caesar inherited the brain power of his mother and Will studies him, believing he could be the cure for all brain diseases whilst caring for him. But after a violence attack on a man Caesar is forced to live in a primate sanctuary, with a cruel guard, Dodge (Tom Felton). Caesar sees the many sides of human cruelty and he knows he can lead a revolution and lead his kind.Wyatt shows he is already turning into a really good director: The Escapist was a strong star and Rise of the Planet of the Apes is a great blockbuster. In a short 105 minute package Wyatt was able to make a film with lots of drama, action, sci-fi which had a number of story lines: but he never overloaded the film with characters. This is what a blockbuster should be, fun with a great story. This was a film that was Caesar's story as becomes aware and grows from a young chimp to a super intelligence leader. Wyatt was able to mix tender moments with fast paced action: there are great action set pieces and brilliant special effects. Many of the apes have their own unique look and Wyatt knew how to move the camera. He kept the tone serious, dramatic, yet fun. I feared the film would follow a formula, man tests on apes, someone saying we shouldn't be doing this testing, oh crikey everything is going to hell: but the film avoided this, for the most part.Andy Serkis was truly great as Caesar and he was so expressive. There is already a campaign to get him an Oscar nomination but I doubt he would get it, but he does deserve an award at some point in his career. He got his role down perfectly, moving and sounding like an ape and showing you could be a great performance just through movement and facial expressions. There are a lot of moments with the film being without dialogue and it a great strength of Wyatt of making these scenes very compelling, understanding film is a visual median. I personally was hesitant of Franco being cast as a leading scientist because he looks too young and too much of a pretty boy for the role, but he was strong throughout his performance and worked well with Serkis. Lithgow too was strong as the father who was suffering from Alzheimer's and really good for an actor who I know mostly for comic performances. Felton was effectively slimy and like he is in the Harry Potter series a really vile villain. Freida Pinto sadly has a more thankless role as the love interest but sadly actors from South Asia struggle to find good roles in Hollywood, which is a real shame because Pinto is very talented and beautiful actress.Whilst this film has a lot of strength I do have some minor criticisms. The first is that David Oyelowo plays a cliqued movie executive who only thinks about money, does not listen to reason or logic from people who know better and acts constantly as an antagonist for when the situation requires it, even if he changes character. The other little problem I have is that I would have thought a cure for brain disease would be stem cell based, not a retrovirus, but I'm not a scientist so what do I know? I also like to praise Patrick Doyle's score, particularly the use of African drums and Andrew Lesnie's (Peter Jackson's cinematographer) camera work. Plus there are a plenty of homages to the original film and despite the fact Charlton Heston is dead he is still able to offer a cameo: but it is a blink and you miss it moment.Also this is real nitpicking, but is Earth already the planet of the apes because humans are apes.
Alfred Hitchcock had a long and stellar career as director and is one of the most loved and popular directors ever. But they end of the sixties his films were not receiving the same critical and commercial success and his 1969 thriller Topaz was considered one of his weakest films. Hitchcock changed course for his follow-up, making a murder-thriller in London, his British film since Stage Fright in 1950.The city of London is suffering from the terror of a serial killer known as the neck-tie killer, a man who rapes women before strangling them with a neck-tie. Richard Blancy (Jon Finch) is a barman and a former RAF man who enjoys a drink and suffers a violence temper. When his ex-wife Brenda (Barbara Leigh-Hunt) the police suspect Richard is the killer; but the police is after the wrong man.Frenzy is a bold film for time with Hitchcock being more graphic with violence and nudity without the need to overuse the then new techniques and less strict limits. There is a tense, graphic rape scene in the first 30 minutes with Barry Foster giving a really creepy and terrifying performance. Hitchcock was able to much darker and more brutal film to much of his previous work, including a sequence where the killer tries to receive evidence from a body in the back of a truck which contents a lot of Hitchcock's trademark tension.Hitchcock does get you to feel the hustle and bustle of London with its crowded streets, roads, pubs and markets and much more focused on the worker and low middle classes compared to many of Hitchcock's films focusing on upper class and wealthier people. Frenzy felt very British and that London was a character and provided an atmosphere and it felt little a dirtier a place. The Covent Garden has changed a lot from the area it was to the affluence it has now.Frenzy does have an excellent cast with the likes of Finch and Foster giving instance performances. When I first saw Foster I originally thought it was Michael Caine and guess who was offered the role first? Finch was convincing as a man who is quick to anger and not exactly a sympathetic character; but he is still an innocent man and some of moments of anger are understandable. This film also features Clive Swift which is a pleasant site.There are some criticism to be had. The first is there are moments of comedy which are hit and miss. Sometimes the humour breaks the tension and works because of personality of the actors, but other bits like the Police Detective having to eat his wife's ghastly food which was old fashioned and out of place. The other problem is not so much how the film but more how it aged since we now know more about how the police function and how serial killers really act. There were times I was thinking that the police should be checking for fingerprints on the ties and should be wearing gloves.Frenzy is a fine entrance in Hitchcock's filmography as a murder film where the story revolves around whether the people with catch the right man then a whodunit.
Escape from Alcatraz is one Clint Eastwood's most famous films as an actor and the last film he made with director Don Siegel, the director of Dirty Harry. Escape from Alcatraz is a proper grown up drama and a fine piece of 70s filmmaking. Siegel is able to add plenty of tension throughout the film as Frank Morris (Eastwood) has to make preparations for the prison break and hide it from the guards. There is an excellent use of music to heighten the tension on screen. Eastwood displays an excellent performance as a gruff prisoner who cares about his fellow prisoners and keeps his badass credentials. Morris also has to make many friendships and make deals for the escape and Siegel is strong at setting up this ever watchful world of prison and the threat the guards in the watch towers sharp shooting. But a weakness is that we do not get to know much about two of the other escapees and just feel like blank slates that are just there for the ride: it is even more annoying when we get to know other characters in the prison.4 out of 5
Ever since Stephanie Meyer's popular series of novels, the Twilight Saga was commission be made into films two communities have emerged on the internet: Twihards who love the books and films and will not accept any criticism and Twihaters who will shout from the rooftops how much they hate it and go and see the films just so they can rid them apart. I am in neither camp and I am neutral to the Twilight films, accepting them for their own merits. I have not read the books, so I can only judges the films by themselves.Bella Swan (Kirsten Stewart) has just turned 18 and reluctantly celebrates her birthday with her vampire boyfriend Edward Cullen (Robert Pattinson) and his family when they throw a surprise party for her. But when she is nearly attacked by Jasper (Jackson Rathbone), Edward ends the relationship for Bella safety and the family move from Forks, Washington. With Bella being heartbroken she becomes socially isolated from her friends and becomes a danger junkie, hoping Edward would save her. She falls for her old friend Jacob Black (Taylor Lautner) who helps her overcome her depression: but he has his own dark secret, with Sam (Chaske Spencer) putting pressure on Jacob to join his gang/cult.I will say that New Moon is a weak film, but there are some positives. I am personally critically of Chris Weitz as a director because I believe he is one of the main reasons why The Golden Compass was a hatchet job of Northern Lights: but he does a better job with New Moon. With New Moon he does a better job. With editor Peter Lambert, Weitz was able to shot with effective shots pacing time, like when the camera goes around Bella when she staring out the windows and the months roll by and when Bella and Jacob rebuild the motorbike. Weitz is also a more confidence action director then Catherine Hardwicke was with Twilight: it was obvious that more money was spent on the CGI and there were some decent fight scenes like when Victoria (Rachelle Lefevre) fights a werewolf with a Muse song in the background and Edward fighting the Volturi. There is also an effective and stylist CGI for creating a misty ghost of Edward which only Bella can see: I particular like how he disappears. Plus there is a fitting soundtrack and Weitz makes a wise call to use indie music.But there is a plenty of weaknesses in the film. The pacing is very slow, with not much happening, leading to a boring experience. There is a feeling that of just get on with it, shorten and cut scenes: the film need to be more action packed, particularly to widen the fan base. The film focuses on the dullest character in the series and it would have been more interesting if we got to see it from Edward or Jacob's perspective with all the personal issues they would have to go thought as monsters. The acting is bad, Stewart is good when she is suffering night terrors, but otherwise her acting was very wooden. It's the same for Lautner, which I doubt his abilities as an actor: I will be surprised if he does become a star outside the Twilight series. Many of the small actors like the other members of the werewolf tribe were terrible actors and I'm sure they were cast because they were cheap and can be passed off as Native Americans. Ashley Greene starts of strong but later on her performance is just average. Even Michael Sheen hams it up in the film and that Dakota Fanning doesn't have much to do. Pattinson is better and I believe he has a better chance of becoming a star. But the best performer overall was Anne Kendrick as one of Bella's human friends and her role was minor. There is also some weak dialogue, like when Edward said 'Bella, you give me everything by just breathing.' Who speaks like that? There are interesting ideas in the Twilight series and I do like how ideas of the myths are twisted. I like that the vampires are having to fight their blood lust, and want to be good that there is a ancient order of royal vampires that powerful and govern the vampire race and that the werewolves are part of a Native American tribe and change by choice and anger rather then by the moon and become a creature with no memory of his/her old self. I would have like to have seen more of these ideas and been developed in the film. I also thought the film should have shown more of the fact there is a murderer targeting hikers in the woods and how the police would have investigated it. It could have helped give the film a more male audience and keep the female audience.As I said I speak as someone who is neutral towards the Twilight series.
In recent years Israeli cinema has been on the raise with more films being seen by an international audience and being praised by critics. Waltz with Bashir is seen as a highlight of this emergent, a powerful animated film and it was a big surprise that it was not nominated for Best Film or Best Animated Film at the Academy Awards.Waltz with Bashir tells the story of the director Ari Folman (playing himself), a filmmaker who when his one of his old friends tells of a recurring nightmare he has. When speaking to his friend Ari realises that he has no memory of when he served in the Lebanon War, particularly the Sabra and Shatila massacre. As he starts to have a flashback of the event, Ari sets out to speak to his old friends in the army about they war stories and memories so that Ari can recover his.Animation is not the usual format for documentary but Folman makes it work. The animation style is simple but very effective, with characters looking real, not cartoony. Folman is able to use animation to actually show the events these witnesses describe, whether it's the horrors of war, with young men being scared, shooting at random, being shot at and innocent people getting hurt to the more mundane things like soldiers relaxing on the beach and waiting for orders. With it's bleak view of war many of the characters speak with guilt and realism, many of them ordinary young men in their late teens who were conscripted into the army: the enemy was often in the distance, so we don't get to know anything about them, just that they are fighting them. Folman brings in moments of dark, tragic comedy, like when the Israeli forces try and hit a car with a gunman and end up shooting an innocent man with his donkey and blowing up a whole section of a town. The senior officers are shown to be uncaring men, who just sit back at a distance, unconcerned about events and looked the other way when it suited them.The visual style was incredible, with Folman handling the action, the period, the settings and the transitions from time and locations. The transitions were done with real effect, like when Ari was in the taxi and had his first flashback and to an aerial shot in Holland where the trees change from north Europe trees to Middle Eastern ones. The pacing was just about right, slowly building up the plot and the drive of Ari as he discovers when happened to the fast action of war. Because of the animation, Folman was allowed to get away with showing a lot more then a live action film could with the horrors of war. Waltz with Bashir is a powerful film, a criticism of war, the effects it has on men, during and after the conflict and how brutal war is. Men do not how to act, with some being scared, to some who enjoy the violence. Things can change in an instant, from casually driving to one shot turning everything turning to end. This is an anti-war period, with neither side being made out to be good guys and willing to commit horrible actions. The Israelis just stood by and watched the massacre and the commanding officers just let it, not caring about civilians.On a final note, I have to praise the score by Max Richter, using both an excellent techno beat in the beginning and a sombre piano tune for more violence, intense scenes. Plus some of the sequence could easily work as a short films.Art-house cinema at it's best.
Some of the best sci-fi ever tends to be fiction that raises big social or political themes and often creates their own world. Gattaca is an very intelligence low key sci-fi film from then first-time writer-director Andrew Niccol.In the future people parents are able to genetically engineer their children to minimalist the risk of genetic diseases and even cosmetic issues such as eyesight, baldness and obesity. Doctors can find out from birth whether a child is at risk of any conditions. Because of this society is divided into two, the rich genetically engineered people who can land any job they want and an underclass of 'faith' births, people with the likelihood of having genetic defects, people who from birth destined to work in lowly jobs. One of them is Vincent Freeman (Ethan Hawke), a man who dreams of going into space, a man with obvious intelligence and determination but discriminated because it is predicted that he will die at 30. Vincent assumes the identity of Jerome Eugene Morrow (Jude Law), a disabled man with the right genetic make-up. Everything seems to be going well, Vincent has been picked to go on a mission to Saturn's moon Titan, but his life's ambition is put under threat when a man in murdered and Vincent becomes a suspect just because of his DNA.The obvious theme of Gattaca is the idea of prejudice that always been in some form or another. In this future race is not a way to discriminate but of course based on genetic make-up, believing that they are destined to a certain path in life no matter what their actually physical state or mental abilities. It forces an underclass into a vicious circle of low expectations and life of self-fulfilling prophecy. A modern parallel is the American Health Insurance industry where people are discriminated against if they have a pre-existing condition or dodgy family history and if its discovered that someone has been lying then their cover is ended, it a industry that looks to avoid paying out, it is a horrible amoral industry.Added to that police would suspect someone from the underclass because they have a tendency to be more violence, almost like racism in the police where they question someone because of their background intend of looking at other evidence. And someone could be cold and cunning to murder someone without being violence.But there is also a positive theme that despite any artificial disadvantage it can be overcome if someone is willing, determined and able enough. And that how I feel in real life if you are willing to work hard and keep trying then you should be able to achieve your goals.There is also a theme of identity, that someone has to steal someone else's identity so he could fulfil his ambition and deny himself. There is an even bigger issue because Vincent was pretty much rejected by his family because they did not support their son, wanted him to accept his 'limitations'. It could even be played that the son was rejected for being like mixed-raced or gay, but maybe I am just overreading it.Another idea explored is it man's place to play God with itself or simply let nature take its course? Wouldn't any parent want to give their child the best chance in live a good life. It is certainly an issue that is around today because of IVF and it could be taken further and further.I really like the world that Nicoll created. It was a deliberately understated world, a cold world and that makes this world more believable. There seems to be references to great sci-fi like A Brave New World and Metropolis particularly with the ideas of two different classes, the wealth upper class and the underclass that does all the grunt work. There is a period feel to the because of the cars and the dress, particularly the police who look like they are from the 1950s. He made really interest, intelligence film that does not drag at all and keeps it in a tight package.Acting wise there is nothing remarkable but the film the plot and the characterisation was able to make up for it. To me Jude Law was the best performer, starting off as a arrogant and better man who grows to be a more interesting and in-depth man and it was interesting to see him interplay with Hawke. Gore Vidal seemed to be decent enough actor for someone who is not a trained actor. Vincent himself was a very interesting and well development someone who is determined yet faulted, someone who is believable now, let alone in Gattaca's internal reality.A final little note, Michael Nyman provides an excellent classical score, added to the upper class, period feel to this film.If you are looking for a big action, special effects driven sci-fi film, Gattaca is not for you. Gattaca is a very intelligence sci-fi film, taking you into its own version of the future and society could change.
We all know that in 2012 we should be getting the ultimate superhero film, The Avengers, being set up by Marvel Studios. But they have to set it up first, starting with Iron Man in 2008. Now Marvel have to turned to another on of their properties, Thor, and again made another entertaining superhero film.In 970 A.D. there was epic war between the Asgardians lead by Odin (Anthony Hopkins) and the frost giants, who want to conquer Earth. Years later Odin makes his son, Thor (Chris Hemsworth) his heir but a group of frost giants attempt to steal the Casket of Ancient Winters. Thor's brother Loki (Tom Hiddleston), convicts Thor and his companions to go to war against the Frost Giants, against their father's orders. As punishment Thor is banished to Earth with his powers and hammer, Mjolnir taken away from him. On Earth Thor befriends a young scientist Jane Foster (Natalie Portman) and her companions Dr. Erik Selvig (Stellan Skargard) and Darcy (Kat Dennings). Thor sets out to receive his hammer from SHIELD whilst in Asgard Loki continues his plotting ways to take control.Thor is Marvel's interpretation of Norse mythology and he is a God, with powers to much. A problem could have been that Thor would have too powerful so would not be in an real danger, but the writers were able to counter at it in two ways. First is Thor does have powerful adversaries, who can match or at least give him a good run for his money. The other idea was that Thor's powers were taken away from him and he become not more then a physically fit man who was fallible. Thor has to earn his powers back and prove himself, that is the core of the story.Marvel has made bold choices when picking their directors: Jon Favreau was an actor before turning into a family-comedy director and Louis Leterrier was a full on action director. Kenneth Branagh is known for making Shakespeare adaptation and films about classic stories, so it was interesting choice for both the director and the studio. Whether or not you like Branagh's movies there is no denying he has a grand visual style and a perfect fit for bringing all these different worlds to life: the bright fantasy world of Asgard, the dark cold world of Jotunheim and Earth looking like it does in Iron Man. Thor itself is a strange mix of fantasy and science-fiction, trying to combine the two. The special effects were of a high standard and the action was good, with Hemsworth being particularly convincing as a fighter, beating his way through SHIELD. I'm sure if Branagh returns for a sequel his action direction will improve. Branagh ensured that there was a health mix of action, drama, romance and comedy, all the ingredients needed for a fun at the cinema. They are obviously trying to be like Iron Man, having a prologue then showing the set-up and matching its tone.There is a great cast in the film, I expect Hemsworth will be a big star. He was really convincing as a young warrior who is impulsive and defiant and has to learn to be responsible. Hiddleston is wonderfully weasel like, a power hunger individual who manipulates everyone around him, he is a complex character, the opposite of Thor. Loki lacks strength but is cunning and his character was similar to Commodus in Gladiator and Wormtongue in Lord in the Rings. Portman and Hemsworth have excellent chemistry together and I expect Jane's knowledge will be of use later on in the series. Skargard's character was basically in the film to arch Vikings myths to the characters, but it was done effectively. And Thor is easily Anthony Hopkins' best performance in a film for a long time.I do have criticise that Thor did rely a little too much on comic relief. Of course a film like this does need a little comedy, but the Dracy character was only in the film so all her lines can be jokes and wisecracks.For comic book fans there are little references for you, including a cameo by Jeremy Remner as Hawkeye. I would to have like to seen a little news footage showing the events of Iron Man 2, because they were going on at the same time as Thor. And everyone needs to stay behind for the post-credit scene because it will be important for later films.
Dragonheart is esstientally a film for kids around the ages from 8 to 13 years old. Any older and people wouldn't be completed satisfied.Dragonheart is set in England at the end of 10th Century. A tyrannical king was ruling the nation, but his son Einon (Lee Oakes/David Thewlis) was being trained by a knight Bowen (Dennis Quaid) who tries to teach him the old code of the knights of the Roundtable. However, Einon is a very power hungry young man. During a peasant revolt Einon's father was killed during an ambush and Einon gets stabbed in the heart. His mother (Julie Christie) does the only thing she can do and takes him to a dragon who gives the prince half his heart in exchange that he is a noble ruler. But Einon quickly goes back on his word and becomes a harsh tyrant himself, torturing people and makes a massive fortress for himself. Bowen is angered, blaming the dragon for the Einon's corruption and swears to kill all dragons. The film then skips forward twelve years. Einon is still a tyrant and Bowen had hunted down every dragon, leaving only one. When battling the last dragon they enter into a stalemate, and the enter into a deal where Bowen and the dragon defraud people by letting the dragon scare villages and Bowen 'kills' him for payment. At the same time a young woman named Kara (Dina Meyer), a daughter of a rebel, trys to bring about another rebellion, but her calls fall on death ears. Its only when she is able to talk Bowen and Draco (Sean Connery) into joining the rebellion and train the peasants that they are able to take on Einon's forces.They are good points and bad for this film. The good is the special effects were good, especially for its time. The scenery was also very good and well done. The action and battle scenes were also good, but clean cut enough for children. Now the bad. The acting is poor. Dennis Quaid is not an action hero, and he did not fit the part. As well casting American in English roles a dumb move, and they don't even try an English accent. This was a tread in the 90s, Robin Hood Prince of Thieves had Kevin Costner and First Knight had the wooden Richard Gear. I don't like it when American play English characters. Dina Meyer was poor in this film. I personally think that Julie Christie and Sean Connery only did this film for the money. David Thewlis was over the top in this film Pete Postlethwaite was surprisingly poor as the comical sidekick. The writing was also poor. The plot is thin and pretty standard. The dialogue isn't good and the jokes did not work.2.5 out of 5.
Carnage is a film that should have a lot of award buzz behind it, it is based on a critically acclaimed play, directed by awards and festival darling Roman Polanski and has a great cast. Whilst it is a decent and entertaining enough film, it did not get the critical and awards reception it was expecting.Penelope and Michael (Jodie Foster and John C. Reilly) and Nancy and Alan (Kate Winslet and Christoph Waltz) are two sets of Middle Class parents who come together to resolve a conflict between their 11-year-olds after Nancy and Alan's son hits Penelope and Michael's son with a stick. What should been a quick meeting to try and organise a meeting between the children quickly descents into conflict and madness as the parents argue.Carnage is a highly dialogue driven film, with much of the humour coming from well written lines and conversations. The whole film takes place within Penelope and Michael's apartment and is short. It is a very well acted film, enhancing the humour provided. The characters were unlikeable but still entertaining and interesting, from Michael being a complete Jack-ass, Penelope is a overly smug because of her love of art and that she knows of the plight of the people of Darfur, Alan is a work a distance workaholic who does not seem to be interested and Nancy is a very confrontation person, though the most sympathetic. Even at first when they are all trying to be civil but this thin veil is very quickly lifted from the snipe comments to the outright conflict.Out of the actors Reilly was the best because he was just great playing a politically incorrect jerk and he had a real strong interplay with Waltz. Carnage certainly offers us Waltz's best performance since Inglorious Basterds because he was actually playing different character. There were some moments of overacting and being over the top particularly when the characters start drinking. But for the most part these are top actors who are very good at what they do and they did feel like two Upper Middle Class trying to live up a standard they are meant to.A major problem of the film is that it really does feel like a stage play. Polanski's direction felt like it lacked any real ambition, any style or lack whatsoever. It was too tight and restricted to the location of New York apartment. They is nothing really visual about this film because it is all about the dialogue. But also Polanski could only do so much with the script and the setting. There is no music which added to the fact that Carnage is really a stage play put to film. There is also a scene when Nancy vomit's fairly early on which felt so out of place to the rest of the film that was relying on dialogue and a certain sense of realism. Plus it shows how despicable and selfish that Penelope is when she is more concern about her books then a woman who is sick in front of her.Carnage is funny, if a bit too restricted to its environment. I enjoyed it more then I though I would and I give it a 7.3 out of 10.
The Motorcycle Diaries is a film about Ernesto 'Fuser' 'Che' Guevara's travels around South America with his friend Alberto Granado, a 29-year-old bio-chemist. They plan to travel through their native Argentina before going Chile, Peru, the San Pablo leaper colony and Venezuela. They plan to drive the whole way by going on a 1939 Norton motorbike and they hope to finish the trip on Alberto's 30th birthday. Both men are from middle-class backgrounds with leftist leanings. Both are also doctors with a moral and social conscious. They go and meet up with Guevara's girlfriend and her family before continuing the trip. The early part of the trip is slightly comedial. The bike keeps breaking down and they end up broke, so have to do a number of thinks to make sure that they can live, including offering free medical advise, using the press and chat up local women. They start out the trip just as way to have a good time do some work at the leaper colony. They end up having to walk and hitchike for a lot of the trip after their bike breaks down completely. This is when they see harsh poverty that affects the indigenous populations of Chile and Peru. The ideas that affect them include mining, political arrests, land seizures, education, the list goes on. This harden the men's views. They are also hostile to the regime at the leaper colony, refusing to follow the rules set by the nuns and befriend the leapers. He develops a strong Marxist, pan-American view.The film is a good character study of the famous revoltuary and you can see how his views are developed. It is very well acted by its two stars Gael García Bernal and Rodrigo de la Serna. You also get a look and a feel of South American culture. It also has great cinematography, seeing some of the lovely scenery and the ruins of the Indica city Machu Picchu.
After five movies and a worldwide gross of over $3 billion the Twilight Saga has ended, and now the pretenders who wish to claim its crown are circling. First out of the blocks is the supernatural romance Beautiful Creatures, which despite some flourishes, is a clone of the first Twilight film.Gatlin, South Carolina is a backwater town in the Bible Belt. It is a place where religion is so dominant that the public library has a massive banned list of books, and the few people who live there are either "too stupid to leave or too stuck to move." Ethan Wate (Alden Ehrenreich) is a high school student who has started junior year, and he has had a recurring dream of a girl whose face he cannot see.It turns out that the girl of his dreams is a new student, Lena Duchannes (Alice Englert), and what is even more extraordinary is that she is a caser (because the term "witch" has too much of a stigma). Despite their attraction to each other, Lena is cursed to join the dark side on her sixteenth birthday and her protective Uncle Macon (Jeremy Irons) wants to keep the teens away from each other as two evil witches, Sarafine (Emma Thompson) and Ridley (Emmy Rossum) want to ensure Lena becomes evil.There are plenty of comparisons that could easily be made between Beautiful Creatures and the first Twilight film. Plot-wise, both are teen romances about a mortal (a bit of an outsider) and a supernatural being who lives in semi-isolation from mainstream society. Both films also follow the idea that the supernatural creatures try to push away their partner, fearing they are too dangerous.Both movies use similar storytelling techniques, particularly the use of dreams and voiceovers, and both are set in distinctive areas of America. That being said, there are also some distinct differences between the two films, examples being that Macon tries to keep the two apart in their affair, and that writer/director Richard LaGravenese brings his own stylish approach to the film.Tonally, Beautiful Creatures starts with a sarcastic tone as evidenced by Lena and her overall personality. It wants to play as a parody of the Deep South. The best showcase is Emma Thompson's alter-ego of Mrs. Lincoln, a fundamentalist Christian who launches moral crusades and claims people who do not believe in her narrow viewpoint of the world there are going to hell and is essentially a satircal look at those type of people. There are occasional jokes made at the expense of the political Right, and characters like high school students Emily (Zoey Deutch) and Savannah (Tiffany Boone) are mental vacuous, judgemental, religious nutcases who speak in clichés.Beautiful Creatures also brings in themes of destiny, fate, and choice with Ethan and Lena trying both to fight Lena's path of her becoming dark but also embrace it with their romance across the ages. Macon is fighting destiny whilst Sarafine does everything in her power to ensure it happens. Added to this are some mild themes of natural vs. nurture with elements of Lena's character exhibiting moments of darkness. Finally there is a additional religious theme about the fall of Sarafine, much like the downfall of Eve in the Garden of Eden and curse she put on all women, a theme prominent in medieval ideology - humanity's yearning for knowledge and creating ideas and their impacted is touched upon. This however does not play as big a part on the proceedings.As a lead (Ehrenreich is a brand new actor) his character was at least proactive, willing to fight for Lena and against the curse, compared to Bella Swann who simply waitied for a man to save her. Ehrenreich is compensated with Englert who demonstrates character and wit as she fights her fate. And despite her limited screen time, Thompson was having a blast as the villain and dominated the screen when given the chance.Beautiful Creatures is slowly paced and turns more somber as the running time goes on. As a whole, Beautiful Creatures has a little more substance then the Twilight Saga but it is not going to win over detachers of these romantic/supernatural films. There are just too many similarities to Twilight to make it stand out.
Kill Bill Volume One and Volume Two are both great films and I love them both. Kill Bill Vol. Two is the better quality film, but Vol. One is the more fun.Kill Bill is a simple revenge film, influenced by material arts and samurai films. It tells the story of the Bride/Black Mamba (Uma Thurman) who is beat-up and left for dead. She was pregnant at the time and she wakes up four years later in hospital and she looks for revenge against her attackers, O-Ren Ishii (Lucy Liu), Elle Driver (Daryl Hannah), Vernita Green (Vivica A. Fox), Budd (Michael Marsden) and Bill (David Carradine). The film starts with a regular Quentin Tarantino trait, starting the film in the middle and showing getting ready to attack Vernita. It then tells the history about what happened with the Bride and then shows how see went after O-Ren, simply because she was the easiest the find. This was because she became the head of the Yakuza in Tokyo. This leads to the Bride going off to the Japanese capital and taking on O-Ren's whole private army.This film works on a number of levels. It is good on an action-adventure/material arts level, with a great fight against the Crazy 88. Like all of Tarantino's films they is good dialogue, he is able to get good actors involved and is deliciously violent. There is great music, Tarantino is one of the best soundtrack directors around, a fun violent anime sequence and they are good moments of humour. The film also looks at some dark aspects of human life, including revenge, rape, family lost, paedophilia, the list goes on. Tarantino is a good filmmarker and Kill Bill is new territory for him. Kill Bill is very enjoyable.
Paul Bettany is a very talented actor, but he is rarely been a leading man. In most American films he is often been a supporting actor, with Wimbledon being the only major Hollywood film he was the lead character. He missed out leading A Knight's Tale because the studio thought Heath Ledger would be more bankable. But now director Scott Stewart has discovered Bettany and cast in the leading role in Legion and Priest.At Christmas time God has lost faith in mankind and plays to send a swarm of angels to exterminate all of mankind. The angels take over the weak to kill the strong. They main target is a pregnant waitress, Charlie (Adrianne Palicki) in the Mojave Desert: she is carrying the mankind's only hope. One angel comes to Earth to protect the baby, Michael (Bettany) and in a small café with a group of non-affected people against the swarm.Paul Bettany does give his all in the film and tries to make Michael an interesting character. He is a character with a claim demeanour. Bettany had to act with a collection with a forest of actors and he still tried his best. He physically looks the part of a fallen angel. The only other actor who was decent was Kevin Durand as Gabriel, God's personal messenger and best warrior and I really like how he was given a heavenly sounding voice. It is an interesting idea of angels clashing amongst each other and Michael becomes a fallen angel, like Satan rebelling against God.The religious story is obvious, a baby that is going to be the survivor of mankind is going to be born in the desert at Christmas time. There are ideas of the apocalypse/rapture of God turning on man and leaving humans with no hope. But Legion does not fulfil all this promise.Legion also take ideas from other films. One film it has often been compared to is the first two Terminator films, with a protector sent to save a mother and child from some powerful element. The way people turned into demonic angels was pretty much lifted from The Matrix when ordinary people turned into angels. The way the angels looked was like from a combination of horror films, from 28 Days Later, the remake of Dawn of the Dead, Zombieland and I Am Legend as well as the Futurekind from the third series of Doctor Who. The siege element was very much like a zombie film, like Night of the Living Dead and Dawn of the Dead (both versions) and when Michael has to battle his way through a lot of Angels it was like the scene in The Matrix when Neo raids a building and throws away different guns when he uses up the bullets. Also I thought the story reminded me a little of the Doctor Who episodes the Impossible Planet and The Satan Pit, where Satan takes control of an alien species and attacks a small group of humans in a space station. Those episodes were better then Legion.Legion is basically an exploitation film, but will intentions of being something smarter. It is set around a three action scenes involving the siege, a prologue scene and a final fight scene. It is violence and is almost like a Uwe Boll film with the use of children in the horror. It is done simply for shock value. There is early promise when Michael falls to Earth and he hacks off his wings. But Stewart does film some of the action scenes with almost no light and make its hard to see anything. The fight between Michael and Gabriel should have been epic but the lack of light ruined it.Many of the other characters in the film are simply stock characters and we do not get to know much about them. Stewart pretends to give them depth but it fails. We just do not care about them. It is fun to look at Willia Holland dressed in a short skirt and a low crop top but the film really does suffer when Bettany and Durand are not on screen.3.5/10.
The late 60s and early 70s was a great period for cinema. It was a period where films were becoming more gritty and more violence, like The Good, the Bad and the Ugly, and more crime and police films became a major force in the box-office. This included films like Dirty Harry, the French Connection, Serpico and The Godfather films. Bullitt was one of the first films in this tread.Lieutenant Frank Bullitt (Steve McQueen) is a hero cop in the San Francisco Police Department and he is assigned the case to protect a major informant for 40 hours by Walter Chalmers (Robert Vaughn). But when the informant, Johnny Ross is killed by a two hit men Bullitt suspects foul play. He hides the death from his superior and sets out to find the hit men and the wider crime involving 'the Organisation'. All this is going on as he lives a life of loneliness and attempts a relationship British woman, Cathy (Jacqueline Bisset).Under the expert direction of Peter Yates Bullitt is a tense, exciting little action thriller. With an use of camera work, settings and music Yates was able to add a lot of tension and did it will little action. Yates attempts to make the film more gritty, showing that getting shot is messy and that many of the crimes take place in less glamour areas. The crimes were kept simple and despite the film being set in San Francisco it was not a travelogue for that city (which is a strength). The car chase scene is incredible, a full-throttle experience of two car going through San Francisco and the outskirts. The scene was so well shot and edited, with cars being place in the cars, with one bit almost being point-of-view from Bullitt and an effective use of zooming and panning the camera. It was refreshing to see that an older film just places the camera in the right place and just allows the action to happen, rather then have a lot of shaky cam shots and quick cuts: this is how to film a car chase people! Yates was also able to inject a little style when he filmed the opened credit sequence, using the letters of people to show a different location of the action. Sometimes the pacing was a little a too slow, but Yates was trying to show a bit of character development. It was also very interesting to see the cops in action, whether it was looking a murder still or looking a evidence in the lab.Acting wise the film was decent. McQueen was always a strong lead in whatever he did, whether it was the Great Escape to The Magnificent Seven. He was very convincing as an action hero and as a resource cop who plays by his own rules. Many of the supporting police give the usual performance required for that role in the 60s and 70s, speak in a gruff and rough voice. Norman Fell was an example of this as the police captain who protects Bullitt. Vaughn as fine as a unlikeable politician and Paul Genge and Pat Renella were strong with roles that required little speaking. It actually added to the power of the film and their performances.The plot itself was perfectly, mixing the right amount of realism and fantasy. But it was focused or developed too much because it was really an excuse for Bullitt to work alone and catch the bad guys.An enjoyable film.
The original play by John Patrick Shanley, Doubt: A Parable won a Pulitzer Prize and won near universal praise. He returned to his material, writing and directing the screen adaptation which obviously designed to gain award nominated but also a powerful showcasing of acting.Doubt is set in a Catholic area of New York in 1964, telling the conflict of a strict conservative nun and principal Sister Aloysius (Meryl Streep) and a modern, popular priest Father Flynn (Philip Seymour Hoffman). Sister Aloysius is very old fashioned woman, believing a strict interpretation of the Bible and old fashion values on disciple, whilst Flynn believes the results come from being more friendly with the children and wants the church to be more open and modern. He is an effective teacher. In the middle is Sister James (Amy Adams), a young and naïve history teacher who ends up becoming suspicious about Flynn's relationship with Donald Miller (Joseph Foster), the school's only black student. Aloysius believes the worst and sets out to bring down the priest.There is a lot of ideas and themes in Doubt, showing that Shanley is a skilled writer. There are ideas of the battle between liberals and conservatives in religion, that the Catholic Church was run by men, the aging members of the organisation's leadership, how the church would deal with abuse allegations (it was not a coincidence that this film was set in the 60s) and expertly adds questions on child abuse and what Aloysius' motives for her witch-hunt. Some of the issues have parallels today, that in Catholicism the priesthood and nunneries are aging and that there is no new generation to take. The ideas of liberals and conservatives is a constant battle since the creation of religion: people who want to fight the modern world and people who want to agree we live in the modern world, I personally side with liberals. Doubt shows that church just pass problems priests on and that it was a boys club.Shanley does an excellent job raising doubt about Father Flynn where scenes between Flynn and Donald can easily be interrupted as either the two being too close or simply a caring priest comforting a boy. There are questions like was Donald targeted because he was isolated because of his skin-colour and that his father beat him, making him to gloom or that Flynn knows Donald's problems and that he simply see potential in the boy. There is a lot of ambiguity in the film.But even though Shanley shows he is a good writer and director some moments of his direction is a little heavy handed like when the lights blow out or the use of an almighty gale.Shanley captures the nature of school live and early 60s New York. There is strong dialogue and keeps the characterisation of the young people down to Earth. He keeps the tone realistic and sinister without it having to be grim and depressing.Shanley gets the best out of his actors, placing the camera in the right place and lets them do their thing. Streep and Hoffman are both great actors and act as yin and yang to each other, representing the different ideas of the church. They have serious animosity between the two and both were worthy of actor nods. Amy Adams was also very strong and shows potential as a kind-hearted, naïve young nun cause in the middle. She shows a kind nature of Christianity and tries to embodies both Flynn and Aloysius ideas on the religion. Adams was able to hold her own with the more established actors. She has come a long way from Cruel Intentions 2. Viola Davis in her show her talent in her short amount of screen, showing a mother wanting to her son's education first. I thought it bold move by Shanley not to even give Oprah Winfery a reading when she was lobbying for the role. He stuck to his guns and hired a lesser known actress.Doubt is a actors film with universally excellent performances. Yet Shanley was able to add a lot of deep, characterisation, themes, ideas and commentary about the church and society. An excellent film.
After 12 years with his success with Titanic, the great action director James Cameron is back with the long-waited Avatar. Avatar is the most expensive film ever made, a possible revolution in cinema technology and 3D, and a massive gamble for Fox studios who under Tom Rothman have become the laughing stock of Hollywood (Rothman himself is still derided and hated though). There was a lot of hype surrounding the film, and some feared that it would underwhelm audience, but luckily it didn't.On the moon planet Pandora, the RDA corporation is trying to mine the planet for unobtainium, the most valuable resource known to man. The Na'vi tribes people, a tall, blue skinned, nature loving, cat like people, live on the abundant source of it. The Company is willing to use military force, led by Colonel Miles Quaritch (Stephen Lang), a tough military man. Dr. Grace Augustine (Sigourney Weaver), a scientist wants to study the people and wildlife, and wants to use diplomacy to convince the Na'vi to move to a different site. She wants to win hearts and minds by educating the Na'vi. Here Jake Scully (Sam Worthington), a disabled former Marine, steps in. His twin brother had died, but he is a biological match to his Avatar, a genetically created Na'vi which human being could transfer their minds in. On a scientific mission Jake gets separated from the team and ends up meeting a native Na'vi, Neytiri (Zoë Saldaña). He joins the tribe, starts to learn their ways, their love and link to nature and starts to fall for Neytiri. But Jake is stuck in a three way conflict between the military (who he promises to give them intelligence), the scientists who want to study the planet and befriend the Na'vi, and the Na'vi themselves which he gains their trust, and where his loyalties belongs.The story is nothing too original, their are elements of films like Lawrence of Arabia and The Last Samurai where an outside becomes a member of close knit tribe, the Matrix with the idea of transferring your mind into another body and allows you to do extraordinary things and the Alien series where a company is responsible for aggressive action. The story and theme of colonisation in the film was properly influenced by America's actions in the Wild West against Native Americans, but to me it reminded me of the East India Company and colonisation in Africa where forming colonies was influenced by private business, not government action. James Cameron is an excellent writer and crafts a lot of different ideas and plot in an brilliant film. There are a lot of factions and themes which are well told and Cameron follows his old ideas of character development. His classics like the Terminator and Aliens were great because of the characters, not just the action. All the characters are interesting, my personal favourite was Neytiri but all were given a chance to shine. As well as the theme of colonisation, the Vietnam and Iraq wars much have influenced Cameron. Iraq because of a military invasion of a foreign people for a valuable resource, and because of Vietnam and Iraq because a technological superior force is outnumbered and in a foreign climate. The last theme is the idea of technology against nature and the balance of live. The Na'vi are linked to nature and it's a part of their culture and religion, whilst the humans just destroy nature without a care. A commentary about Global Warning in today's world? Cameron is follow the Gaia hypothesis where the world is a living being with everything being interlinked.What James Cameron is truly great at is action, and of course action is some of the best ever put to screen. As an action film by itself Avatar is the best of 2009 (though District 9 and Inglorious Basterds were very good). You actually get to see the action, the camera follows it, not shaking about or too close so you can't see anything. It is well edited and just a join to watch compared to some modern action films. Cameron transfers you to another world. He creates a beautiful world with wonderful designs, and with great creature designs as well. It reminds me of King Kong (both the 1933 and 2005 versions). Cameron did put a lot of thought into the history and culture of the Na'vi as well. The CGI is fantastic and the 3D is brilliant. It was so well done that it added depth to the film, giving it a more hands on feel. However I think 3D life Avatar are going to be few and far between, with 3D mostly being the reserve of animated films and B-Movie horror.There is a good cast, that goes without saying. Zoë Saldaña, Stephen Lang and Sigourney Weaver are of particular note of praise. Sigourney Weaver almost reminded of her role as Dian Fossey in Gorillas in the Mist. Sam Worthington is clearly a star in the making, having stole the show in Terminator Salvation and now having the lead role in Avatar, I am looking forward to Clash of the Titans next year. It's also good to see Michelle Rodriguez career back on track.There are some criticism of the film. First it's a bit too long, with a running time over two and half hours, and there are elements that could have been cut or shorten. Some of the dialogue was weak, and at times stated the obvious. I think Cameron was trying to come up with some more classic one-lines. And finally, as stated, some ideas and story elements were copied from other films.Worth watching, and one of the most fun films I seen in the cinema for a whilst.
There is nothing like a grand martial arts epic, and few can do better then Zhang Yimou, director of Hero and House of Flying Daggers.In the year 928 AD the Chinese Royal Family are about to celebrate the Chong Yang Festival. The Emperor (Chow Yun Fat) and his second son Prince Jai (Jay Chou), had been fighting at the frontier and are returning to the Forbidden City. The Empress (Gong Li), a strong woman and the Emperor's second wife, was in charge of the preparations, but showing signs of being ill. With the court of Forbidden City there are dealings, plots, secrets and power-plays. There are affairs, and murder plots. The Empress discovers that she has been poisoned on orders on the Emperor. She discovers his secrets and plots to overthrow him with aid of her son.The art-direction and costumes are fantastic. It is bright, grand and colourful, a wonder to the eye. The cinematography is also of a high calibre.As a film Curse of the Golden Flower is the Chinese version of a costume drama. It is melodrama at times, but all the court relationships and subplots all come together. It is a story of revenge, grandeur and a family falling apart.Zhang Yimou is known as a martial arts director, and his action scene are great. There is no exceptions here, particular in the beginning. It is over-the-top, but if you enjoy other Chinese epics like Warlords, and Red Cliff you should enjoy this.The acting is of a good standard. Chow Yun-Fat is one of the best actor/material artist from China and Hong Kong. He role is fairly small, but he does play a villain effectively. Gong Li is also an especially actress in China and Hong Kong, acting in a lot of successful films. She is an effective screen presence, but she did seem to young to have two adult sons. Jay Chou was also a decent actor in this film.I think out of Zhang Yimou's three epics, Curse of the Golden Flower is the weakest: but it is still a very entertainment film and worth watching.
One of the biggest film franchises has finally come to an end. We have seen around 20 hours of magical fun, way over $6 Billion revenues, made stars out of its three main actors and been a major boost for the British film industry. It was a fitting end to the series.Picking off where Part 1 left off, Harry (Daniel Radcliffe), Ron (Rupert Grint) and Hermione (Emma Watson) have destroyed one of Voldermort's Horcruxes and need to find the reminding three. They go to Gringotts Bank to break into Bellatrix Lestrange's (Helena Bonham Carter) vault to retrieve of the Horcluxes. When they get it they know they need to go Hogwarts, now run by Professor Snape (Alan Rickman). Professor McGonagall (Maggie Smith) defends him Harry search for the last Horcruxes, Ravencroft's Diadem whilst Voldermort (Ralph Fiennes) and his forces plan to attack the school. And whilst this goes on Harry finds out the truth behind his past, his family and Snape's.All the previous films in the series had a long time scale, normally lasting months, this Harry Potter film takes place over the space of a few days, starting with a bank heist and the majority of the film being a battle. This makes the final Harry Potter a little different to the rest of the series and it was a very quick film with all the events happening at once. The mystery has to be figured quickly and Part 2 is certainly an action packed film. The director David Yates has done a wonderful job with series, able to make the series more darker and mature, making sure the drama and character development is fully realised but also making sure there is plenty of action and comedy. Whilst I think Alfonso Cuaron was the best director overall the series had, Yates clearly did an excellent job, making sure his films are stylist and he has made the transition from TV director to Blockbuster director. The action in excellent and the battle itself reminded me of the Battle for Helm's Deep in Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers. It reminds me of that for two reasons, first that it was fought in a tight location, but mainly because it was cut with Harry searching for the Horcrux and seeing how individual fighting in the middle of it all. Yates also made sure there was plenty of drama and emotion throughout the film, mix with moments of humour.Acting wise Daniel Radcliffe, Rupert Grint and Emma Watson are solid with what they have to do and obviously improved from the first film. Radcliffe is actor I personally believe will be the most successful after the Harry Potter series. Whilst Part 1 focused on the main three characters, Part 2 was mostly Harry's story focusing mostly on him. Maggie Smith is finally allowed to shine as Professor McGonagall as she leads the defend of Hogwarts. Alan Rickman has always been a great actor and no actor could have done the role better, but with Part 2 he made sure that Snape was not just a cold character but brought out the complicated nature of Snape. Fiennes showed that that Voldermort was becoming scared and more irrational when each part of his soul was destroyed and as Harry said in the film, becoming a wounded animal, making him more dangerous. Many of our favourite characters return to the film, even if it was just for a cameo, like Emma Thompson.Whilst Part 2 is a very entertaining film, my one major criticism is because the film was made to be in 3D some of the set pieces were very obvious, like the break into the Bank where it looked like a theme park ride. But for the most part it was a very enjoyable film.With the Harry Potter series we got to see these characters grow, not just the main three, but also people like Neville Longbottom who started as a clumsy and incompetent boy who grew into a brave young man and had skills as a wizard. We were slowly brought into this world, learning the rules, the norms, the society and its history and it is good to see a series has a real end game and not a forced ending like the X-Men 'trilogy'.
Reservoir Dogs is the film that made Tarantino reputation, and shows why he is one of the coolest directors around. Its crime film that is more then a crime film, and shows Tarantino's talent.Reservoir Dogs is about a heist gone wrong, with one member of the gang dead, and another, Mr. Orange (Tim Roth) dying. He and Mr. White (Harvey Keitel) race to the gang's meeting place, a warehouse, with Mr. Pink (Steve Buscemi) already waiting. They quickly discovery that a informant must have been in their ranks and they need to find out who he is, and get out alive. The story is relieved in flashbacks, relieving who the characters are how they got involved and what when wrong, without showing the heist itself. It is a trademark of Tarantino that served him well, and a homage to the Kubrick film 'The Killing'.What makes Tarantino such a good writer/director is he is a masterful storyteller, creating an interesting plot, but also he does not stick to conventions. He does not tell story in a linger fashion, and does not show what really happens. They is a large amount of violence which is well done, showing how one of the characters, Mr. Blonde (Michael Madsen), was a sadist. They is full character development, and he make characters you can be interested in. They is a great cast, Tim Roth, Harvey Kietel, Michael Madsen, Steve Buscemi, Chris Penn and Lawrence Tierney. All are talented actors and for most of them, Reservior Dogs shows them at their best. Another strength of Tarantino's is writing dialogue, with the famous beginning involving a conversation about Madonna's 'Like a Virgin' and Mr. Pink's views on tipping. It is both natural, and clever at the same time. Tarantino has an understanding of pop-culture and the English language.As well as the essential aspect film making, they is also an excellent soundtrack, another feature of Tarantino.An essential film.
Tell No One does to French cinema what the Infernal Affairs Trilogy did to Hong Kong cinema, make a Hollywood style thriller with elements of that nation's own cinema, and do it well.Based on an American thriller novel, the film tells the story of Dr. Alex Beck (François Cluzet), a pediastian from France. His wife, Margot (Marie-Josée Croze), is murdered one night in the countryside and a serial killer was convicted for the crime. Eight years later Alex is unable to move on from the murder, despite the best efforts of his friends and family. One day Alex receives an e-mail and it shows video footage of a woman that looks a lot like Margot. Alex is quickly consumed by the video and tries to put the pieces together. He has to do it on the run from the police who thinks Alex is a murderer, and a group of assassins wanting information about Margot.Tell No One is a very fast paced, interesting thriller, filled with twists and keeps you guessing. There is a fine script and is really well acted, with an excellent cast. No one lets the film down and there are a number of compelling characters. The director Guillaume Canet has a good vision style, with some good shots, like François Cluzet and Kirsten Scott Thomas in the car, the action scene on the Beltway and the use of continuous shots in emotional scenes. He uses both traditional 50s/60s techniques for emotional scenes, and used the hand-held style for the action styles, like in the Bourne series. The film also has a very Hitchcockian feel, an ordinary man thrown into an extraordinary situation. The mystery is kept going and is done every well.A fine mix of French and Hollywood cinema.
The Western genre has often been the domain of American filmmakers, with Akira Kurosawa who transferred the genre to Medieval Japan. However in recent years they have been non-American entries look at their own version of the Wild West. Here is an Australian effort and it can easily challenge some of the best Westerns out at the moment.Set in the late 19th Century, Captain Stacey (Ray Winstone), give the Irish outlaw Charlie Burns (Guy Pierce) that he finds difficult to refuse: he will share Charlie and his slow-witted younger brother Mikey (Richard Wilson) from the Gallows in exchange for Charlie killing his older psychopathic brother Arthur (Danny Huston). Charlie pretty much has to take it, but it tests his morality to the limit. Captain Stacey also lives a tough live. He is a British veteran, given the task to bring law and order to the Outback, fight Aboriginal resistance and protect his wife Martha (Emily Watson) from the tough world and keep her innocence. He too lives in a tricky moral world, not really wanting to kill Mikey who he sees as a pawn of his brothers, despite what the local community think.The world set out by the director John Hillcoat is not a nice fantasy world. The Outback of Australia was grim, and here he makes a really grim and gritty Western with realistic violence and shows the harsh climate of that part of the world. Hillcoat understands that world and he seems to have a bright future. His adaption of The Road looks promising. He shows the mix picture within the groups and the international make-up of Australia at the time.Nick Cave writes an excellent script, showing the moral issues that affect the characters, from Captain Stacey protecting his wife and bringing law and order to the Outback, to Charlie's loyalty to his brothers. Many have they own case for you to support them. This was not a black and white world. Cave also writes a good score for the film.They are excellent actors in this film. Ray Winstone offers one of his strongest performances and I would like to see him in more roles like this. Guy Pierce, a actor of great talent, offers another good performance and has an excellent Irish accent. Emily Watson is directed well in this film. So was Danny Huston. Even many of the supporting actors like John Hurt and Richard Wilson had chances to shine.An excellent film for Western fans.
There was a lot of buzz when Martha Marcy May Marlene came out in cinema, particularly for its young star Elizabeth Olsen, younger sister to the Olsen twins. Olsen and the writer/director Sean Durkin won big at the Sundance Film Festival and Mx4 was easily one of the best films of 2012 so far (based on UK release dates).Martha (Olsen) is a traumatised young woman who runs away from a cult in upstate New York. She calls the only person she can, her sister Lucy (Sarah Paulson). She stays with Lucy and her husband Ted (Hugh Dancy) in their country retreat in Connecticut. But Martha struggles to adapt, her behaviour is socially unacceptable and Lucy struggles to help her sister. At the same time Martha has memories of her time at the cult and soon her memories and reality start to mix together.Like everyone else the best feature of Martha Marcy May Marlene is the acting from the whole cast. Olsen and co. gave very natural, believable performances which were enhanced by Durkin's script and his minimalist direction, helping enhance their performances. But Durkin's directional is not simply a point the camera and shoot, it is simply a more subtle approach showing the world as it is, a potential dark place where horrible things can happen. There is a deliberately restrained style as Durkin uses one take shots and as set pieces are simply seen like that, whether using a static camera or a hand-held cameras.It was easy to believe Martha's psychological torment as she struggles to adapt back into society and plagued by her memories. There is excellent editing, making a well crafted story as we see both narratives, seeing the horrible dark elements of the cult which involving drugging, rape, violence, stealing and murder. Olsen and Paulson had a great relationship together, both acting like sisters, both having their own problems, as Lucy is unable to help her sister and both becoming resentful towards each other. It was handled in a believable manner, but the domestic situation and the eerily calm within the cult, being like the Mason family lite.As a story this was the film I wanted the Greek film Dogtooth to be, seeing how a cult functions and seeing the impact on someone who left them, the psychological scars that they would suffer. This is not an art house experiment, it was a proper narrative story.There were moments where Martha Marcy May Marlene does occasionally drag and a little slow. A couple of minutes could have been cut, but on the whole M x4 is very compelling, intelligently made film with a great cast and script. It is certainly worthy viewing.
Many people consider that one of the greatest injustices at the 81st Academy Awards was the fact Gomorrah was not nominated for the Best Foreign Language Film, an injustice that ranks along side The Dark Knight and Wall-E not being nominated. This happened despite Gomorrah winning a lot of prizes at the festival circuit, including the Grand Prix at Cannes. So the Academy had no real reason not to nominate the film.Gomorrah tells five small stories set in tower blocks of Napoli and the affects that the Mafia and organised crime has one them. Some are interlinked whilst some are separate. This film tells the stories of low ranks and higher ranks of the Mafia. The first story tells of how the clan of the members is on the edge of a gang war, Don Ciro (Gianfelice Imparato) is in the middle of it, a man who distributes money to families of imprisoned men. In the tower blocks of Napoli is a young boy Toto (Salvatore Abruzzese) who groceries for pocket money. But he is slowly bought into the lower levels of the Mafia with promises of fun, money and girls, but also introduced to a world of violence. Within the higher levels of the Mafia Franco (Toni Servillo) and his young protégé Roberto (Carmine Paternoster) bid for a contract to dump toxic waste for city. They could undercut the competition simply by dumping it illegally in a abandoned quarry. But Roberto soon doubts his actions seeing the affects of his actions. Within a factory a skilled tailor Pasquale (Salvatore Cantalupo) gets an offer from a rival Chinese factory to train the employees. But Pasquale runs the risk of upsetting his paymasters, the Mafia who own the factory he works for. The final story involves Marco (Marco Macor) and Ciro (Ciro Petrone), two teenagers and wannabe gangsters. They are obsessed with the 1980s version of Scarface and end up annoying the local Mafia clan when their rob an African gang. They end up annoying the Mafia clan even more when their steal their weapons and start playing gangster even harder.This is clear an excellent film which even more impressive considering how strong a year 2008 was. They is excellent acting through and hopefully Gomorrah could act as a rebirth for Italian cinema. Here Matteo Garrone co-writes and directs an excellent complex film about the Mafia and general working class life in the Southern Italian city. He uses hand-held cameras to give Gomorrah a documentary feel, having a number of long uncut shots. He shows a more gritty realistic view of this section of life, showing that their is no glamour in gangsterism, which is a curse of British cinema (i.e. Guy Ritchie films and many other British gangster films). He shows that this is a violence work and it also acts as a social commentary on local politics and working class culture. Garrone shows his skill being able to interlink some of the story together. Gomorrah is of course a very important film and tells an important story. But it does suffer from some slightly convoluted at times, making the film is a little too confusing. One of the story could have been drop to help simplify the story and make it a little easier to follow.An excellent film and a must see for fans of gangster films.
Superhero films are a common stable of blockbuster cinema ever since 2000: but it is a genre that dominated by Marvel and DC have been lagging behind. The Christopher Nolan Batman films have been their only real success. DC and Warner Brothers hoped to redress the balance by starting up the Green Lantern series.For millions of years they has been a organisation that has been guarding the universe, The Guardian. They have been able to cultivate the green energy of willpower and form it into rings for people who are fearless to act as a galactic police force, the Green Lantern Corp. But an old threat has re-emerged, the entity of yellow fear, Parallax (Clancy Brown) and it able to kill the Lantern's best agent Abin Sur (Temuera Morrison).On Earth Hal Jordan (Ryan Reynolds) is a arrogant test pilot who is a very immature and reckless. He seems a unlikely candidate to be Abin Sur's replacement, but he is the next Green Lantern, the first human to earn the role. He has to learn quickly on the planet of Oa, being overwhelmed by his new responsibilities.Also on Earth a secret government organisation find Abin Sur's body and biologist Hector Hammond (Peter Sarsgaard) has to do the autopsy. But during it he is infected with some of Parallax's DNA. Hammond develops psychic powers and Parallax's dark side affects him.As you can tell there is a lot of different story elements and the film makers did not seem to know where to focus their attend. Even in the Extended Cut it was a lot and the Extended Cut was only around a hour and 50 minutes. Sometimes films can fit a lot in a short package like Wall-E, Rise of the Planet of the Apes and X-Men, but Green Lantern does not seen to manage that. The seems to be a clash of tones, from being very serious and dark to a be light and humorous. I am sure that Martin Campbell wanted to make a serious film seeing he is normally a serious director but the producers saw the success of Iron Man, one of Marvel's lesser know characters and he was turned into a successful film series and wanted make a more lighter film. The tonal shift was particularly noticeable between the scenes on Earth and the scenes in space.As a film Green Lantern did not know who to focus on, having too major villains that do not really do much. We have Hammond who could have been a mirror to the Hal Jordon, having to get use to the new powers he has acquired and acting as a origin story for him as well. Or the story could have focused on the unstoppable force that is needs the whole of the Green Lantern Corp to stop them, forcing their leader Sinestro (Mark Strong) to explore his dark side, foreshadowing his turn as a villain in a sequel. There was not a right balance on who to focus on.Ryan Reynolds is not the best choice as the leading man. He looked the part but he was too comic for the most part and that did not fit the role. He is meant to be a former air force pilot but he did not seem like he was ex-military, particularly someone who is meant to be a handling multi-million dollar jets he too reckless. He gets a bit better near the end as he becomes more serious but he is not Robert Downey Jr. like he was trying to be. He came off more like Chris Evans' version of Johnny Storm. Blake Lively seems too young for the role and that is being kind, because she was not a good actress. Sarsgaard was hamming it up when he was meant to be playing a more tortured character. The best performers were from the aliens, Strong (who is always a professional), Morrison, Geoffrey Rush and Michael Clarke Duncan who in no more then a cameo. Most of the cast did not seem to put their heart in this film compared to say the X-Men films, Nolan's Batman or the new Bond films.Whilst it is clear that Campbell is not a special effects director he does provide some good if slightly cartoony CGI and the action was well handled for the most part. A problem was that the Green Lantern was not very inventive with his psychic creations and felt a bit cheesy, particular with the car and racetrack. I know it was a troubled production and Campbell was very public about his disdain for 3D and well, he was not the right director for the project. He did his best, but he is known for making more grounded, gritty work like he did with the Bond series. Green Lantern needed a director that could take you to another world like what Kenneth Brangh did with Thor or Peter Jackson and Ridley Scott are constantly good at. Another similarity to Iron Man was a revel at the midway point of something (I won't say what) which turns out to be very useful later on.As an origin story this Green Lantern offers us nothing we have not seen before. There are problems involving character development and even with the extended cut some elements felt like they were left out. Admittedly Green Lantern is a harder sell to mainstream audiences then some other superhero characters and DC do what Joss Wheadon calls a God complex with them having very powerful heroes. As superhero film it is not the best but still better then say the Fantastic Four. It was just a bit generic blockbuster.
When I heard that a third Shrek film was going to be made I was hoping that it would be a good film, considering that the first two were really good films. Unforuately, for adults this film was a real disappointment, and nothing in comparion to the first two.In Shrek the Third, King Harold has become ill and it is left to Shrek and Fiona to rule the kingdom of Far Far Away. When King Harold dies his makes Shrek his successor, despite the fact he doesn't want to be king. However, there is another heir, Arthur (Justin Timberlake), and Shrek, Donkey and Puss-in-Boots, goes in search of the young gentleman. Fiona at the same time tells Shrek that she is pregnant, which leads to Shrek doubting whether he could be a good father. Meanwhile Prince Charming plots to take over Far Far Away whilst Shrek is absent, and he gets all the fairy tale villains he can to assist him.The problem with this film is that it feels more force and dumbed itself down. There are less cultural jobs, and more low-brow jobs. The whole point of Shrek that it was a little smarter and a little more high-brow. It meant that it applied to adults and children. The first two Shrek film will last the test of time, but I think that this film will not be remembered. The parody in this film in this film is not as good, the focus on an American style High-School was not a good move. The creation of Artie was not a good character. There were still a couple of jokes, like Puss-in-Boots and his girlfriends, and Queen Lillian smashing out of prison, but I again, it felt force. Puss-in-Boots was underused, and he was a great character. The film was also more clichéd, and looked for plot devices, such as Donkey and Puss swapping bodies. The animation was still top-notch, and it is not the worst kids film ever made. Kids will still enjoy it, but as I say it's not so good for adults.
From DreamWorks studios comes its latest animated adventure, the prehistoric family comedy The Croods. It is a slapstick-heavy family movie that should delight young children and keep parents entertained.The Croods are the last remaining family in an arid desert landscape. They have survived by following family patriarch Grug's (Nicolas Cage) rules to the letter, including staying in the cave after dark and fearing anything that seems new (new is BAAAD). Despite this, teenage daughter Eep (Emma Stone) wants to break free and rebels against her father, which results in a chance meeting with the highly inventive Guy (Ryan Reynolds), who warns her that the end of the world is nigh. When the Croods' cave is destroyed, the family is forced on a journey into a strange new world where Grug's rules clash with Guy's techniques for survival.The Croods is a formulaic movie that sticks to a traditional hero's journey and relies on typical archetypes, but it's elevated by the writing and direction of Kirk DeMicco and How to Train Your Dragon's Chris Sanders. Like Sanders' previous work, The Croods focuses on a family's dynamic and relationships. This time, the focus is on a protective father who wants to protect his family physically and protect his daughter from a member of the opposite sex who suddenly challenges his position as the alpha male. While the trailers and first half of the movie made is seem Eep was the main character, it's actually Grug who goes through the greatest change and learns the biggest lessons.The story is one about learning, exploring, and using one's intelligence. It also touches on the idea that it's unhealthy to live a sheltered life. But at times, the movie lays it on a bit too much with Guy and his "solutions" leaving Grug on the losing end.Most of the humour used in The Croods is very physical and slapstick oriented. Characters have Loony Toons levels of invincibility as they endure intense physical pain. This type of humour obviously appeals to fairly young children, but I would be lying if I said I did not laugh at the film at all. The Croods avoids using crude toilet humour to generate cheap laughs. There is not much in the way of verbal humour, but there are some running gags, and modernisms are kept to a minimum. They are still there but they are more putting modern products in a Stone Age setting, a little like The Flintstones, so they serve more as pop-cultural winks to adults.As expected from a DreamsWork movie the animation is fantastic. It's quick and fluid, and the camera flows nicely as it follows the action. The Croods themselves have a seemingly unpleasant, bulky design to them but it actually works in the context of the film because the characters live in the wild, so big and broad makes sense. It is a little refreshing to see the main female character is not made out to be a stunning beauty, but rather someone who has been shaped by her environment. The beginning of the movie starts with in dry, mono-coloured landscapes before we get to see the bright colours of the jungle and continually seeing the weird creature reminiscence of designs of Sanders' previous works.Like other animated movies these days, The Croods has a big name voice cast and they also do a decent, if standard job. No one disgraces themselves. Cage is an unusual choice, but he gives a strong performance. There is only one time when Cage is let off the handle; Unfortunately, that is when we are experiencing the most modernism the movie has to offer.The Croods is not going to match the heights of DreamsWorks major hits of Shrek, Kung Fu Panda, and How to Train Your Dragon. But it certainly does not belong with the dregs the studio has to offer. It does what it sets out to do: make a movie that will please children while attempting to give a positive message and some heart. It has an old-fashioned sense of humour that leads to a surprisingly enjoyable animated movie.Please visit www.entertainmentfuse.com
The 2010 remake of Clash of the Titans was a critical failure but it made money, which resulted with the big wigs at Warner Brothers to produce a sequel no one wanted. It was made even worst when Jonathan Liebesman, the director of the awful Battle Los Angeles, was hired to make this sequel. But Wrath of the Titans is a much better film to the 2010 version and solves some of the problems of the original.10 years after the events of Clash of the Titans Perseus (Sam Worthington) lives a simple live with his son Helius (John Bell) after the death of his wife Io. But problems are occurring in the world of the Gods as they are losing their powers due to humans no longer worshipping them and many of them have died. Even worst the walls of Tartarus, the prison holding the titan Kronos, are crumbling and when Zeus (Liam Neeson) and Poseidon (Danny Huston) seek Hades' (Ralph Fiennes) help they are betrayed Hades and Ares (Edgar Rameriz) betray them and plan to let Kronos loose on the world. It is up to Perseus, Queen Andromeda of Argos (Rosamund Pike) and Poseidon's demi-god son Agenor (Toby Kebbell) to save Zeus and stop Kronos.Wrath of the Titans is a by the numbers fantasy film, but it does have a scene of fun and a solid adventure into Greek mythology. Wrath of the Titans does follow a similar path of to Clash of the Titans as our group of heroes have to go on a quest to find a weapon to stop an impending threat, the writing and progression of the sequel was a lot more natural. It could easily be argued that Wrath of the Titans has a video style plotting of the characters having to a bigger and harder level but there are no real deus ex machina this time round where are characters are saved in the nick of time.There is a general improvement across the board and the film has a greater scene of fun. The comedy relief is an upgrade with Agenor basically being a Jack Sparrow esque rogue and Bill Nighy was highly entertaining as Hephaestus, a fallen God who has become insane and argues with himself, using his Davy Jones voice. There is also an update in the acting for the most part, with Neeson and Fiennes actually seem invested in their performances and there were given a little more depth compared to their previous incarnations. This is especially the case with Fiennes' version of Hades who is someone who felt betrayed and feared death and was more then just the de facto villain he is normally in modern versions of Greek mythology.Liebesman does show great competent with the CGI and he has improved a lot with his action direction. Whilst his hand held approach is not the most suitable and he does have a tendency to over edit his fight scenes, you can at least comprehend what was happening and there was creative creature designs throughout the film. Some action sequences were better then others, the worst being a fight in the labyrinth into the underworld where Perseus fights a Minotaur in a scene that was too heavily edit and too dark to see anything. The action is solid for the most part, particular the first fight scenes and the final battle and the fight with Ares in massive presence simply for being a God and there is very little that could stop him. He was a solid villain.Worthington was sadly wooden as ever and his performances in Terminator Salvation and Avatar seem to be flukes at this point. Wrath of the Titans also brisks along a very pace and only has a 90 minute running time; there is no time to fresh out the world and there are problems with the army scenes because the army looked a lot smaller then it was meant to be.Wrath of the Titans is not going to be a film that will set the world alight but it is a solid enough fantasy adventure which is worth checking out if you are already interested in seeing it. It is much better then a sequel to a poor film should have been and its IMDb score of 5.7/10 is a little harsh. A 6.5/10 would have been more fitting.
Back in 2001 The Fast and the Furious was released in cinema and was a hit; but who would have thought this series would have lasted for five films, with at least two more on the way. Even more surprising is that the fifth film of the series is considered the best of the series.Fast Five starts where Fast & Furious left off, with Brian O'Conner (Paul Walker) and Mia Toretto (Jordana Brewster) breaking Dominic (Vin Diesel) out of a prison and the three flee to Rio de Janeiro. Running low on cash Brian and Mia agree to do rob cars from the DEA on a train but end up crossing crime lord Hernan Reyes (Joaquim de Almeida) who controls the Favelas of the city. With information about Reyes' operation, the trio form a team to make on of the most audacious robberies imaginable. But on their trial is Luke Hobbs (Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson), a Diplomatic Security Service agent sent by the FBI to bring Brian and Dominic back to America.Because of the success of the previous three films, Justin Lin has become a in demand director, being linked to The Wolverine and reboot of The Terminator and Highlander. He certainly shows he is a good action director, delivering solid action sequences like the early train robbery, the shootout and chase in the Favelas and the car chase in the city. They are crisp, well edited, fun and have physicality because of use of practical effects and stunt work. They were easily the best parts of the film, alone with Johnson's show stealing performance. He had the best lines and he has the charisma and physique to be threat. He was funny and this is the type of film Johnson should be doing instead of the family comedies he has been doing. The film needed more of him.Acting has never been a strong point of the series and fans want to see action sequences and car races/chases. Diesel is a decent action lead, he is certainly convincing during action scenes against Johnson. Brewster, Walker and Sung Kang are okay if a little flat. Tyresse Gibson is still annoying but is not quite the idiot he was in 2 Fast 2 Furious. Just do not expect any acting master classes. Though de Almeida is oily as ever.Plot and writing are fairly thin throughout. Fast Five is a heist film where they want to rob a big bad gangster whilst trying to avoid getting arrest themselves. The big twist is that they use muscle cars for the robbery. Originally Fast Five started life as a sequel to the remake of The Italian Job but obviously evolved into a Fast and Furious sequel. It is your typical heist film, a crew is assembled, they make their preparations and follow the mark or scan locations, etc. But there are some silly moments, from making out the heroes are Robin Hood figures but never really expand on it and show they want the money for themselves and not giving it to the poor. There are moments showing that the characters to be a bit stupid, such as racing in police cars when they were meant to be uncover (and coming to that shouldn't police cars be very difficult to rob) and when they steal the safe of money it causes millions of dollars of damage and possibly would have killed about a dozen people. A more serious criticism is considering the material the running time Fast Five is too long for what it is, compared to say X-Men: First Class which needed the same running time or Rise of the Planet of the Apes which fitted in more in less. A running time of about 1 hour 45 minutes would have been more fitting. There also the typical leery nature of filming women focusing on their breasts and butts, there was even a plot point based on this. This is just fan services for a young male crowd. Finally the humour does fall flat and the film should have been played a bit more straight.There are fun moments, certainly good action films and I do wish more films used practical effects these days. The plot is a little silly at times, it is over the top, but there are plenty of films from the 80s like that. It is not a great film but it is easy viewing.
1999 was a great year for film, with many great films releases that year: The Matrix, American Beauty, Being John Malkovich, Toy Story 2, The Sixth Sense are just a few examples. To join them was Fight Club, a controversial film based on a popular novel and directed by David Fincher, a man whom career was on the up.Edward Norton play an insurance clerk who was suffering from insomnia and struggles to deal with it. He starts by attending support groups for people suffering from long term illnesses to cope with his issues. Yet that disappears when Marla Singer (Helena Bonham Carter) starts to attend these meeting and takes away their edge. Whilst on a business trip the man meets Travis Durden (Brad Pitt), a soap maker and salesman. They quickly becomes friends and move in together into a dilapidated house. They also start to take joy when having fights and the popularity of these fights quickly expand into Fight Club. But under Travis' leadership Fight Club soon takes an even darker turn and it's up to the man to stop him and his plot.Fincher is a very skilled director and with Fight Club he gives audiences his most stylist film. He uses a lot of visual trick and starts to play around a lot more with the camera. He shows confidence with CGI and the nature of how it was used was fitting for the film. There is a dark style and tone throughout, Fincher does not hold back the violence or some of the more grim aspects of the film. There is a lot of dark humour in the film, particularly during the early part of the film. Fincher with a screenplay by Jim Uhls which is based on a novel by Chuck Palahniuk tell a very complex story and there is a lot of themes throughout. There are themes about people trying to find their identity, how the human mind works, criticisms of modern advertising and consumerism and how people could use it or become hypocrites, how a cult would function and of course, man's desire for violence and destruction. Despite it's title this film does not focus to much on the underground fighting. This is an intelligent film which will allow the audience to think.There is some excellent acting in this film with a great cast. Pitt and Norton were brilliant in the lead roles, with Pitt having a potent charisma throughout whilst Norton is effective as an everyman character of the piece. Bonham Carter was also great in this film and these 3 actors were a dream team together.An excellent film.
Over the years we have enjoyed the comedy, drama, parody and the blood splatter that Shaun of the Dead and Hot Fuzz had to offer. But all things have to come to an end and Edgar Wright and Simon Pegg's Cornetto Trilogy conclusion comes in form of the very entertaining and wonderful The World's End.Over twenty years ago five friends, Gary King (Pegg), Andy (Nick Frost), Steve (Paddy Considine), Ollie (Martin Freeman) and Peter (Eddie Marsan) attempted to complete the Golden Mile, a pub crawl of twelve pubs in the town of Newton Haven on their last day of school. Despite being unable to complete the pub crawl it was the best night of Gary's life and he has been living in the past ever since. Gary attempts to recreate the night and complete the pub crawl, despite the rest of the group having jobs and families. The pub crawl is complicated by Andy being a non-drinker and hostile towards Gary, Steve trying to win over his school crush, Sam (Rosamund Pike), Ollie's sister and the town's residents being replaced by robot copies in a very Invasion of the Body Snatchers, The Stepford Wives and They Live fashion. But Gary is not going to let these little nuisances get in the way of his drinking.The World's End will easily satisfy fans of Shaun of the Dead and Hot Fuzz, as the film rounds up the entire trilogy. The World's End is constantly funny throughout its running time, with many types of humor on display; we get witty lines and jokes, character interaction and dialogue, visual gags and physical humor during the action sequences. It has everything you would want and expect from a comedy and from this team.Pegg and Frost have a role reversal to their previous two films in the trilogy: Frost is now the straight man who has a dead-pan style and he is playing a successful corporate lawyer whilst Pegg is basically a man who has not grown beyond 18 and wants to recapture his youth, including keeping his car (the Beast), playing a mix tape Steve made him and keeps trying to score with Sam. He is especially the popular kid at school who did not adjust to the adult world. He is a character who'll manipulate and black mail people, but there is also a sadness to him and Pegg portrays him to what he really is, a loser.All the characters are well defined, with distinctive personalities and characters. We get to know all five of the group really well and they have a great rapport with each other. Wright and Pegg realize they are getting older and they play on the idea with the character being middle aged as they are ageing and moving on with their lives. But they all still have some sort of demon in their past, from Steve's divorce, Andy's refusal to drink and Pete being bullied at school.Like Wright's previous films The World's End is a fast paced and shows his amazing abilities with comedic timing and action. He continues to bring his kinetic energy and he brings very fast and fluid actions sequences. Wright works really well with cinematographer Bill Pope, his Scott Pilgrim vs. the World cinematographer but he is best known for his work on The Matrix Trilogy and Spider-man 2 and 3. Pope's visuals are evident with his high angles and camera movements during the fight sequences.As well as being well choreographed fight sequences, they all have plenty of comic visuals during them. All of them are highly entertaining, particularly the third major fight where during the mayhem and fighting Gary try to consider his precious pint. But due to the characters fighting robots, the level of violence is toned down and it is substituted with more swearing: the 'C' word was used twice.The scale for The World's End is much bigger then Shaun of the Dead and Hot Fuzz, despite the small town setting. There is much more use special effects and CGI, particularly in the final third and the film has a budget of £20 Million (around $30 Million) and that is a massive budget for a British production.Shaun of the Dead and Hot Fuzz were both very different to each other, but The World's End does share similarities to Shaun of the Dead, from the large number of enemies, the use of pubs and the strange air in the town. The World's End still have a very British favor with it setting, jokes and even commentary about chain pubs taking over independent watering holes.The World's End is a very funny, action packed and entertaining film. It is a fine conclusion to the Cornetto Trilogy, even if it does not quite match the heights of Shaun of the Dead and Hot Fuzz as its parody is not as cutting. But it is still a very distinctively British comedy that will please the majority of audiences.8.5/10 Please visit www.entertainmentfuse.com
Blood: the Last Vampire is an rarity, a Japanese film that is filmed in English. Based on a popular anime movie, Blood: the Last Vampire is a live action co-production between Japanese, Hong Kong and French production companies.Saya (Gianna Jun) is the last of her kind, 400-year-old a half-human, half-vampire in the body of a teenager. She is a skilled sword fighter and her mission in live is to hunt vampires and demons so she can feed. She works for a shadowy organisation called the Council, with the hope that she can get revenge against Onigen (Koyuki), the powerful demon leader who killed her father back in the 16th Century. Saya asked to investigate the killings of American soldiers on the Yokota Air Base, with a cover as a Japanese schoolgirl transferred into the American school. It is believed these murders would lead her to Onigen. But everything becomes more complex when an American teenager Alice (Allison Miller) is thrown into the middle of this secret war and Saya has to protect her.In all honesty Blood: the Last Vampire is not a good movie: the acting is horribly wooden, some of the action sequences are poorly edited and use camera angles that do not allow you to see the action and the CGI was done on the cheap. Event simply happen to Saya and she becomes a reactive character, not someone who seems to be hunting demons. Also the big plot-twist really did not comes as much as a surprise. But despite it all faults there is still some entertainment factors in the film. It is a no-nonsense, silly film that is packed with violence action, with blood filling the screen. It just fun to see a woman dressed as a Japanese schoolgirl slices and dices demons with a katana. Some of the action was similar to 300 with the amount of blood and severed limbs. But the forest scenes were little a like Elektra, a film people shouldn't really try to copy. This is a film that does not take it self too seriously. But it does not escape comparisons to Buffy the Vampire Slayer and Blade, with similarities ideas in the character and the plot, and those two were much stronger.It is understandable that the film was made in English because it would reach a wider audience, but it would have been much better if the film if the film was made mostly in Japanese (with American speaking English) and had an Asian director. Imagine what someone like Park Chan-Wook could have done with the action sequences and more plot in the script.A mindless film.
Vampires are in vogue at the moment, whether it is Twilight, True Blood, the Vampire Diaries and any other properties that are out at the moment. But many of them are aimed at a younger audience, so it is good to see a vampire film appeal to an adults once again.In 2019 a vampire virus has turned most of the world's population into vampires, with the reminding humans either harvested for blood or in hiding. The vampire society continues very much like human society was, government being very much the same, big business looking to make money and people enjoying peaks like coffee. But blood is running out, with riots plaguing most of the world and in America there is a subdweller problem, half-human, half-bat like creatures who have complete devolve socially. Ed Dalton (Ethan Hawke) is a haematologist who is looking to create a blood substitute for a multi-national company, but is failing to find it. He hates being a vampire and shows sympathy for humans. When he meets a group of humans he discovers they want to create a cure for vampires and that their leader Lionel "Elvis" Cormack (Willem Dafoe) was a vampire who turned back to being a human. Ed races to repeat the cure before the evil head of the company, Charles Bromley (Sam Neill) can capture them.Daybreakers certainly does have a very interesting idea behind it, what if vampires do take over the world and how would a vampire society function. I like how vampires would just keep society going as normal whilst the army hunts for the last reminding humans. I also liked how the international dimension was glimpse at and little details of the city and the society. It is interesting to see how this society starts to collapse as well, with people rioting and hungry for blood, unable to control their animalistic nature. Daybreakers can easily be seen as a metaphor about our society and the future problem of us running out of oil or food, unable to feed our needs, whilst showing how companies not doing well at looking for alternatives.The Spierig Brothers oblivious have some potential as writers and directors. They did write an interesting script filled with ideas and they do make first paced film. The action was well handled and it was deliberately gory, what you would want from a vampire film: but I think Daybreakers is more a sci-fi, action film rather then a horror film. Considering the budget the special effects were very well done, with pretty CGI and the subdwellers do look like a cross between the vampires in I Am Legend and a little bit of Gollum. There are some influences of other films, as mentioned I Am Legend was one of them, the little details of the world and the way society collapses is a bit like Children of Men and the techno part of the score was very similar to the Blade score. The film also has a chilling opening scene of a young vampire committing suicide because they can not grow up. But it did look a bit cheesy when you see characters with crossbows and bows and arrows.The acting in Daybreakers is not that good, but manageable. Hawke has never been a great actor so I did not expect much him. Dafoe can be a great actor, but he does overact and can give a really cheesy performance: with Daybreakers he did the latter. Neill was okay and I'm sure Isabel Lucas was cast because of her looks.Daybreakers is certainly a creative film with an original idea. Admittedly the original idea for Blade 3 was that vampires do take over the world but it was never made and I am sure would have been different to Daybreakers anyway. There are some decent action scenes and special effects and of clever ideas. It is worthy viewing and you will certainly not get bored watching it.
After the surprise hit that was Sherlock Holmes in 2009 Warner Brothers quickly commissioned a sequel. And like most sequels A Game of Shadows follows the rule of do everything the works in the first film and do it bigger. So has Warner Brothers got a new Batman or Harry Potter series or is it going to sink? In 1891 France and Germany have been suffering from a series of bombings and about to go war with each other because of it. Sherlock Holmes (Robert Downey Jr.) is investigating Professor James Moriarty (Jared Harris), a mathematics professor, a friend of the British Prime Minister and the centre of a international conspiracy which involves bombings, assassinations and business takeovers. Dr. John Watson (Jude Law) is about to marry his fiancé Mary (Kelly Reilly) but after Moriarty tries to kill him both Sherlock and Watson have to go to Europe to stop Moriarty and the continent going to war with the help of Gypsy psychic Sim (Noomi Rapace).Guy Ritchie can be a visually impressive director and seems to have joined Warner Brothers list of go to directors, along with Christopher Nolan and Zack Snyder. But Ritchie is a director who needs to be kept on a tight leash because he can over stylise and over complicate films. That's what happened with Revolver and even with Rocknrolla which a less is more approach was more appropriate. He has fallen into that trap again with his Sherlock Holmes sequel, the film that did save his career. The plot should have been simple, Moriarty is buying up a range of industries could he could profit from a world war. But Ritchie and his screenwriters seem to ignore this, only providing the audience necessary information until the very last minute and this was a film that needed to be more torter. Many elements could have been shaved and made the film trim action comedy in the 1 hour 45 minute to 1 hour 50 minute range. The action scenes are still impressive but it seems that Ritchie had to make everything bigger, such as the sequence in the forest where artillery is being fired at our heroes. A scene I personally really liked was the final fight. The whole plan itself is even bigger then Sherlock Holmes which was a mystery. This time Sherlock has to stop a war that could engulf the world.Downey and Law are still a strong double act and their banter is funny and natural. They continue as Downey being the ecstatic and Law the straight and it was believable that they worked together for years with their love hate relationship. I personally like how Watson is made even more confident and capable as both a fighter and investigator. He is almost like a protégé for Holmes. The homoerotism between the two not even hidden or subtle and they as well sleep together: its what they really want. But in the film Sherlock does get something wrong, and seeing that he is a man who never gets anything wrong that should have played on his conscience and cause self-doubt. But that's just me.Rapace is a very talented actress and it was a coup for the production to get someone like her, made famous from the Swedish Millennium Trilogy. But the picture the producer saying, 'we got that really talented Swedish actress to be in Sherlock Holmes 2' 'but what's she going to do?' 'ehh We'll think of something'. Despite a fun scene where she throws knives at an assassin she does not do much to help the blokes, she is just there to be a token female character. Her part could have been written out and it would not have made a different to the plot and despite Rapace's best efforts she was wasted.A number of big actors were linked to role of Moriarty, Daniel Day Lewis, Gary Oldman, Brad Pitt and Javier Bardam being some of them. It was a plum role for the relevantly unknown Harris to get and he does a good job throughout as the villain. His particular highlights was a dark scene when he tortures Sherlock and the final clash of minds between the two characters during a chess game. I wished the filmmakers played more of the idea that Moriarty is both Sherlock's intellectual equal and also an anti-Sherlock, someone willing to use his intelligence to commit crimes. He should have been a dark Sherlock, willing to kill and torture and do anything to achieve his goals.Overall Sherlock Holmes: A Game of Shadows is entertaining enough and a deeply faulted film. I wish it was a bit more of a mystery, a complex case Sherlock and Watson have to solve then an action adventure comedy.6.5 out of 10
Despite only making two films, Duncan Jones is seen as one of the great new directors around, for good reason. Having made the subtle, intelligence sci-fi film Moon that only had one actor throughout he has moved onto making a bigger budget, but still complex film.Captain Colter Stevens (Jake Gyllenhall), a army helicopter pilot awakes on a train and unaware about what is going on. A young woman, Christina (Michelle Monaghan) who speaks to him as her friend, Shaun. After the train explores Stevens discovers that the train was blown up by a bomb and the people who run the Source Code project, Captain Collen Goodwin (Vera Farmiga) and Dr. Rutledge (Jeffrey Wright), tell him he can go back to last eight minutes of a person's live and that he has to discover who bombed the train before a dirty bomb goes off in Chicago. But every time he goes back to the event Stevens becomes closer to Christina and Stevens goes on to his own personal mission to save her and discover what happened to him in Afghanistan.The big risk for Source Code was that it would end up being like Vantage Point, a film repeating the same event over and over again and becoming a very boring film. Luckily Jones did not fall into this trap and he made a film that is intense mystery, events that change and made sure that Source Code was filled with twists and turns. Many elements were similar to Moon in how the film unfounded and moral arguments it created. Whilst Moon avoided CGI as much as possible, Jones was more comfortable using special effects, whether for the explosion or Stevens entering the Source Code. When Stevens entered the Source Code it reminded me of the Assassin's Code with the white and blue imagines and it has a similar concept of going back in time using another person's body discovering something to change the present. The science behind Source Code, that everyone who dies lives an electric imprint of eight minutes so therefore a person's conscious can be put into it is ridiculous, but Jones made the film so well that you can easily ignore it.The acting is excellent in Source Code, Jones does have a eye for casting and he brought in a cast of indie darlings. Of course Gyllenhall is a great actor and had great chemistry with Monaghan; both were confidence in their roles. Monaghan is the innocent eyes on everything and despite having to play the same events over and over she is able make out she is confused by why her friend's behaviour has changed. I personally love Farmiga for her roles in The Departed and Up in the Air and again she is able to mix both a strong confidence and someone is more nicer and compassionate. Her character starts off as someone is cold and hard but slowly soften as her character develops. Wright is very much in an antagonist role and is very solid playing the director of the Source Code operation.Source Code is a film that has a lot of ideas behind it, particularly about fate and destiny and if someone change the future. Stevens knows the events that coming but has to take matters into his own hands. Stevens not just wants to stop the dirty bomb but he was to save the passengers on the train and particular Christina. Stevens wants his own free will and make his own choices. There is also the moral argument about whether should want to live on after death, whether it would have negative affects or whether death is better then just being a pawn. (SPOILER ALERT) Source Code also rises a time paradox when Stevens in his final journey into the Source Code he is able to stop the bombing and the dirty bomb and therefore never needed to back in time in the first part. There is also a moral problem that Stevens survives in Shaun's body and lives, but happened to Shaun's consciousness. It still debate to what happened to John Malkovich in Being John Malkovich. (SPOILER OVER).I do wish that Jones was a little harder when it came to violence and language and gone for the full R/15 rating, but that is mainly because I had to sit need a couple of annoying school kids. One of them said "I'm confused" and I thought to myself "because you are an idiot".Source Code is a more mainstream effort compared to Moon, but it is just as clever. Hopefully we will get to see even more from Jones.
I have not read the novel The Road by Cormac McCarthy yet, so I can only just this film on it's own merit. But to me it also already a leading candidate for Best Director and Best Actor at the Academy Awards this year.The Road is set in a post-apocalyptic near future of America. All plant life had died, so have most animals, and civilization has collapsed. There is no food being produced, the sun is blocked and the world is nothing but cold, grey and ash. Admit all this devastation is a man (Viggo Mortensen) and his son only call the Boy (Kodi Smit-McPhee). They are on a course to the East Coast and then aim southwards. On the way they have to avoid gangs of thefts and cannibals which is pretty obvious what they are doing. They too have to take food, but they only take it from abandoned homes. The man carries a gun with two bullets in it, and the pair are prepared to kill themselves if there is no chance of survival. The man wants to prepare his young son to survive for when he is not around anymore. He keeps remind the Boy that they are the good guys. As the two travel in this grim world the Man becomes very distrustful of other survivors. His character and body start to deteriorate.This a powerfully acted film, well directed film. Viggo Mortensen is a terrific actor and his recent films are impressive: The Lord of the Rings trilogy, A History of Violence and Eastern Promise. Mortensen must be a shoe in to get an Oscars nomination, but I doubt he will win because Morgan Freeman got to play Nelson Mandela. Kodi Smit-McPhee is also a very good young actor and has a good native quality to his character. He rejected a role in X-Men Origins: Wolverine which was properly a wise idea. This is a film about the worst thing that could happen, the end of live as well know it. This is not action film like some writers and storytellers would go. This is a character piece about a father and son fighting for survival and against the odds. This is a grim colourless world where there is no hope. John Hillcoat is a talented director, he brings out the grimness of this world, showing a lifeless void were most of the survive devolve as social being. Life is cheap in this world. Hillcoat shows a realistic way the world could die, and his cinematographer Javier Aguirresarobe does a very good job showing this colourless world. It is a sad and depressing film, but I like that sometimes in films. There are flashbacks that flesh things out a little bit, showing that the Man did love his wife (Charlize Theron), but she grew pessimistic about the event. Some clever things about the film is it never shows or expands what this event was, and not of the characters are given names, adding to the dehumanisation of what this event causes. As well as the main two character, there is also a good supporting cast, including Robert Duvall, Guy Pearce and the already mentioned Charlize Theron. They are all talented people and this is Theron best performance since Monster.If I had to nitpick there are a couple of issues with the film. First if all the plants in the world die, surely the world would run out of oxygen, and second, would infrastructure like water system stop working if there is no maintenance? But these are minor problems that should be overlooked because this is a beautiful, eerie film.A must see in an intimate environment.
Saving Private Ryan rekindled an interest in the media about the Second World War, with the TV Series Band of Brothers, films ranging from the Great Raid to Enemy at the Gate to Pearl Harbor and computer games like the Medal of Honour and Call of Duty series. Saving Private Ryan is also noted for its use of realistic of violence and war combat, which has continued into further films and television programmes.Set during the early days of the invasion of Europe by the Allied troops, a platoon of American soldiers led by Captain John Miller (Tom Hanks) is assigned to find Private James Francis Ryan (Matt Damon), an soldier who 3 brothers are killed in action. He has a ticket home. The mission sounds simple enough, but Ryan was in the 101th Airborne and dropped behind enemy lines before D-Day. Miller's Platoon has to go through enemy territory to find one man. The platoon who are assigned with Miller start to question the mission, especially when their men start dying.The war scene, especially the D-Day scene are some of the best committed to film. It shows that war was very brutal, very bloody, confusing and the need for good tactics and good men. The film makes an effort to show a mixed picture, that the Germans were a soldiers, not monsters or all Nazis, whilst some Americans can be arrogant and even committed war crimes, like killing surrendering soldiers. It is so much better compared to a one-dimensional film like Braveheart. Spielberg is a great director, and avoids shooting the film in a ordinary way. He uses a hand-held style, and his cinematographer Janusz Kamiński films in a washed out look, giving the film a documentary, gritty feel. He knows how to make a film visually wonderful. They is an excellent cast, Tom Hanks, Tom Sizemore, Matt Damon in leading roles, whilst even small roles were filled by established actors like Ted Danson and Paul Giamatti. Tom Hanks is the most well developed character, making you care about what happens to him and what drives him throughout the film. Many of the characters have backstorys like Private Ryan or character traits like the arrogant Jew or the sniper who was a committed Catholic.There are however problems with this film. The script and story are weak. They are character clichés like the wimp, the ultra good officer who is committed to the mission, the brave soldier, etc.... On the other side of the coin some characters simply disappeared off the screen because you couldn't care about them. The story is also ridiculous; could you really picture the American military risking a whole platoon to save one man, a private, a farm boy from Iowa? Especially with him being in the middle of enemy territory and not knowing where he was, not fighting on the frontline. It's hard to suspend your disbelief. The film is also a normal piece of American Patriotism, showing how great their were. I know it's an American story, but it ignores some of the darker elements which other writers and directors would have focused on, mainly non-American filmmakers. They was no mention of the British or Canadian forces fighting, and even Robert Rodat writes a line which pretty much an attack on Field Marshal Bernard Montgomery, a British war hero. Rodat must have some issues with the British because he also wrote the really awful The Patriot. Saving Private Ryan also has the same problem that Gladiator has, that it's opening is so good that nothing else in the film can compare to it.Saving Private Ryan is a example of a director improving on the script he is given. Worth watching, a good Oscar win for Spielberg, but The Thin Red Line should have won Best Picture in 1998, over Saving Private Ryan and Shakespeare in Love.
Bank robbery, gangsterism, corrupt coppers and establishment conspiracies, yes, that's 70s Britain for you. With the 70s backdrop the New Zealand director Roger Donaldson and veteran writers Dick Clement and Ian La Frenais take one of the biggest robberies in British history which was hardly reported. It has lead to accusations to a intelligence service conspiracy.Terry Leather (Jason Statham) is a ex-criminal who is in deep with two loan sharks. To get him out of his trouble his ex-girlfriend Martine Love (Saffron Burrows) tells him that the Lloyds' bank on Baker Street is having it's alarm system replaced and it's underground vault would be unprotected. And there is added bonus that the content of the safe-deposit boxes would be unreported. Terry and Martine form a team, Terry's petty crooks friends Kevin Swain (Stephen Campbell Moore), Dave Shilling (Daniel Burrows), a Cypriot mechanic (Alki David) and the conman, 'major', Guy Singer (James Faulkner). They plan to borrow from a rented shop to the bank. But what the crew don't know is that Martine was recruited by MI5 to retrieve embarrassing photos of a member of the Royal Family that civil rights activist and slum lord Michael X (Peter de Jersey) is holding to stop the CPS from prosecuting him. Brothel owner Sonia Bern (Sharon Maughan) uses the bank to keep embarrassing photos of public officials and gangster and porn king Lew Vogel (David Suchet) keeps a record of police officers he pays off. When the robbery is completed Terry and his gang ends up being chased by MI5, corrupt police officers and gangsters as they try and find a way out the country.Donaldson does have a mixed record as a director, but he had made good films in the past like The Recruit. He has a real eye for detail, capturing the spirit of the early 70s (which was influenced by the 60s) and allows The Bank Job to more along with a fast pace, from the preparations to the robbery to the chase. There is some action and has a fun feeling of a heist movie. He is made the film easy to follow despite the number of players in the film, adding a lot of intrigue. But Donaldson as a director is often more serious, with films like The Bounty and Thirteen Days, and the film was trying to be a little more light hearted. Donaldson did a good job, but I would have liked to have seen what Guy Ritchie or Matthew Vaughn would have done with the material.The acting throughout the film is decent, not was bad (except the children but their roles were small), but no one was exceptional either. Statham is a decent enough actor and The Bank Job is one of his best films outside the Guy Ritchie films. He is actually an actor in the film and not an action star, even though he does get to use his martial arts skills. Admittedly a few of the characters are a little clichéd, MI5 officers being very posh and want to keep the status quo going for themselves, crooked cops who want money and sex, salt of the earth, cheeky cockneys and clichés of posh people. It's not the actor's fault, but there could have been a little more effort to play against the clichés.The film if fun, but it is a fictional account of the robbery. The only thing we really know is that a robbery happened. The rest is based on urban legend and coincident. If there photos they properly would have been sold to a newspaper in Britain or abroad and that MI5 would have had a black ops team or use the SAS to get the safe deposit box. It felt little forced that film tried to link the events to Michael X and police corruption in the Met. Overall, 7.4 out of 10 would be a fair rating.
The Dark Knight Rises is the most anticipated film of 2012. When a film builds up this much hype there is always the risk that it would at best disappoint, a worst be a totally failure. But Christopher Nolan is a great director and has not let use yet. The Dark Knight Rises deliveries.It has been seven years since the events of The Dark Knight and Gotham has had a great period of peace thanks to the Harvey Dent Act. But Batman has not been seen since Harvey Dent/Two Face and Bruce Wayne has become an absentee lord of Wayne Enterprises with the company being a shadow of what it was. But a new threat has emerged, a powerful, strong mercenary Bane (Tom Hardy) who has been forming an army in the underground of Gotham and Bruce has to don the cape once more. Yet Bane is Batman's greatest challenge, both physically and intelligently and be he brings a new form of chaos to Gotham.The Dark Knight Rises is the most epic of all of Nolan's Batman films and was made on a grander scale. This is a film is played out like a war and is the most action packed of the series, with great sequences from the airplane attack to the final battle. They were incredibly well shot and edited and intent throughout. The action uses practical effects for the most part with CGI only used to add to the scene.But there is more to Nolan's Batman films then action. He is a great thematic director who continues the look of fear and chaos and how Bane uses an ideology of Anarchist-Marxism as a mask to goals. He is a man leading a revolution of working and underclass wanting to overthrow a distance, richer wealthy elite who are unaware of what is going on in their ivy towers. Bane is the man who success in turning Gotham into a anarchist state but is still really in control. He uses the ideas of hope as a way a method of control and breaking someone's spirit.The Joker was always going to be a hard act to follow but Bane is a compelling, interesting villain and his strength is that he is physically stronger then Batman and Tom Hardy was an excellent performer as the villain. He was not quite as good as Heath Ledger, but he was different, which was what was needed. People have complained about the voice but I understood what he was saying throughout the film and had very expressive eyes to display his emotions. Anne Hathaway too was an great addition to the series as Catwoman, a character who has her own motives and self-interests, a criminal and a expert fighter, but she too has a certain set of motives that makes her a more complex character. Bale plays a different Bruce Wayne, someone who is out of the game and not realising the challenge he is facing. The whole cast was strong, no matter how big or small their roles were.Knightfall was a one the big influences of this film, particularly Bane breaking Batman's back and freeing the criminals of Gotham for his army to take control of the city. Frank Miller's The Dark Knight Returns too is a clear influence, particular early on in the film where Bane is forming an army of youths, that Batman has been out of action for years and that youth of the city doubt he exists and at the end *SPOILERS* Batman forms his own army to take on Bane.The Dark Knight Rises is strong end to the series but overall it is a shame that the Nolanverse has to end at all and there is so much more I wanted to see done with the series. It is going to be tough for whoever has to reboot the definitive Batman series.
The Dreamers is a very strange film, looking at sexual and social relates and taboos, politics before and during the Paris Student Riots in 1968.The film focuses on Matthew (Michael Pitt), an American university student who was in Paris to study French. He has a love of film and it was a cinematheque linked to a museum. When the cinematheque was forced to close he befriends twins Isabelle and Theo (Eva Green and Louis Garrel). As the film goes on Matthew discovers that Isabelle and Theo's relationship is twisted and on the verge of being insectial. For example Isbelle and Theo share a bed together, and both play a game which the other has to guess a scene and if they can't they have do a forfeit. Matthew slowly falls in love with the twins, having a relationship with Isbelle, but also questions the twins relationship at times. He does also get involved in their activities, such as sharing a bath with the twins.Throughout the film it looks at sexual relations and politics. It also looks at a twisted relationship between the twins. However, because of the period the film is set in politics could not be avoided. Theo is a Maoist and during the film there is debates about revolution, warfare, pacifist, socialism, social issues and Vietnam. Matthew does argue with Theo over politics. There is also many cultural references throughout the film, there is debate on who's better, Jimi Hendrix or Eric Clapton (I personally favour Hendrix). There are also film references, such as the Freaks and Scarface (1932). A really good scene in the film is when the characters of the film try to copy a scene from Bande à part, where they race through the Louve. During that scene it cuts from the characters from the Dreamers and the scene from Bande à part.The film was well acted and does raise questions for the audience. The direction was decent and the script was okay.This film is very controversial and there are scene that will shock, even me who is use to and like some controversy. There is a lot of sex and nudity and could edge to close to porn. But this film is decent.
After the success of Back to the Future Universal Studios believed that they had the potential franchise on their hands. This despite Robert Zemeckis and Bob Gale thinking they finished the first film perfectly well. But despite this they continued with their baby and explained on the original idea.Back to the Future Part II begins with the last scenes of the first film, with Doc Brown (Christopher Lloyd) taking Marty (Michael J. Fox) and his girlfriend Jennifer (Elisabeth Shue) to 2015. Doc Brown wanted Marty to save his son and family from disaster. But whilst in the future, a 77-year-old Biff (Thomas F. Wilson) sees them and their time machines. Whilst on their mission he goes back to 1955 and his younger self a book of sports statistics. When 'Doc' and Marty return to 1985 they discover history has changed, with Biff becoming a multi-billionaire, controlling Hill Valley and married Marty's mum Lorraine (Lea Thompson). Marty and Doc have to return to 1955 and destroy the book and do it without interfering with Marty's first trip.They is no way Back to the Future Part II could ever match the first film with originality or wit, but it is still a fun little film. Robert Zemeckis shows his skills as a special effects director and for making fun family films with warmth and passion. He knows he has a tough job on his hands and just makes the film fun, mixing comedy and action with great effort. Zemeckis and Gale explain on ideas that the first film set up about time travel and parallel time lines which have continued into further films, TV series and cartoons. Zemeckis was also able to mix new scenes with scenes from the first film to great effort and has some of the best comedic moments in the film. I also enjoyed the scene between the two Docs. They is also a good joke about the Jaws Series. Zemeckis also copies what Steven Spielberg did with Indiana Jones, making the second film darker to the first. This doesn't work but I give the director points for trying. Fox, Lloyd and Wilson also enjoy the roles they are in, all are very good in the series. The Back to the Future series is possibly Fox's best work as an actor.A perfectly enjoyable film
This is my first Paul Thomas Anderson film that I have seen, but I am aware that he is a critically acclaimed director. After see There Will Be Blood I see why he is the darling of the Art-House scene.The film is loosely based on the Upton Sinclair novel Oil. The film focuses on Daniel Plainview (Daniel Day-Lewis). He is a silver miner in 1898 who finds land that has gold and silver. He buys the claims and discovers oil. He quickly moves into the oil drilling business and becomes successful, and goes around California buying oil claims. One day a worker dies and Daniel takes care of the child, raising him as his own. One day a young man Paul Sunday (Paul Dano) tells Daniel of a possible claim in a town called Little Boston. Little Boston is poor community in a dry landscape. Daniel buys the land for a cheap price, and a part of the deal is he gives $5,000 to Eli Sunday (Paul Dano, again) for his church. Daniel offers to invest in the community and build up the church, a school and farming. However, Daniel and Eli come into conflict. Eli offers to give the derrick a blessing. Daniel seems to agree, but snubs Eli in public, blessing the well himself. After that event one of Daniel workers die in an accident. Daniel goes to Eli's church for the funeral arrangements and discovers he is a faith healer. Eli blames Daniel for the accident because Eli didn't get to do the blessing. Another accident happens at the derrick and Daniel's son H.W. (Dillon Freasier) becomes deaf. Eli is unable to heal the child and he picks the worst time to ask for his money. Daniel struggles to deal with H.W.'s new disability. He ends up sending his son to San Francisco by himself. Daniel focuses all his efforts on his business, trying to make as much money as possible and signing a lucrative deal with Union Oil to make a pipeline to the ocean. As well both Daniel and Eli try to humiliate each other and brings the other one down.The main theme of the film is the corrupting effects, and Daniel looses all his sense of morality and would destroy anyone who gets in his way. Other elements of the story is the efforts of religion as a uniting force and the father/son relationship. There Will Be Blood also similar to a western, there American spirit to look for land and wealth, but takes it from an new angle. It could be possible also to think of the film as a criticism of the oil industry and American government, only showing interest in areas and communities if the offer something in return. They is also the willingness of businessmen to bride local communities to get their own way and make sure they give people the worst possible deal.They is a strong script. Paul Thomas Anderson is a skilled director, showing some look shots of the harsh area, but makes you feel a part of the action with little tricks like the splash of oil on the camera. He tackled the issues really well and you care for the character, especially unlikeable characters. PTA also gets the details of period just right. I will be looking out for more PTA films. The acting is excellent. Paul Dano was good as Eli who played him as a zeal but very weak character. Daniel Day Lewis deserved his Oscar and he played his role with real relish. You could actually be interested in him and what he does.There Will Be Blood reminded me of the HBO programme Deadwood, especially because Daniel Plainview seemed like Al Swearengen if Swearengen was a legitimate businessman. The other element being that both There Will Be Blood and Deadwood are historical drama and revisionist westerns. There Will Be Blood also reminded me of Citizen Kane because they look at a similar theme, the moral destruction of the character.There Will Be Blood is a fantastic film.
The Western Genre has been good to Clint Eastwood, making him a star. He has also been good back to that genre, making one of the greatest Westerns ever, Unforgiven. The Outlaw Josey Wales was also the Western that gave Clint Eastwood his big break as a director, showing what he is capable as a filmmaker.Josey Wales (Clint Eastwood) is a peaceful farmer who is ends up joining the Confederate guerrillas when his wife and son are murdered by a band of Union soldier known as the Redlegs. When the war is over, Josey refuses to surrender with the rest of his band to the Union who are betrayed by the Union commander, Terrill (Bill McKinney). Soon a price is put on Josey's head, with every bounty hunter, rebel, criminal and huntsman wanting him. But Josey meets allies on the way as he looks to settle for a peaceful life.1976 was a great year for film because of the releases of the likes of Taxi Driver, Rocky, Network and All the President's Men. The Outlaw Josey Wales can easily stand along side them. Eastwood directs at a brisk pace but still letting us into this tough world and get to know the characters as the embark on their odyssey. The landscapes are rough and tough, you would need to very resourceful to survive. The picture is complex because they are many different factors: there are rebels still fighting the Union, The Union is on the hunt for these people, there are ex-soldier who become bounty hunters because the war is over and different Native American tribes who have different allegiances. There are some clear influences from Sergio Leone, from the colour pallet, the way the action was shot and handled and the use of close up on the eyes. The final action scene reminded me of Zulu because of the shooting from the house, whether that is deliberate or by accident I do not know, but reference Zulu is of course always good. It is both an entertaining and thoughtful film.At the beginning Eastwood shows a vulnerable side in the beginning of the film which is rare and very well done before delivering a character that embodied his Man With No Name character, a tough rogue but despite his demons is a decent man. John Vernon plays an interesting character in the form of Fletcher because he is a reluctant villain, forced to work with the bad guys and knows it is either him or Josey. He was a more complex character and more sympathetic. The acting throughout is strong, there is complex characterisation and characters do actually change during the course of the film.The Outlaw Josey Wales is a great Western, able to match the likes of The Dollars Trilogy and Unforgiven. It was the start of what was going to be a great career as a director for Mr. Eastwood. The only thing left to say is that it has an 18 rating in the UK but now it would possibly get away with a 15 now.
Films are sometimes like buses, nothing comes along for ages and then we get two coming in at once. It was certainly the case in 2012 involving Snow White, starring with the light hearted comic version with Mirror Mirror and it ended up being followed by the action oriented version Snow White and the Huntsman.In a medieval kingdom King Magnus (Noah Huntley) and his Queen (Liberty Ross) have a beautiful daughter, Snow White (Raffey Cassidy) who is destined to rule the land. But after the queen dies Magus and his army frees a beautiful woman, Ravenna (Charlize Theron) from a dark, phantom army. The two marry and Ravenna becomes the new queen and after she commits regicide, she seizes control of the kingdom and holds Snow White prisoner. The adult Snow White (Kristen Stewart), escapes when Ravenna's magic mirror tells her Snow White will to her downfall but could also be the key to her gaining immortality. Ravenna hires a Huntsman (Chris Hemsworth) to hunt Snow White and bring her to the evil queen before she could unite the people against her.Snow White and the Huntsman is Rupert Sanders directional debut and there are strong aspects to his debut: he has a distinctive visual, the art direction and costumes are Oscar worthy and I like high medieval fantasy world that was created. Snow White and the Huntsman has been compared to Lord of the Rings, but it is set in a world similar to medieval England, having castles, armies in plate armour and having medieval style standards and there are priest/bishops dresses like the Bishop of Canterbury: but that raises a question, does Christianity exist in this world? It is added on when Snow White does a Christian pray to herself early on in the film. There are some good creature designs, particularly the tree like troll and the black glasses soldiers and the shapes their can form. There is one particularly wondering shot following a black glass creature as it kills a lot of soldiers.But it also clear that Sanders is still an inexperience director and that the film really does drag in the middle. He and his screenwriters seems to be padding out the film until the third act. It also felt like the screenwriters wrote a fantasy screenplay about a princess who tries to reclaim her throne and has magical powers to heal the world and needs to unite the people to overthrow a usurper, but the producers said that it needed more name recognition so made it a Snow White film. Many of the Snow White elements like the dwarfs (who do not show up until over an hour in the film) really felt out of place in a world filled with humans and they were pointless to the film. Sanders and writers even struggled to think of something for the dwarfs to do. Other elements like the poison apple felt like it was shoehorn into the film.The acting is fine throughout. It is easy to make fun of Stewart because of her role in the Twilight series but she actually gives a decent performance and her English accent is better then some efforts from American actors. At first it seems the filmmakers wanted to avoid letting her talk and the marketing campaign was avoiding mentioning she was in film, but she was fine and is not the weak link of the film. Hewsworth too was already thought throughout the film I was thinking what accent are you trying to do? He has the action chops, has some fun in the beginning as a drunkard and does bring out the tragedy in his character, even though it was written for an older actor (and that's why Viggo Mortonson and Hugh Jackman were offered the role). But Hewsworth's role as Thor is the best one for his career. It is Theron who has the most fun, chewing the scenery as she gets to act as evil as possible as she goes into full shouty mode. It must have been a fun role to play. Sam Claflin, most famous for making Orlando Bloom's character in the Pirates of the Caribbean seem compelling too was decent, being a little Legolas like because of his use of a bow and arrow. He actually felt like he did something contributed in Snow White then he did in the fourth Pirates film. It is the actors who play the dwarfs were wasted in pointless roles.There are some plot holes in the film, like the fact why the Queen did not kill Snow White as a child or at least said she kept Snow White alive to keep her claim to the throne and the Queen's brother (Sam Spruell) is one of the dumbest henchmen I have seen in a long time.There are entertaining action scenes and Sanders has potential to a strong director, but he needs to get a good editor and script editor to tighten up his films. And it is a film that is no worthy of a sequel that has been promised and Hemsworth should just stick to the Thor series.6.5/10
Spider-man, Marvel's most popular superhero was finally made into a film in the early part of the 2000s after years of development hell. Many people were attached to the project, from the great and good like James Cameron, David Fincher and Tim Burton, the average Chris Columbus, to down right awful Yoram Globus. It was horror expert and Spider-man fan Sam Raimi who got the go ahead for the Spider-man project.Spider-man tells the origins of our favourite web-slinger. Peter Parker (Tobey Maguire) is the high school geek who is bullied had has a unrequited love for Mary-Jane Watson (Kirsten Dunst). After a school trip to Columbia University our hero is bitten by a genetic modified spider and as a result he ends up with spider powers. He uses his these newly required powers to try and raise power for a car to impress Mary-Jane. He ends up fighting in a wrestling tournament where the promoter screws him over. As a result Peter's beloved Uncle Ben (Cliff Robertson) is killed. After that tragic event Peter pleads to fight crime as Spider-man. A new super-villain also comes to being, the Green Goblin. He is a major industrialist Norman Osborn (Willem Dafoe), the father of Peter's best friend Harry (James Franco). Norman struggles with the guilt of his evil deeds, but is a man who is facing the lost of his company. After Spider-man gets involved he develops a hatred for the super-hero.There are a lot of positives to this film. They is a decent storyline which is a much for any film. They is great action scene and Sam Raimi has a flair for the direction for this superhero film. But the winning feature is character development, from Peter's early reluctant and his longing for Mary-Jane, to Norman Osborn's guilt and duel personality. The supporting characters are also great, Mary-Jane, Harry, Uncle Ben, Aunt May and J. Jonah Jameson. The casting is fantansic. Raimi pick actors from indie backgrounds. Tobey Maguire is excellent as Peter, playing his geeky qualities and has a good dose of humour. He is an excellent actor. Willem Dafoe is also an excellent actor and makes a great villain playing the Green Goblin. Kristy Dunst and James Franco are good actors and grow into their roles in the later films. J.K. Simmons was perfect as J. Johan Jameson, adding humour to the film and Cliff Robinson and Rosemary Harris are great as Peter's aunt and uncle. David Koepp is a man who knows how to write blockbusters and excels himself here and Sam Raimi is a man who cares about the story and characters.Sadly some of the CGI is a little ropey, but Spider-man is a great start to the series and Spider-man 2 is even better.
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban is easily the best of the Harry Potter films, and there is one simple reason for that: Alfonso Cuarón! After two films done by the capable, but workmanlike Chris Columbus, Warner Brothers realised their needed a stronger storyteller for when the Harry Potter films started to turn darker, and an excellent Mexican director stepped into the frame.Set during Harry Potter's (Daniel Radcliffe) third year at Hogwarts a murdered named Sirius Black (Gary Oldman) escapes from Azkaban prison. Sirius was believed to be a follower of Lord Voldemort and its believed wants to kill Harry. The Minstry of Magic use a creature called Dementors to protect Hogwarts from Sirius. The Dementors can suck out happiness and the live out of people, which has a really powerful affect on Harry considering his past. Harry asks for help from the new Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher Remus Lupin (David Thewlis) to help him defend himself against the Dementors. Harry overhears that not only does Sirius want to kill him, but that he used to be a friend of his parents. Sirius betrayed them, telling Voldemort where they were hiding, and kills their other best friend Peter Pettigrew. Harry swears he will kill Sirius for what he did.Cuaron has such visual flair to directing which Columbus lacked. He knows action and where the camera should be based or follow, such as the fight scenes and the scene involving the Whomping Willow. He got the pacing right, making the film shorter then the previous two, and he focused on a characters and the story. He also offered some very stylist shots, worked well with the special effects (using both CGI and traditional techniques) and got the best out of his actors. He builds the relationships between the characters, especially Harry growing anger and need for a father figure. Cuaron also shows that he is much better at handling the darker elements of the story, whilst still having time for some physical humour. The main three actors, Radcliffe, Rupert Grint and Emma Watson all improve a lot from the first films. Radcliffe and Grint show that they have good potential in the acting world after the Harry Potter series, whilst this is Emma Watson's best performance in the film. Adding Gary Oldman into the cast is always a good way to improve film straight away, and David Thewlis is a fine addition to the film. Michael Gambon is a good replace for Richard Harris who sadly died in 2002 and Alan Rickman has a lot more to do in this film then in The Chamber of Secrets. In novel terms, Prisoner of Azkaban was when the Harry Potter started to improve and look at darker themes. It is also the only novel/film where Voldemort doesn't show up as the main protagonist in some form. J.K. Rowling, screenwriter Steve Kloves and Cuaron all hand the third act involving time travelling with real talent and tie-up all the sub-plot which was needed.Best of the Potter films.
Ever since the Lord of the Rings Trilogy Hollywood has been looking at epics to be release, especially looking towards fantasy novels. The Golden Compass was based on Northern Lights (which I thought was a better title), a part of the His Dark Materials Trilogy. The story itself is a fairly simple affair. Its starts with Lyra, the hero of the story, watching the attempted murder of her uncle. At the same time children across Britain getting kidnapped, including Lyra's best friend, Roger. This leads to Lyra's adventure up North and on the way she makes enemies in the name of Mrs. Coulter and the Gobbers, and friends with the Gyptain people and Iorek Byrnison, the exiled king of the Bears. The film changed too much from the book. The film doesn't start with the attempted murder of Lord Asreil. It misses out of a lot of key scenes and doesn't try to explain things to people who might not have read the books. Lyra meets Serafina Pekkala, the witch queen, too early in the film and you don't see her daemon at all. Finally it changes the order of events because in the book Lyra helps save the children from experiment at Bolvangar, before going to help Iorek Byrnison reclaim his throne. In the film it was the other way room and I think that is just criminal. The book was also more darker in tone to the film. In the book children do die and suffer, but this isn't shown in the film. I also pictured the world differently; I pictured Jordan College as a more darker, Gothic building, and the world the book was set in was a late Victorian/early Edwardian period, not the modern world in the film. I also thought Lee Scoresby should have been played by a younger actor, Sam Elliot is good, but it really should have been some their late 30s, early 40s. Lyra also should have had straight blonde, not curly brown hair. They are some good points. They is some good action, especially the fight between the bears. They is a good cast and was well acted. Unforuately this wasn't enough to save the film.
Kenneth Branagh and Laurence Olivier are two men that have often been compared to one another. Both are Shakespearian actors with a love for The Bard and both made their directional debut with an adaptation of Henry V.In 1413 Henry V (Branagh) has ascended to the English throne. Worried that the King may take property from the Church The Bishop of Ely (Alec McCowen) and The Archbishop of Canterbury (Charles Kay) convince Henry V to claim the throne of France and go to war with their rival. The English storm through France, but with disease, fatigue and horrible weather Henry attempts to bring the army back to England, leading to the Battle of Agincourt.Branagh's version of Henry V has often been compared to Olivier version, for good reason. Olivier takes a more stylised approach, his art direction was routed in Medieval Art and his film started as a play and slowly become more realistic. Branagh takes a more realistic approach, setting his film in castles, halls and muddy fields and he uses darker, more natural lighting as places are lit by candles. The 1944 film was made as to be a pro-war film to help morale the British public, whilst Branagh takes a much more anti-war view, showing the horrors and hardships of Medieval war.Branagh gave a terrific performance as Henry V, someone with intensity behind him and quiet determination whilst still being able to deliver a speech. There is pain and doubt on his face as he sees the war at first hand, the death and destruction and even doubts about his mission. This is particularly the case during his monologue of self-doubt. Branagh is surrounded by talented actors, all giving excellent performances; the most surprising being Brian Blessed who is much calmer to his usual larger-than-life persona.Branagh's direction has a Kubrickian edge to it, sharing camera angles and movements and a visual look, having similar lighting and sets. There are many moments where Branagh he allows a long take when more are debating or monologuing and zones in very slowly. There is a gorgeous four minute tracking shot showing the aftermath of the battle whilst a Latin song is playing in the background.It was clear that the production was limited on the scope of the numbers of people it could, shooting very closely to mask this. But an advantage was that it show that the Battle of Agincourt was a very close, tough battle it really was as it was fought on a muddy, wet, narrow field. The 1989 version got the tactics right but the costumes wrong and the 1944 got the costumes right but the battle wrong.The 1989 Henry V is a great adaptation of one of Shakespeare's most quotable plays. It is a great realisation of the play and one of Branagh's best films.
Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time is easily one of the best computer game adaptations made so far, but considering the competition that was not hard: Tomb Raider, Super Mario Brothers, Street Fighter, Mortal Kombat and the continuous works of Uwe Boll to name a few. Uber-producer Jerry Bruckheimer was able to turn a theme park ride into one of the most successful film series in recent years, so a computer should not be that hard.In the 9th Century, the Persian Empire is one of the mightiest superpowers, spanning from India to Turkey, Egypt and Sudan. Dastan (Jake Gyllenhall) was an orphan who was adopted by the king (Ronald Pickup) and raised as his son with his biological children Tus (Richard Coyle) and Garsiv (Toby Kebbell). Years later the Persian Empire invade the holy city Alamut after receiving intelligence that they were making weapons and selling the Persia's enemies. But after the city is conquered Dastan is framed for assassinating the king and Dastan has to go on the run with the city's ruler Princess Tamina (Gemma Arterton) who wants to kill him. Dastan discovers that the Princess has a knife that could reserve time by a minute and puts two to two together that the real target was the knife. Dastan sets to prove his innocents to the only man he can trust, his uncle Nizam (Ben Kingsley).I have not played the games the film is based on so I can only judge it as a film. It is clear that some elements were taken from the game, with Dastan running on walls and using wooden pillars pointing out the walls. But many computer game films fall because they are either not loyal enough to the games they are based or not having a strong story or even throwing too many elements of the game in the film (Street Fighter was criticised on all three fronts). At least Prince of Persia attempted to tell a story about a Prince proving his innocents and stopping people using a magical item (a simple story but at least it is trying to create a narrative).The style and tone of the film is very much like Pirates of the Caribbean, a light-hearted big-budget action film. The comedy through the main character is much like Jack Sparrow and it is basically a fast paced action film with many different factions and characters. The casting of Arterton reminded me of the casting of Keira Knightley, an up and coming British actress who is strong and feisty. The Alfred Molina character was there to add comic relief and there are many factors in this world. Some scenes reminded me of other films, like when the princes ask where Dastan is and he is fighting with his men, a little like in Troy where Achilles was sleeping with a woman instead of the battlefield. The battle scenes felt like the film was trying to be like Lord of the Rings and Troy and it was decent. But this is a film that is unlikely to match Lord of the Rings for great fantasy.The acting was find for the most part, Gyllenhall was able to provide a good English accent and shows he can be an action star. But for a film set in the Middle East Gyllenhall is remarkably pale, which is made even worst when at least the rest cast at least got a tan. But obviously Hollywood believes that people are not ready to have a Arab, Indian or Persian hero in a film and with the state of Islamophobia in the States at the moment it is unlikely to change. Also whilst Gyllenhall is good as a dramatic actor, he does not have the great comic ability Johnny Depp. But the comic material was not as pronounced as in Pirates. Arterton acting was very much like Knightley's in Pirates, posh, stiff and not very good. She has had good rolls but this is not her breakout role. Most of the comedy revolved around Gyllenhall and Arterton, as well as Molina. Kingsley was clearly the antagonist but in movie canon you should never trust a bold man with a beard and never trust a man who has eyeliner.Mike Newell direction was workmanlike, which does not have to a bad things sometimes. He had experience with fantasy filmmaking, directing Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire. Prince of Persia was certainly a fast paced film. The action scenes well handled, but a little too clear considering there were pitch battles in a city. There is a good scene involving a knife throwing fight. The CGI was also of a good level and the usual things like costumes and the scenery was well done. The Middle Eastern style score was also fitting for the film.Prince of Persia disappointed at the box-office and a big flop in 2010. There is not much likelihood of a sequel being made but the way the film ended meant that everything was rounded up. Overall it is a fun enough film and a 6.7/10 that Prince of Persia currently has is a fair score.
Shaun of the Dead is a excellent comedy film, showing that Simon Pegg and Edgar Wright are two of the best comedy talents to come out of Britain in recent years.Shaun of the Dead is a movie that works on a number of levels. It is a parody of the zombie films made by George A. Romero and unlike films like Epic Movie and Meet the Spartans, they do it out of a love of the films and don't throw in everything that was mildly popular at the time. Romero liked the film so much he even gave Pegg and Wright a cameo in Land of the Dead. Shaun of the Dead also works because it is well written, with get jokes and dialogue, and good acting from Pegg and Nick Frost. It has a fun plot and shows the problems of the Romero films, such as the zombie moving slowly and uses these problems. It has other jokes besides from making fun of the zombie and horror genre which helps the film a lot and has issues such as relationships between partners and friends.The story of the film was Shaun (Pegg), is man in his late twenties and has little to show for it. He works at an electronics store in North London, he lives in a house with his best friends from university and primacy school and both of them don't get along. Shaun was also struggling with his relationship with his girlfriend and had a strain relationship with his step-father (the brilliant Bill Nighy) and he spend most of his free time at the Winchester pub and playing Playstation games. To top things off the dead are raising from their graves and starting to roam London, but no-one seems to notice. Liz (Kate Ashfield) broke with Shaun near the beginning of the film and he tries to get up together with her. As the zombie start to become more numerous and danger more inevitable Shaun sees it as the perfect opportunity to get back in Liz's good books and planned to save her and his mum and go to the Winchester until the situation had blown over. However, he plan unravels as he tried to save them.The film is deliciously violence. Fans of modern British comedy such as Spaced and the Office will find a lot of to like about it. They are also good cameos from Coldplay and Trisha and on the DVD expands of these on the extras. Shaun of the Dead is worthy of multiple viewers and is a great film.
The Simpsons had been going downhill since the 9th Series, and the show lost a lot of credibility of making episodes like The Principal and the Pauper and All Singing, All Dancing, but generally still a good series. The new episodes are barely watchable now and to me the Simpsons is like an old sick pet, you would rather see it put to sleep then watch it suffer anymore pain. I did not have high hopes for the Simpsons Movies because of the decline of the show, and few of my friends did not recommend seeing it. I did not see it at the cinema and have recently seen it on Sky Movies.The plot of the film is that Springfield is on the edge of ecologically disaster and Lisa campaigns to protect Springfield River. At church Grampa Simpson has a vision and warns that Springfield is heading for danger. Mayor Quimby orders that the river needs to be cleaned up. At the same time Homer adopts a pet pig, Spiderpig/Harry Popper (you can guess what they were making fun of). Homer ends up filling a silo full of pig and his own waste. When taking the silo to be disposed of Lenny calls Homer to tell him that Lard-boy doughnuts were going out of business and giving after free doughnuts. Knowing the fellow that Homer is, he decides to take a short cut and dump the waste into river. Doing this makes Springfield the most polluted city in America and the evil head of the Eniviromental Protection Agency (E.P.A), uses President Schwarzenegger, to seal Springfield behind a giant dome. When the citizens of Springfield find out that Homer was the reason why Springfield became too polluted and Homer and family have to escape the town, before saving it. There are two subplots, first Bart became more hostile to Homer, and ends up befriending Flanders, wishing that he was his father. The second is Lisa ends up falling for an Irish boy, Colin, who shares a lot of interest with her, including music and their passion for the environment.There were jokes that were not very good and could easily be missed or ignored. But there were still so decent jokes, ranging from Maggie nearly fighting with Mr. Tweeny, to seeing Bart's penis (nothing like a minor bit of paedophilia (I am joking!)), to some of the verbal gags. But it still isn't great. One scene shows Homer pointing his middle fingers (flipping the bird as the Americans say), which I think never fits with the type of humour the Simpsons started out doing. The main problem with the film was that it tried to go for the widest possible audience, attempting to be too family friendly and trying to lure non-Simpsons fans, not being smart enough and relying on slapstick humour, i.e. Homer hurting himself. There was also be to much reliance on cameos, such as Green Day and Tom Hanks. However, the animation is very good, combining the traditional Simpsons style with a more cinematic style. I also like the politics satiring American politics, the media and the environment. It takes the mick out of America's attitude towards the environment, such as the negative reaction at the Green Day concert and $1000 being given to Aslakan people to destroy the natural beauty of the state (espeically where there is so little oil that it would cost more to drill out the oil then it would to make money out of it).Overall, not the best, but not the worst.
... there was a great show, created by a talented man called Matt Groening. The show became on of the biggest shows in the world, popular with old and young. But Matt Groening became corrupt by success, forcing his show to live a half-life and not die a natural, peaceful death.As you can tell, I have similar thoughts about The Simpsons, like most fans of my generation, growing up with the show in its peak in the 90s. The show was successful because it was very funny, combining cleaver humour from culture to politics, parody and satire, small site gags to good slapstick (nothing like Homer hurting himself).The premise of The Simpsons, is simple, it follows one family from a small American city (Springfield), as they struggle through life. All the main members have excellent episodes that allows them to shine. As the show grew with success more characters were created and they too got episodes, from Krusty the Crown, Ralph Wiggun, Sideshow Bob, Mr. Burns, Smithers, etc... The show also looked at themes from the media, childhood issues, health, American society, and so fore. Everyone has favourite characters in the show, my are Homer, Bart, Lisa, Maggie, Mr. Burns and Sideshow Bob.When the Simpsons was at it best it was one of my favourite shows and I watched it constantly. I still do watch, having a number of series on DVD, and watch the random selection on television. But by 1997/1998, the quality of the Simpsons started to decline, with the episode 'The Principal and the Pauper' being the Jumping of the Shark moment, and the ninth series being the last good series. There are good episodes after that series, but their come fewer and far between. There are good jokes, like how Homer would enter and leave the world in 'Half-Decent Proposal', but again become fewer.So why did the Simpsons decline? There are a number of reasons. Most of the good writers like David X. Cohen left the show or like John Swartzwelder who take a less active role. The writers are no where near their quality. The writers turn away from character driven episodes to more wacky adventure based ones which ruined the show, or the writers simply ran out of ideas, and did episodes based on famous stories like Hamlet, Lewis and Carl, Henry VIII, etc... Halloween episodes also had little to do with Halloween, being based on action films like Mr. and Mrs. Smith and Transformers rather then horror like The Shinning and the Twilight Zone. The Simpsons became more focused on the stars their could get to be guest voices for the show, instead of who would be good for the cast. Finally, they is the American system of programme making, which is if a show is popular keep running it until the rating go down. Compare to the British style which is let the show run for a few series, like Fawalty Towers and Blackadder and let it end when it good.When the Simpsons was at it best, i.e. the 90s period, it was one of the best shows ever made, and easily a 10/10. But slowly the show became weaker, but because I am a fair person I give a 8/10 because of the happy memories it gives me.
When I first heard that Joe Wright was going to make a film about a teenage girl who is raised by her father to be the ultimate assassin I thought two things, first that Mr. Wright was annoyed that he did not get the Bond gig and second this film sounded a lot like Hit-Girl from Kick-Ass and Alias. But then I started reading up about the projected and I got excited and Hanna is easily one of the best films of 2011 so far.Starting in the Artic Circle Hanna (Saiorse Ronan) is a teenage girl raised by her father to hunt, fight, shoot and kill and to be ruthless. Her father Erik Heller (Eric Bana) is an ex-CIA officer who teaches her to think on her feet, her cover story and reads her an encyclopedia so she could memorise facts, but not to think emotionally. Erik tells Hanna of her mission, to kill a senior CIA Marissa Wiegler (Cate Blanchett) and leave her rustic lifestyle. When Hanna thinks she kills Marissa she goes on the run, meeting a family in Morocco. Marissa at the same time hires an assassin Isaacs (Tom Hollander) and some Neo-Nazis to hunt Hanna whilst she tries to find Erik.Hanna has everything going for it, a strong script with a lot of ideas, Wright showing his abilities as an action director, a great cast and a pumping soundtrack by the Chemical Brothers. One of the big themes is the idea of nature vs. nurture and about a girl who has lived a sheltered existence forced to go into the big bad world. Hanna is a girl who is longing for more, to actually experience music and she is amazed by technology. It shows that it is one thing to learn facts in dept, it is another to actually see it for yourself. Hanna herself was a character who could think factually and had a great memory, but Erik raised her in how to deal with intelligence officers. Her social skills with people are terrible and she does not know how to deal with ordinary people. Ronan was really great in the film, being totally believable as a girl with killer instincts but having to go into a strange world and ends up exploring her humanity despite being taught to be ruthless. Ronan was convicting in the action department, killing Special Forces and showing material arts skills. Her acting ability is continuing to grow.The rest of the cast is really good, especially Bana and Blanchett as old foes. Blanchett is sinister as a officer clearing up the loose ends of her failed own dark op and using the CIA to do it. Other notable cast members Olivia Williams as a woman who thinks that it is great for Hanna at the age of 16 to travelling and hitchhiking alone whilst her husband Jason Flyming is the voice of reason and questions this situation. Jessica Barden is a lot better in Hanna then she was in Tamara Drewe as an annoying teenager, who uses Hanna. Weirdly Barden looks younger then Ronan but is in fact older in real life.Wright shows real ability as an action director and I personally think its his best film to date. The action scenes were really well done and shows you do not need CGI or fancy editing. There are some stylist camera tricks, but one of the best moments was a continuous shoot following Erik from a Bus terminal to an underground station, being followed by CIA agents. The actually fight is quick, but there were no cuts and the build up was really key. Other major scenes are the escape from the CIA base with Hanna and the fight with the Neo-Nazis in the shipping yard. A little note for Paul Greengrass: an action scene is better when you can actually see what's happening! Because of the lack of CGI and overediting the film had a proper grittier edge. As well as the action Wright made sure there was a sure there was a heart and emotional core the film with Hanna having to discover the world and befriending a strange, but loving family.Some critics and commentators have mentioned that there is a fairy tale link to the film and there are some obvious references. The first is that Hanna has a copy of the Brothers Grimm's fairy tales and that one of the meeting points was at a Brothers Grimm's theme park, leading to one of the most surreal scene in a film for a long time. There are little hints like the wooden cabin having a fairy tale look, but I personally think of Hanna as a action spy thriller with a mystery edge.There are a few problems to the film, like wouldn't Erik see that one day that Hanna will need to take on Marissa and therefore he would need to ingrate his daughter into society, get her use to technology she would not be overawed and teach her thinks like CCTV, passports and money so she could avoid it or know how to use it. There is a small issue involving Marissa whom logic is to get people to find Hanna is some Neo-Nazi when she could take on a base of Special Forces troops. And there some unresolved issues and here are some SPOILERS: first what happened to the family, did Marissa kill them or let them go? Hanna never got to know much about her past like who is her real dad or find anything about her mother. The film does have a bit of an abrupt end, with Hanna simply killing Marissa, what is she going to do next? I think if there is going to be a sequel it will take a hell of a script to bring Wright and Ronan back.Overall Hanna is great fun film with a lot of substance.
Robocop 3 is hardly disregarded film and for good reason as it a very poor sequel and conclusion to the Robocop series, becoming a pale intimation of itself. Robocop 3 follows on from Robocop 2 left off, with OCP being brought out by a Japanese company and must start construction of Delta City or else go bankrupt. They need to force the eviction of a poor district and OCP are met with armed resistance and when Robocop's (Robert John Burke) partner, Anne Lewis (Nancy Allen) is killed by OCP's lead thug he ends up joining rebels.Robocop 3 is a very poor film, suffering from a number of problems. There were major casting changes and whilst Burke does a decent job replacing Paul Weller, but he is surrounded by an atrocious acting, such as Remy Ryan as a genius child hacker. The action was very weak, especially compared to the first two, the violence was toned down and had horrible special effects when the first two have very strong effects for their time. It looked cheap: in the first film Robocop had ED-209 as a threat, Robocop 2 had RoboCain, Robocop 3's big threat was a robot ninja and only played by a regular man.Lewis was killed off in this film, a major character in the series and she wasn't even given a proper send off, just killed so the film could showcase their bland British badguy is evil, enjoying pain, suffering and power.Robocop 2 was a film with major problems, but at least director Irvin Kershner and his writers were trying to honour and recreate Paul Verhoeven's look and style and try and keep the satirical elements of the first film. Robocop 3's director Fred Dekker disregarded the legacy, making a less serious yet less funny film. It took 20 minutes before we got to see Robocop (I think by the third film people don't need to wait to see him). They was no effort on the satirical edge or being interesting.Bradley Whitford from The West Wing was a refreshing presence in the film, being a bright spot as the Jackass extraordinaire and Julie Hennessy as Dr. Lazarus was one of the better performers.As a finale to the Robocop trilogy Robocop is a wasted opportunity, dumbing down and toning a very adult series and serves as the Batman and Robin of the Robocop series.
One of the big debates for any political candidates is do you stick to your principles no matter what or do you compromise to ensure you can get yourself elected. This is one of many themes The Ides of March examines in this look of human character.In the Ohio Democrat Presidential Primary there are only two men left in the race, Mike Morris (George Clooney), the Governor of Pennsylvania and Senator Pullman (Michael Mantell), a senator from Arkansas. Stephen Meyers (Ryan Gosling) is Morris' deputy Campaign Manager, a 30-year-old man with a sharp political mind and really believes in Morris as a candidate. But Stephen makes a fatal mistake, he meets the rival candidate manager, Tom Duffy (Paul Giamatti) and slowly Morris turns from the front runner to facing a tough neck-and-neck race. But Stephen not just suffers a political crisis but also an personal and career one as well.The strongest aspect of The Ides of March is acting from the whole cast. Clooney assembles a great cast, Gosling, Giamatti, Philip Seymour Hoffman, Jeffrey Wright, Evan Rachel Wood and Marisa Tomei. These were all well developed, interesting real characters as we see Stephen gets corrupted by the political process. Gosling starts as a wide eyed decent bloke who becomes a morally despicable, first out of loyalty and a determination to win to his ambition for revenge. Most of the characters are bad or flawed and Philip Seymour Hoffman was possibly the most sympathetic because despite his brass exterior he makes a verdure of loyalty and committed to the cause whilst Wood is simply a young woman who goes in over her head. Whilst Clooney seems like a decent politician, a man who wants to stay committed to his principles but in the end but no different to any other politician. Plus Clooney actually did not have much screen time, this was a film focusing on the campaign staff.As well as being about politics and the political process, this is a character study on the affects of power and ambition someone.Clooney's direction was pretty standard but I put it down to the fact the film is based on a play. A lot of the film is people speaking rooms as plot in various ways. It was almost like an edgy version of the West Wing but have different viewpoints on politics: The West Wing's view is that politicians are people who believe in their ideology because they genuinely believe it is best for the country and the system of compromise acts a check, whilst in The Ides of March the system of compromise is a way to weaken ideals and shows that some people are willing to do anything for power.The original played avoided mentioning which political party it focused on. Clooney turned The Ides of March into focusing on the Democratic Primary but there are some hints of play's political counter-balance by making out Senator Thompson (Wright) to be a bit like John Bolton (a right wing nut), claiming the top ten floors of the UN could removed.It is also an examination of how in politics that even people within the same side, the same campaign backbite each other let alone their oppoents: these are people who are meant to have similar ideology (and before someone gets clever I know American politics is a lot more complex). But this continues the theme of power corrupting people, people within any organisation are vying for top dog.One problem I have with many political films is it boils down to a sex scandal. I accept that a sex scandal would have massive affect on a campaign, but there are other things that could derail a campaign. But it is still a better executed film compared to Primary Colors and Wag the Dog.
Violence, Sex, Swearing, the three words to describe Rome; but hell, it's good. This HBO/BBC/RAI TV Series shows the political events and turmoil of the rise of Julius Caeser and Gaius Octavian (Emperor Augustus). It looks at the civil war of Rome, rivalries between Caeser and leading figures like Pompey and Brutus and then between Octavian and Marc Anthony. It is a very interesting look at the historical events and politics of Rome. One think I really like is the discussions of politics, showing think might not have change that much (in more ways then one). In the middle of these events are two Roman soldiers, Lucius Vorenus (Kevin McKidd) and Titus Pullo (Ray Stevenson). They are soldiers in Caeser's army and become involved in the political situation, loyal to Caeser, Anthony and Octavian. It also gives the audience a good look at what Rome would have been like during the Roman period.This programme is basically historical fiction, but unless the God-awful Braveheart, gets most of the basic facts right. The show takes a lot of artistic license about the events and the characters involved, such as Octavian and Marc Anthony's rivalry starting because of Marc Anthony's relationship with Octavian's mother, the spark of the civil was because a local criminal tried to attack Pullo and Pullo fathering a child with Cleopatra.The programmes shows that the upper classes had completely different values to the lower classes, and its just down to wealth. It also shows that Roman politics was very complex. They is good acting between McKidd and Stevenson and you do believe in there friendship during the show. Rome also has excellent production values that could easily match Hollywood films.The Tutors try to copy the success of Rome, but that programme fails badly. They is a health warning because this programme is aimed for adults and not for some of a nervous disposition. At some points it is pretty much porn, but it see works. The same goes for the violence.One disappointment is the lack of battle scenes but the programme is not really about that and do except a TV verison of Gladiator. But this programme is still worth watching.
The Rock is a perfect example of a Jerry Bruckheimer and Michael Bay film, simple popcorn action. A lot of people including myself have been critical of some of the films they have made and been criticised for dumbing down plots for simple profit.Brigadier General Francis Hummel (Ed Harris) is a highly respected special forces general, who ends up being disillusioned with the American Government, when they dismiss the deaths of special forces soldiers, and not give families the money or the respect they deserve. He takes up extreme action to achieve his goal: with a special force team he steals a stockpile of VX from the US military and then takes hostiles on Alcatraz. Hummel threatens to fire the VX over San Francisco if his demands are not meant and the American government has limited options. The American government only option is to try and send in a special forces team, with a chemical weapons expert Stanley Goodspeed (Nicholas Cage) to disarm the weapons. The problem is that there is only one man who knows how to get into Alcatraz, John Mason (Sean Connery). The thing is, Mason was a former MI6 and SAS soldier, who was arrested by the American, and well unhappy of his arrest, and a now a man in his 60s.Some critics and film fans believe that The Rock is Michael Bay's best film, seeing it as simple summer entertain that is not being pretentious. I disagree, I believe that The Island and Transformers are better films. However the Rock is Michael Bay at his best and worst. There are very good action sequences, especially the military based action. He is not reliant on massive CGI sequence like he is in his later films. Bay could make a good film about special forces. Bay also shoots the film with the aim of an R-rating, and not playing it safe like he has done. Bay also ensembles a good cast, this was when Nicholas Cage was at the height of his career. Sean Connery is in one of his better roles outside Bond, though his part has to be Scottish because he can't do any other accent: if his character was Russian it would have been a bit more believable. Ed Harris was the strongest performer in the film as a the villain, who was made to be a complex character who had a noble cause unlike some villains in summer blockbusters. Bay was also able to fill smaller roles with talented actors, like John Spencer, John C. McGinley and Michael Biehn. But there are a lot of problems that are common with Michael Bay films. Bay has no clue how to reign in his films and like Transformers, Armageddon, etc... The Rock is too long. Bay needs a good editor who can make his films more tort and well more watchable. With this sort of film where the plot is very simple then making it long really affects the film. Things could be have easily been cut, like the car chase in San Francisco. A problem with the film is tone. When the script is written it aimed to be very serious, whilst the re-writes and the direction by Bay wanted to make it more light hearted and comedic. This shows with the different performances, with Sean Connery and Nicholas Cage almost being like a buddy pair, whilst actors like Ed Harris and John Spencer were more serious in their roles. As well there are some script problems, where the film explains too much details to the audience, and not respecting their intelligence. The script also has plot holes, like wouldn't the media question why people were missing or couldn't get to Alcatraz.In a film like this I describe Michael Bay as Oliver Stone with more explosions. This is a film that references at some conspiracy theories and American secret actions, like the locking up of Mason. A more political director would have flagged this issues up more, but a more political director possibility wouldn't have done this film. The theories involving Hoover and the microfilm wasn't needed at all.There are enjoyable action scenes, but there are problems with this film.
Red Dawn to many has become a cult classic, being reference in popular culture like Scrubs and South Park. It was a film made at the high of Ronald Regan's powers, where the Soviet Union was seen as pure evil and very right wing films were being made, such as Uncommon Valour, the Rambo sequels and Commando. It is a product of it's time, over the action, cheesy action.Red Dawn takes place in world where NATO has collapsed and Communism has spread in Latin America, including Mexico. The Soviets and Cubans launch a surprise invasion of the United States, with a impressive scene involving paratroopers. In one town in Colorado a group of teenagers run away to the forest. Two brothers Jed (Patrick Swayze) and Matt (Charlie Sheen) lead the group and uses survival skills to live and avoid the fighting. When their return to the town they find out that the Soviets are after them and their parents have been sent to re-education camps. The teens decide to fight back. They capture Soviet weapons and start a guerrilla campaign of raids and bombings. This makes the Communist forces very nervous and end up taking reprisals out on civilians. But the teens, known as the Wolverines, offer hope for American resistance.The action is fun and OTT. This is not a gritty war film. It is about how many commies can be killed. If you want to enjoy this film you have to put the right wing ideology aside. This is a film that is pro-gun rights/private gun ownership, and that anyone communism is evil. A good example of this is the Communism troops shoot teachers and students at a school, and that Soviet troops try to rape teenage girls. It also has a questionable morality about the willingness of people to turn not only into resistance fighters, but also cold-blooded killers.They are problems with the films. As mentions there is it's political ideology, but the main problem is the actor. Most of it is weak, which is a same because Patrick Swayze and Charlie Sheen did end up doing better films. There is also little character development and one-dimensional characterisation: Americans good, Soviets evil. The most interesting character in the film was Colonel Bella (Ron O'Neal), a Cuban officer and former resistances fighter who does not like the extreme Soviet tactics and wants to take a more conservative approach. The film does try to touch issues of war morality, but not very hard.The film takes itself too seriously. It could have been more tongue-in-cheek in nature, or if it really wanted to make a serious film, the make up of the Wolverines should have been more balanced, not just teenagers. There are also some logical issues, like where didn't more people get recruited into the Wolverines, or why wasn't the Re-Education camp more well guarded when the teens go to see their day.Overall, an okay film, which you only need to see once.
Martin Scorsese and Leonardo DiCaprio reteam once again for the highly controversial three hour long black comedy looking at the excesses of the world of stock brokers.The Wolf of Wall Street is a bio-pic about Jordan Balfort (DiCaprio), following him as he starts out a young stockbroker who under the mentorship of Mark Hanna (Matthew McConaughey) falls into a world of drug taking and hard living. When he loses his job after Black Friday, the biggest stock market crash since 1929, Jordan loses his job and he ends up on a course of the get rich quick schemes, over selling penny stocks to poor people and then rich people and as his firm becomes more successful enters insider trading and any other financial crime you can think of. As he and his cohorts become richer they fall deeper into a world of excess and debortuary and one FBI agent, Patrick Denham (Kyle Chandler) is determined to bring Balfort and his company down.The Wolf of Wall Street is very similar to other Scorsese films like Goodfellas, Casino and Raging Bull, following the rise and fall of a someone and their moral decay. The Wolf of Wall Street follows that formula, replacing the violence with sex and drug taking. Scorsese does use similar techniques to what he has used in his previous films, such the multiple voiceovers and a wedding scene and the story share the similarities to the three previous films. At times The Wolf of Wall Street does come off as a Martin Scorsese's greatest hit. But even Scorsese doing a greatest hit still provides us with an excellent film.Scorsese still brought plenty of flourish to the proceedings, using many visual tricks from the way the cameras and hover, mixing with Balfort's narration, such as his car changing colour and the use of slo-mo. Balfort narrates to the camera similar to how Michael Caine did in Alfie, describing events and allows audience member who do not have much knowledge about the stock market to follow the film. There is also visual metaphor such as when Balfort's yacht sinks as he world starts to fall apart.Some people have criticised The Wolf of Wall Street for being an endorsement of Balfort and the world he lived in. They must have seen a different film to me because to me the film I saw was a indictment of the culture of the banking sector, a culture of excess, bullying and people who were looking for a fast buck, not caring about how they get it. These people were fraudsters who looking for various forms of highs and these were people controlling the economy. Scorsese and screenwriter Terence Winter were brilliant at showing this nasty, aggressive world whilst still allowing us to see well written characters and their friendship and loyalty to each other, similar to a gangster film.The Wolf of Wall Street is a darkly funny throughout, blessed with a script with witty lines, top comic performances and set-pieces and Scorsese's direction. It is very funny using many different types of humour, both as a straight comedy and a dark comedy.There is a great cast, Di Caprio leading the front and he is supported excellent actors. Jonah Hill's stock continues to grow, giving a great performance as Balfort's right-hand man and he was able to blend the comic and serious aspects of his character. Margot Robbie too was fantastic, giving a great Brooklyn accent and she has come a long way, from the Australian soap Neighbours to Scorsese. There are plenty of excellent actors in smaller roles, from McConaughey, to Super 8's Chandler and Jean Durjardin. They are even top actors in small roles like Joanna Lumley and Jon Favreau.The Wolf of Wall Street is a ballsy film that is a little on the long side. Scorsese was able to make a gangster film about white-collar crime, replacing violence with sex and drugs. This is a return of the Scorsese of the 90s.
The Tree of Life is a great example to me that a film could brilliant cinematography, visuals, music and acting and could still be a poor film. Terrence Malick is a great director but I feel if The Tree of Life was directed by an unknown director and featured an unknown cast then this film would have been seen for what it really is, pretentious twaddle.Starting in the 1950s, a couple (Brad Pitt and Jessica Chastain) receive news that their 19-year-old died and their adult son, Jack in the modern world (Sean Penn) looks back on his life. The Tree of Life examples the Big Bang and the age of the dinosaurs to the 50s when the dad takes his frustrations out of his sons (Hunter McCracken, Laramie Eppler and Tye Sheridan) as their father makes them do jobs and is tough on them. He forces his way of life on them and wants them to love them. The boys' mother is more loving, offering them unconditional love. Soon Jack becomes resentful against his father.I will praise Emmauel Lubezki and the special effects team for at least trying to make Tree of Life a visual treat and Pitt , Chastain and McCracken did offer great performances. But what else is there? Of course there are themes as expected from an Art-House film like this, the mains being that in the grand scheme of the universe humanity and all personal issues are minor and that in religion that good people suffer and need to go through trials. The other major theme is two different types of parenting and the idea of two courses of life, nature and grace. But I believe Tree of Life did this poorly and I think there was a more interesting film within Tree of Life about the dysfunctional relationship between a father and son, a son becoming bitter against father and becoming a juvenile delinquent. There are bits of the film which lead nowhere, for example looking at a young girl, hinting one of the boys fancy her and she not even in the film after that. The film lacks dialogue, lacks character inactions or even a coherent plot. Events just fly by and the film is quickly edited. Dialogue and conversations are useful.The film reminded me of 2001: A Space Odyssey, mainly because of the scenes of the birth of the universe and life and the surreal ending. But birth of mankind and its progression, urging for knowledge and evolution played a key part of the plot. Whilst the scenes with dinosaurs are very interesting, it had nothing to do with the rest of the film. But it would have been a lot more fun if it had more dinosaurs. I could also compare The Tree of Life to The Lovely Bones because of the narration and its look of the afterlife. That film was heavily criticised but I feel that The Lovely Bones' version of heaven is better then Tree of Life. Also Penn's role is pointless to the film.Overall I believe is pretentious and only praised by critics and won the Palme D'Or because of the reputation of its director. I was in a cinema known for showing art-house films and popular with cinephiles and I think most of them were board with it.
After the success of Saving Private Ryan and Band of Brothers, Steven Spielberg and Tom Hanks have decided to return to the Second World War with their second television show together. But this time the two have designed to focus on the brave efforts of the American Marines fighting the Island Hopping campaign in the Pacific.In this 10-part miniseries the programme makers focus on three main characters, John Basilone (Jon Seda), Eugene "Sledgehammer" Sledge (Joseph Mazzello) and Robert Leckie (James Badge Dale) from America's entry into the war to the immediate aftermath after VJ day. They were three very different men, Basilone coming from an Italian American background, Sledge being from Mobile, Alabama and Leckie a writer from Philadelphia. The Marines had to fight in some of the toughest battles throughout the war; Battle of Guadalcanal, Battle of Cape Gloucester and the Battle of Okinawa. They were often the fighting hostile jungles and weather conditions, against an enemy who did not know the meaning of the word surrender and were often the first wave into battle or first line of defence.The series sets out to tell mostly how the war was fought and focus on the man in the Marine. They were all three dimensional characters with their own views and goals and obvious in Hell. The action is realistic and well handled by the directors, done very much in the style of Saving Private Ryan and Saving Private Ryan. But the series is more then just wall-to-wall action: it was a lot more then that. There were episodes where they was no battles at all, such as the one in Australia where we get to know the characters more and have a look of the war on civilian live.The Pacific is a character drama and it was brilliantly acted by the cast. The smartest move was just focusing on 3 characters, other mini-series focus on too many characters and you end up getting to know them really well. With series like Band of Brothers and Generation Kill there were so many characters that it was sometimes hard to know who everyone was. The programme makers use them to show a complex background with all the characters and different sides of the war: the frontline, boot camp, medical facilities and the home front, and how that influenced American war time culture and propaganda. It showed that despite the characters going through the toughest warfare they still wanted to fight and fulfil their duty.The show was brilliantly written, exploring all it themes with great care. It was a very historical actuate about how the war was fought, American different view points on the Japanese and generally what 1940s America was like. The show is informative as well as entertaining.The Pacific is American Television at its finest is a better then most war films. HBO offers some of the best programming in the world.
The Coen Brothers have made many great films and worked in many different genres. One of their most famous comedies is Raising Arizona, a fast paced, zany comedy that can only come from the minds of the Coens.H.I. "Hi" McDunnough (Nicolas Cage) is a career criminal who falls for policewoman Edwina "Ed" (Holly Hunter) and goes straight for her. After they get married they attempt to have a child, but when Ed finds out she is infertile and the pair unable to adopt the couple take the logically route of kidnapping a baby from a wealthy couple who have just had quintuplets. But their actions get complicated by two escaped convicted, a police investigation and a ruthless bounty hunter.Raising Arizona is a very funny comedy that zips along at a great pace. The Coens' fingerprints are all over this film, having a sharply written script and excellent direction throughout. The jokes are constant throughout the film, giving us a variety of style of humour, from great one-liners, character interactions and pure physical comedy. The Coens bring a lot of energy to the film as we get over the top set pieces like the robbery where Ed abandons Hi and the Coens being a brings a kinetic style with their camera movements and editing of set pieces. We get a great prologue at the beginning of the film as we find out about Hi and Ed's past and how they came to their solution with funny jokes on the way.As well as the direction, Raising Arizona is blessed with a top cast who give both comic and sincere performances. Cage and Hunter had great chemistry together, having excellent comic time and were committed to their roles. Cage worked well with his supporting cast as they assemble a top cast: John Goodman being a particular highlight as one of the escaped prisoners.The Coens Brothers' direction is frantic through the film, using fast paced editing, hand-held cameras and tracking shots, amplifying the comedy, showing this maniac universe and gives Raising Arizona a distinctive visual style. The Coen's regular composer Carter Burwell also supplies a great score for the film, particular the use of a country/folk like guitar score which was a perfect fit for the film.Raising Arizona is a very entertaining, funny and heartfelt comedy that can stand along some of the best works the Coen Brothers have had to offer. It is a screwball comedy that can cater to many tests from intelligent jokes, observations and character interactions, to more over the top physical and visual comedy.
Back in 2007 300 was a surprise hit, striking a cord with young men the world over, being known for one-liners, action and violence and help many of the people involved had a career boost, including director Zack Snyder. Now after seven years and the release date being postponed by seven months the sequel/prequel/side-story focusing on the Battle of Salamis.During the events of the original film and the Battle of Thermopylae, the Athenians, lead by Themistocles (Sullivan Stapleton) also plans to prepare for war, tackling the Persian navy south. Themistocles is a believer of Democracy and a united Greece and showed himself to be a tactical genius, killing King Darius during the Battle of Marathon.In Persia, Darius' naval commander Artemisia (Eva Green) manipulates his son and heir, Xerxes (Rodrigo Santoro) into becoming a God King and when he was away purged the palace of all his advisers and gets him to invade Greece. Artemisia is a ruthless, sadistic woman who wants revenge against the Greeks for killing her family and leaving her for dead. On the high seas both Themistocles and Artemisia equally match each other as Themistocles and Leonidas hold the line so Greece can unite.Commercial director Noam Murro took over the directing duties since Snyder has moved on to the DC Cinematic Universe. Murro does a solid job trying to replicate Snyder's style and visual approach, whilst shooting on a more darker colour pallet. The action was fluid for the most part and 300: Rise of an Empire will satisfy a blood lust as plenty of CGI blood spatters on the screen. This film is extremely gory, maybe a little too gory: yet the action is still enjoyable. Murro tries to copy Snyder's use of slow-motion, but he uses it so much that even Snyder would have been embarrassed.Eva Green was truly the highlight of the cast as she oozed charisma and sex appeal. She made a great female villain, being sexy and psychotic in equal measure as she acts out her revenge and showed she was perfectly capable at using a sword. Green was not only able to commanded a navy but also had a commanding presence on the screen. She would be perfect to play Boudica if Hollywood ever make a film about her.Stapleton was solid enough in the lead role, but he did not have the gusto that Gerald Butler brought to the Leonidas role and he did not have as good of speeches to work with. The supporting cast was not as memorial as the first film and the general sub-plots were heavily reliant on the story of the first film.One of the strongest aspects of 300: Rise of an Empire is the battle of wits between Themistocles and Artemisia: both are tactically astute and technically the Persian are much more of a threat and not just in physical number but also technical prowess. This was more than the battle of brute force that the Battle of Thermopylae was in the first film. 300: Rise of an Empire also expands the universe of 300, seeing more Greek states and showing some of Persia, giving the universe a bigger scope. Plus the music score was perfectly bombastic and entertaining.300: RIse of an Empire is a entertaining and fast paced continuation of the 300 series. It's not as fresh as the original film but serves as an expansion of the series and a more interesting approach at a sequel because it is a side-story. It is a fun violent romp.
Back to the Future Parts II and III were shot back-to-back, and the second film ended with a cliff-hanger. Part III starts with how Part II ended.After Doctor 'Doc' Emmett Brown (Christopher Lloyd) is trapped in 1885, and Marty (Michael J. Fox) seems trapped in 1955. He goes to the younger version of Doc to help him and discover that the time machine was hidden in an old mine. But whilst in a graveyard, Marty finds Doc's tombstone and that he is about to be murdered in a week in his timeline, and he decides to go back and save him. But in 1885 the time machine loses fuel and both have to find a way at getting back to the future via another method. They have to do this in a few days before Buford "Mad Dog" Tannen (Thomas F. Wilson) murders the Doc. As well as finding a way back to 1985, the Doc also finally finds love in the shape of school-teacher Carla Clayton (Mary Steenburgen) and the man is thorn between going back home or staying with his new love.The Old West world set in Back to the Future Part III is a fantasy version, not a gritty view, despite reference to Clint Eastwood westerns (which is also a good thing when done right). But this is a family film so what do you exact. The plot is pretty weak compared to the first two films, and was too similar to the first film which was better. Some of the jokes, like Marty's dancing fall flat and there is a bit to much self referencing and repeated jokes. But they are still some good jokes, and Christopher Lloyd and Thomas F. Wilson were good in the film. Michael J. Fox is good as Marty, letting the character grow a bit more, but as Seamus his character wasn't that interesting and his Irish accent was terrible.Robert Zemeckis is known for his skill with special effects, but in this film he takes a more traditional approach, using stunt work and little graphics. He was trying to make a 50 style western with a modern twist. He again does a very good job with the series.Trilogies have often been a problem for Hollywood, with the third film being the weakest. It's not hard to think of examples, the Godfather Part III, X-Men: the Last Stand, Alien 3, Terminator: Rise of the Machines, Blade Trinity, The Matrix Revolutions, all good examples of films ruining their predecessors. However Back to the Future Part III is more fitting to the first two films and is meant to be an end to the series.
Jack Nicholson is of course known as one of the best actors of his generations and one of the first films to show case his talents was the drama Five Easy Pieces, which earned him his first Oscar nomination.Bobby (Nicholson) is a talented pianist who is running from his past. He works as an oil rig worker with his friend Elton (Billy 'Green' Bush). He is mean spirited to his girlfriend, Rayette (Karen Black) and often cheats on her and puts her down, leading to her suffering depression. But when Bobby's sister, Partita (Lois Smith) tells him his father is very sick Bobby and Rayette go on a road trip northwards to Puget Sound in Washington State.Five Easy Pieces is a terrifically acted filled with fantastic performances throughout. Nicholson gives a great performance of someone who is faulted, selfish man, a complex character who is exhibits both good and bad elements. He is human and is longs to escape in the wide empty wilderness that America has to offer. Bobby pushes away all the people that love him as he embarks on a course of self-destruction. Black played a very sympathetic character in comparison and all the performances are natural and organic throughout.Stylistically and tonally Five Easy Pieces is similar to other films from the period, particularly Midnight Cowboy, Easy Driver and Taxi Driver. They all have a similar looks and they explore themes such as identity, isolation and class conflict. This is a film not set in a glamour parts of America, it is set in small industrial towns, travel diners and stark environments of deserts to wet woodlands. Even the house of Bobby's wealthy family was tight and cramped.Looking at director Bob Rafelson's filmography it is clear that Five Easy Pieces is his best film. He delivered a tight character driven story about a fault man with a quick 94 minute length. The pacing was perfect. There is a good cinematography as it shows off the landscapes or using hand-held cameras when needed.Five Easy Pieces works as a personal drama with a man falling up he his own selfishness and self-destruction, a film looking at family relationships and the differences with class and education, a man's attempting to escape and as a road movie exploring different parts and different elements of America.
Based on the memoirs of Eric Lomax, the World War II drama The Railway Man is a very competently made, brilliantly acted film that will attempt to push the heartstrings of its audience.In 1980 Eric (Colin Firth) is a rail enthusiast who travels around the UK and has detailed knowledge about train timetables and British towns. Whilst travelling to Edinburgh Eric meets Patti (Nicole Kidman), a former nurse and the pair have a whirlwind romance and marry each other. But soon Eric's old demons start to suffer and despite his emotional distress he refuses to confide in his wife and she seeks help from one of Eric's old war comrades (Stellan Skarsgård).In 1942 the young Eric (Jeremy Irvine) is a junior signals officer in British Army during the Fall of Singapore. As a Prisoner of War he is sent to build the notorious Thai-Burma Railway. When it is discovered he build a radio Eric is taken to be tortured by a young Kempeitai (secret police) officer, Takashi Nagase (Tanroh Ishida).The Railway Man is a superb acted film as both Irvine and Firth play the character. Both actors share the same mannerisms, speech patterns and characteristics, reflecting each other and being able to convicting able to play the same man. Firth gives a reserved performance as the prim and proper Englishman before revealing his pain and emotions but pushes his wife away, not letting her in. Firth brilliantly plays a man with Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder, particularly as he is from a generation where men do not talk about feelings, you just deal with them.Irvine ably plays a young and resourceful man, who knew what the Japanese were planning and with his fellow prisoners build a radio. The young Eric is shown to be a man of bravery and intelligent and his body and spirit are slowly broken by the Kempeitai. Irvine has to go through real physical hardships as his body becomes thinner and goes through beatings and waterboarding.Kidman offers fine support as Eric's wife trying to help and support her husband, sticking with him even through some of the rough treatment she was on receiving end of. Hiroyuki Sanada as the older Nagase was strong as the guilt ridden man, working well with Firth in their intense scene when Eric finds Nagase. But Skarsgård was miscast as he continued to have a strong Swedish accent despite playing a British war veteran.Australian director Jonathan Teplitzky took on the adaptation and he shows competence behind the camera. Teplitzky was able to bring out a little bit of the Hell the prisoner of wars had to go through. The PoWs were building a railway in some of the most hostile conditions known to man, doing hard labour with emaciated bodies and have brutal beatings that were inflicted on the men.Teplitzky was able to bring out a lot of period detail and there is a great use of radio reports of Allied victories to give us a sense of the time scale of the events. It is refreshing to see a new PoW film after such a long absence.The PTSD element too proved plenty of drama thanks to the performance of Firth and Kidman, being perfectly believable with their struggle. But the romance part of the story was dealt with very quickly and The Railway Man has pacing issues being at times too quick and other times being too slow and drawn out.Teplitzky show some visual flair early one, blending the flashbacks and 1980 as Firth is taken from a English hotel to the Japanese prison camp and to his own Room 101. But as the film progresses Teplitzky shows less visual ambition and becomes more televisual in its approach.The Railway Man is at its best being a PoW film, showing the harsh environments of that life in Asia, particularly because Japanese were notorious brutal to Allied PoWs. It serves a compelling drama that wants to be an emotional experience.7.5/10Please visit www.rocknreelreviews.com
Steven Spielberg has shown himself to be one of the most versatile directors in the world, showing he can tackle almost any genre. But in the 1980s he was more famous for doing blockbusters like Jaws, Close Encounters of the Third Kind and the Indiana Jones series. In the mid 80s tried to change all that by making more serious, Oscar challenging films like The Colour Purple and of course, Empire of the Sun. This led to Spielberg gaining his well earn Oscar for Schindler's List.Starting in 1941, the Japanese army was getting closer to Shanghai. Many British ex-pats are starting to leave China for other British colonies. Jamie Graham (Christian Bale) is a wealth child living in a British area of the city. Jamie is a spoiled child, disrespecting his servants and lives a live of luxury. He is also smart child, who knows a lot about military aviation. When the Japanese troops finally takes Jamie and his family try and felt China. But Jamie is separated and forced to survive in the occupied city. Jamie quickly has to tie his destiny with Basie (John Malkovich), an American who ends up stuck in city, and shows himself to be resourceful, but morally, a little questionable. Jamie and Basie are captured by the Japanese, and forced to live in an internment camp. Jamie has to learn how to survive quickly.Empire of the Sun was based on the J. G. Ballard's semi-autobiographical novel, where he also had to live in Japanese occupied China. Here Spielberg shows his growing skill, working with a good script by Tom Stoppard. Spielberg tells a coming-of-age set during the horrors of war. Jamie really grows as a character, becoming a more caring character, shows how his innocence is clipped away. This is a more artist film by Spielberg with some of the scenes, aiming to put a lot of symbolism in the film. This ending up being very similar to the Soviet classic Come and See (highly recommended viewing). Spielberg shows the collapse of law and order in Shanghai, and tough conditions in a Japanese camp. But Spielberg also tries to show some balance in the film, with some Japanese characters in a more decent light, like a Japanese runaway technician. Jamie shows he has respect for the Japanese for their bravery, and from a distances the audiences slowly see the decline of the Japanese war-effort. Nowadays Spielberg uses CGI in his movies, like in Saving Private Ryan and Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull, but that was not option in 1987. This actually makes the film better because it forced Spielberg to use more old fashioned techniques, and the action felt a lot more real, using real planes throughout. Whilst this is a good film for the most part, there were some moments that felt a little forced and unrealistic. Spielberg also shows that he has a weak for over-sentimentality, but those moments are few and far between. The character of Mrs. Victor (Miranda Richardson) also felt very underplayed, and her part was properly cut from what was originally intended. There is a good cast. Christian Bale at the age of 13 shows that even then he was a talented actor with a good future in actor. He offered an excellent performance and shows a real change in his character. John Malkovich is also a excellent actor and gives a strong performance as a mentor to Jamie. There also other good supporting performances throughout the film, such as Joe Pantoliano, Nigel Havers, Rupert Frazer and Emily Richard.There is a excellent score by John Williams, a long time collaberator with Spielberg, adding to the power of the film. The cinematography by Allen Daviau was also wondering done, showing many different territories of China. Daviau and Spielberg worked very well together to film some very difficult shots. Michael Kahn also offers a good editing job throughout the film.This was originally a project that the great David Lean wanted to direct, but Spielberg was pretty much following in his style. This is one of Spielberg's most surprising films and is well worth watching.
The Soloist was clearly an Oscar bait film, a film based on a book and a true story, has the issues of classical music, homelessness and mental issues, stars two very respected actors, set in Los Angeles and directed by a director with a growing reputation. But it did not pan out that way for the filmmakers.Steve Lopez (Robert Downey Jr.) is a columnist for the Los Angeles Times looking for a story. By a chance encounter Steve meets Nathaniel Ayers (Jamie Foxx), a homeless man but a gifted musician despite only having a two string violin. Steve investigates and finds out Nathaniel had dropped out of Juilliard. It is obvious that Nathaniel is suffering mental illness and Steve sets out to help the man whilst writing about him for the newspaper. Steve's columns start to pull the heartstrings of the city and bring the issues of homelessness and the LAMP Community Center to the attention of the city's authorities. But as Steve gets closer to Nathaniel it is clear that Nathaniel is unstable.The Soloist best feature is the acting and Downey and Foxx have excellent chemistry. Foxx does the best job, making Nathaniel having a calm but erratic speech pattern. He is a man who looks deep inside and does not really want to face the world: Steve is the only person who makes him. Foxx also has to show when Nathaniel turns and being more aggressive. Downey is of course a gifted actor and you can believe in the friendship between the two men, but I do not like the way his character was written to be a bit of a klutz. It's not Downey's fault but it was like they wanted a cheap laugh.Joe Wright is of course a director with a future and as I write this I am personally looking forward to his next film Hanna. The Soloist is obviously an attempt for Wright to step away from his confront zone, period English drama. He does attempt to make The Soloist more visual, with tracking shots (but you really do not want a tracking shot over a load of toilet cubicles. But many of these visual tricks felt a bit forces, almost like look at me, whether it was looking at a papier-mâché globe with a hurricane and it turns into TV footage of Hurricane Karina or when Nathaniel is in a concert hall and he can see the music. I personally preferred the more grounded stuff set in the Los Angeles inner-city, showing how homeless people are suffering from their addictions. They stuff had a bit more bite to it. I do like some of the references to Amadeus, with the young version of Nathaniel practicing the cello with his arm and you could hear the music in his head. There is also great classic music as you would expect from a film like this.One of the major issues is homelessness in America. In America it is clear that quite a lot of homeless people have mental health issues and since state and federal does not do anything to help them. In Europe or anywhere else in the industrialised world people like that would be put into care and given the treatment they need. The America healthcare system was a real joke, where you only got decent care if you could afford it, not based on need, a system that only profits insurance and pharmaceutical companies is put ahead of the care of the parent: a system fully supported by the Republican party! Rant over.Within the film there is flashbacks about Nathaniel showing he was a child prodigy and his time in Juilliard as he descents into madness. To me that would have been a very dark and interesting film about how he became homeless and his only outlet was classical music. But that's just me.
British comedy is a strange creature. There are films that are satirical, such as In the Loop, satirical, like Four Lions, to intelligence and dialogue driven, Withnail and I, and films that aim for low key charm, Calendar Girls. Sometimes a film may try and made a number of these features, like the work of Edgar Wright. Based on a graphic novel by Posy Simmonds, Tamara Drewe hits our screens, with Gemma Arterton's profile continuing to increase.The village of Ewedown has become a writers retreat, a place for writers to relax, work and chew the fat. Crime novelist Nicholas Hardiment (Roger Allam) and wife Beth (Tasmin Greig) run the place, with an American academic, Glen (Bill Camp (who sounds a lot like William Hurt)) struggling with his book on Thomas Hardy staying with them. In the village two schoolgirls, Jody (Jessica Barden) and Casey (Charlotte Christie) cause havoc and mayhem simply because they are bored. But the village is turned on its head when the attractive journalist Tamara Drewe (Arterton) returns home to sell her out house. She turns heads, including drummer Ben Sergeant (Dominic Cooper), her old frame Andy (Luke Evans) and Nicholas.Writer Moira Buffini and director Stephen Frears make a film with drama and wit, and some moments of out right laughs. Frears was able to inject some style, like when characters speaking when there are on the phone. The humour of the film relies on number of areas, witty comments and observation, physical violence and visual gags. The schoolgirls offer a lot of comedy because many people can empathies with their situation: rural England is not the most exciting place to grow up as a teenager. Their mischief making and thrills about a star in their village compensates Barden lack of confidence as an actress. It is refreshing to characters that do look their age. Frears and Buffini aim to a make a charming comedy, but with more swearing; so trying to have their cake and eat. The two should have tried to make gone one way or the other. Strangely for a film called Tamara Drewe, there are long periods where she is not on the screen or mentioned. There are plots involving Nicholas wayward eyes and the budding relationship between Glen and Beth: walking the fine line of drama and comedy. Tamara Drewe goes from being pretty serious and hits you with a sudden joke and vice versa: working with effect. Tamara Drewe is very British beast, but Glen the American does offer an outsider view and will allow a non-British audience a point-of-view, with few British swears and slang words being used. There are some issues affecting rural England, like rich city flock buying houses and making villages too expensive to live in and boredom for young people: but it is hardly a political piece.Whilst some of pacing is a little slow and the film ends up sidetracking at moments, there are strong performances from most of the cast. Atherton shows why she is a raising star, giving Tamara a quick, biting wit. Allam effectively plays a very slimy writer who takes advantage of his wife and he seems to have a nack for playing dislikeable characters (his previous roles have been in V for Vendetta and Speed Racer). Cooper and Evans work well against each other as love rivals for Tamara, with Cooper really understands the part of a pretentious indie musician. Greig too gives a good performance and given her background as a comic actress, she her character is for the most part serious, with moments of witty comments.Tamara Drewe is more a gently comedy with small jokes and drama and not a out right laugh fest as the promotion will want you to believe.
James Cameron has made many great films over his career, including The Terminator, Terminator 2 and Aliens. But The Abyss is often forgotten when compared to his other films and was a box office flop when it was first released.An American Navy sub mysteriously sinks in the Cayman Trough at the height of the Cold War. With the American Navy unable to launch their own recuse operation they hire an oil drilling crew working on an experimental underwater oil platform. The US SEALs, the crew and the platform's designer, Lindsey Brigman (Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio) personalities start to clash underworld, with the SEALs' leader, Lt. Coffey (Michael Biehn) suffering from pressure madness, America and the Soviet Union moving closer to war and the potential discovery of alien life in the depths the ocean.The Abyss is a very tight, claustrophobic thriller which is very much about paranoid and distrust like The Thing and about the delicate state the world was in during the Cold War. The Abyss is a very character driven film, with all the characters being very distinct and memorial. I personally feared that some of the characters were going to only defined by their quirks or traits such as one of them being a conspiracy theorist and has a pet rat and other one is a woman in a cowboy hat and listens to country music, but the characters slowly get more fleshed out and likable as the film progress, particularly the relationship between Lindsey and Bud (Ed Harris). The team is as memorable as the Marines in Aliens, but there still leave an impression. Compared to most of Cameron's filmography, The Abyss is an action light film and more like a sci-fi film of old. As already mentioned that The Abyss does share similarities to The Thing because of its themes and basic settling (a group of highly trained personnel isolated in an extreme environment). At the end of the special edition The Abyss in the Special Edition also shares a lot of similarities to The Day the Earth Stood Still, with a little bit of 2010: The Year We Made Contact near the end and this is when Cameron goes on his soapbox about war and nuclear disarmament.For the time the special effects were incredible, using a combination of models and minitures and CGI. The water effects particularly hold up, especially when you still see water effect being very hard to do, like in The Last Airbender. The aliens too also had a unique design, looking like glowing stringrays with the pink, purple and blue lights and the aliens themselves had a mix of a classic grey alien look with more colour to them.Composer Alan Silverstri was also able to add to the visuals with an excellent score, using many different styles. There were heavy drums for the military to a softer choir when we see the aliens are present, giving them a divine presence.The Abyss is a long film and the Special Edition is over two and half hours and near the end the film The Abyss does start to drag. This is not helped when Cameron becomes more preachy and a little cheesy when Bud meets the aliens.The Abyss is a thoughtful, character driven sci-fi from Mr Cameron that reflects more older sci-fi films and shows that special effects should be used more then just for spectacle.
Nelson Mandela is one of the most important and celebrated political history, known for his imprisonment, his stand against apartheid and his commitment to peace and racial equality. A film based on his autobiography was always going to be of interest and seen as clear awards bait.Mandela: Long Walk to Freedom follows a young Nelson Mandela (Idris Elba) in his early days in politics, working as a lawyer in Johannesburg, 1942 and is approached by the ANC to become an achieve member of the defiance movement. During the cause of the film it follows Mandela's relationship with Winnie Madikizela (Naomie Harris), his move into violence, his trial and imprisonment. But the 1980s South Africa becomes ungovernable the Apartheid regime are forced to open negotiations with Mandela.Mandela's autobiography is a large book, spanning nearly 800 pages and the film attempts to tell the story of over 50 years of history in a 2 hour, 20 minute package. This results in a bio-pic of broad brushstrokes, giving ups brief snippets of moments in Mandela's life, giving us a glance of events instead of going into any details. This is especially the case of the early part of the film, skipping through Mandela's early political activism, the foray into terrorism and the trial. Even the events on Robbin Island were quick and it was only when the film enters into the political negotiations when there is more of a narrative throughout and we able to feel the violent tension South Africa was going through.Mandela: Long Walk to Freedom has an excellent cast with the likes of Elba and Harris and they performs were able to transcend the fact they did not look the like people they did played. They get the voices and mannerisms down as the film explores Mandela's and Winnie's different ideologies later on in the film. They relationship is one of the longest running themes of the films. The supporting cast were also very strong in their performances and there was no weak link in the film.Mandela: Long Walk to Freedom was helmed by Justin Chadwick and written by William Nicholson. Chadwick is a very safe director and Mandela is a competently made film. His direction is solid, showing casing the period effective, with set pieces being well set up and well shot as the film goes through a lighting pace. But it was the script that was the biggest let down, with Nicholson rushing through Mandela's life instead of letting moments have a chance to breath. This was a film that either needed to be longer, a three hour epic so many parts of Mandela's life could be explored or been more focused on one or two events. There were parts that were just screen writing tricks then a real moments, like the fist metaphor.Mandela: Long Walk to Freedom is a solidly made, but safe film. There are excellent moments in the second half of the film as South Africa implodes with violence, but it is a very safe film that tries to fit too much in its running time. It is a film that can easily appeal to a middle -aged, mainstream audience.6.5/10
Woody Allen is one of the most renounced comedy and romance directors around and iconised my many. His heyday was in the late 70s to the mid-80s and Annie Hall is often considered one of his best films.Alvy Singer (Allen) is a neurotic, paranoid, pessimistic, left comedian in New York City, with a thing for intelligentialism and lives a life of romantic self-sabotage and the film follows his relationship with singer Annie Hall (Diane Keaton), from the start to the end.Annie Hall is a dialogue driven comedy with a surreal edge to it with the ways it breaks the forth wall. Annie Hall is constantly witty with the jokes and dialogue exchanges between characters as it somehow finds the right balance between naturalism and comic thanks to the strength to the acting to making the writing as believable as possible.Allen uses a simple direction style, using as few cuts as possible and many scenes were played out in long takes. It is effective for letting the comedy and dialogue play out because the actors could interact without breaks or disruptions. It made the performances more organic. But Allen does bring in some directional flourishes with the way characters appear in flashbacks and how a couple of times how to scenes play out at the same time in a split screen. Annie Hall is a film that has been referred a number of times in numerous TV shows such as The Simpsons and Family Guy and for good reason.Annie Hall is made out to be a charming woman whom Keaton plays with ease. It is easy to see the appeal of this woman to men. But Alvy comes off being very selfish and self-centred despite his neurotises. He is really more concerned about himself and what Annie was able to bring to him. Annie was felt compelled to stay with Alvy.As well as the theme of romance, relationships and love Allen does also introduces themes about culture, both low end and high end. Allen is critical of both, with how Hollywood functions and the lifestyle, particularly how TV shows manipulate audiences in a very unsubtle jab against the industry. He also takes on takes up the pretentiousness of pseudo-intelligentialism showcased by some of Alvy's set and he looks down on it, yet he is also a part of this set with his ability to over thing.Annie Hall is a funny film that blends a natural, grounded situation that many people can relate to whilst telling it an unconventional way with its fourth wall breaking style and elements of insight into various characters minds in many different ways. It is a fine example of an excellently written script whilst telling a simple story. This is Woody Allen at his best.
When I heard about this film I thought that it would be my cup of tea. I am interested in espionage, history and the Cold War and I like Robert De Niro. This film tells the story of the birth of the CIA during the Second World War to the aftermath of the Bay of Pigs invasion. The film focuses on Edward Wilson (Matt Damon) who starts out as a student at Yale University, gets recruited to the CIA and raises up the ranks. He first spies on his English professor, suspected of being a Nazi sympathiser and recruiter, for the FBI. After that success, the head of the OSS recruits him and sends him to England to learn the tricks of the spying trade. He slowing make contacts with American and British figures and works his way up to a senior officer in Berlin at the end of the war before becoming the head of counter-intelligence. The film also focuses on Edward's personal life. He is emotionally dead and never shows any feelings. He ends up marrying a woman named Margaret (Angelina Jolie) because he gets her pregnant. He has a strained relationship with his son who tries to follow in his fathers footsteps. Edward was never able to be with the woman he loves and I personally feel sorry for his wife because she lives a lonely, isolated lifestyle. The film also looks at many aspects of espionage and controversial bits of America's and the CIA's history. This includes the Americans helping Nazi scientists to work with them, the use of waterboarding and LSD and working with the Mafia during the Bay of Pigs.Some people have criticised Angelina Jolie as Margaret, I personally think that it was a good move because she is meant to be someone very attractive and able to seduce Edward at first. She is also a good actress, she has won a Oscar and has done very well in a lot of her films.If you are anything like me then you will find this film very interesting.
Changeling story has been described as being so extraordinary that it's impossible to make up. Changeling is a powerful film, which has multiple stories for audiences to sink their teeth into: a family tragedy, police corruption, a story about a serial killer, a political campaign and a trial movie just to name a few. It is a film that was overlooked by the Oscars, like The Dark Knight was in 2008.In 1928 Christine Collins (Angelina Jolie) is a loving single mother to 9-year-old Walter (Gattlin Griffith). When she is called into work as cover Walter disappears, with Christine missing him for five months. When the LAPD say they found Walter, giving the media a great story. There is a catch: the boy was not really Walter and Christine starts to campaign against the police who claims she is insane, an unfit mother, etc. With the aid of veteran campaigner Rev. Gustav Briegleb (John Malkovich), Christine proves that the police knowingly gave her the wrong boy and bring down a corrupt police force and mayor. Add this done with backdrop of the investigation of the Wineville Chicken Coop murders.Changeling had everything you would except from a award contending film: great actor, writing and direction. It had a number of themes and ideas that would show that it is a real film of merit. Some ideas of the film are similar to L.A. Confidential, One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, Girl, Interrupted, many good serial killer films and the electro-shock treatment scene reminding me of Requiem for a Dream. Under the skillful director of Clint Eastwood he captures the periods with all set designs and costumes, whilst using more modern film techniques, like steady-cam and CGI: it was a little like David Fincher's Zodiac. After some slow moments in the beginning Eastwood is able to pick up the pace and he is able mix all the story elements together like it was effortless. He is able to film some really dark scenes, particular the way the scenes in the chicken coop were effectively creepy and scary, particularly how he used silhouettes; but so too were the scenes in the psychopathic ward. Eastwood shows how a political campaign functions on the ground and how the police would go about discrediting someone, using their own doctors and pretty much lock them up without any due process. Eastwood knows how to make a film and Changeling is one of Eastwood's best films as a director.Though Eastwood is a very talented director, he had a great script by J. Michael Straczynski, who is best known as a sci-fi writer, writing Babylon 5 and comic books, particularly Spider-man and Thor. For Changeling its report that he up 6000 historical documents and legal transcripts, with 95% of the script based on it. He writes a brilliant screenplay filled with character and ideas. As well as exploring the idea that the LAPD was corrupt (which still seems to be an issue e.g. the Rodney King beating), the police doing everything to discredit any critics, particularly women, and look for quick results and not willing to admit when they made a mistake (which is still true today). There are other ideas, such as the sociological idea that insanity is a social construct, that when someone is marked insane all their behaviour is seen through that lens. There are ideas of using the pulpit as a political platform, which of course men like Martin Luther King, Desmond Tutu and Pope John Paul II used. We get to see the make-up of a serial killer, someone who is creepy and insane, but also very cold and cunning, carefully planning his crimes. The idea of a serial killer is also nothing new, they have always been around in some form. Even the title Changeling has meaning because it in fairy tales a changeling was a soulless or empty child. The other meaning is a mystrical creature like a troll or an elf steal a human child and replace it with one of their own, thereby it ends up being raised by humans. Hopefully Straczynski can write more films like this and get to fit more ideas in his sci-fi work.There is a great cast in the film. Jodie in my opinion is a terrific actress and I prefer to see her in more roles like this, compared to action roles like Salt and the Tomb Raider series. There is a little bit of shouting which is expected from a Oscar nominated performance she was still very convincing and powerful as a mother fighting a powerful enemy and determined to find her son. Her performance felt natural, a woman who was intelligent, committed and wrong. Malkovich's performance was a lot more understated then his performance (usually psychopaths) and because of it I think its his best. He too plays his role with real conviction, a dedicated campaigner who wants to support Christine but also has his own agenda. He should have had more award nominations for this role. Jason Butler Harner was effectively creepy and insane as a serial killer who does not care about what he did and Jeffrey Donovan was charismatic and oozed hatred as the police Captain who plays one of the main antagonists of the film. The child actors were also very good in the film, particularly Eddie Alderson as a very scared and emotionally damaged young teenager suffering emends guilt.Overall 2008 was a great year for films and Changeling can easily join the ranks of films like The Dark Knight, Wall-E and The Boy in Striped Pyjamas as the high points.
Now this film could have been a complete washout, a quick low-budget cash-in. Luckily it wasn't.28 Weeks Later is a sequel to the successful zombie 28 Days Later. As the title suggests, the film takes place 28 weeks after the original out-break of the Rage virus in Britain. The film starts with Don (Robert Carlyle) with his wife Alice (Catherine McCormack), and a group of other survivors in a blackout out house just trying to survive. A young boy comes and begs to be let in and after that the infected start to attack the house. This is when Don leaves without his wife and suffers from surviver's guilt. The film then jumps into the future and the American military are in London helping with the reconstruction of Britain, and start to repopulate Britain from the Isle of Dogs (not a good place to start in my opinion). Within the returning civilians are Don's teenage daughter and 12-year-old son. After hearing his story they break out of the green zone and head towards where there old home was. It is there when they find their mum, who is a alive and not infected. Sciencfic studies showed that she had the virus but was immune to its affects. It was then when the virus is re-introduced to the capital.This film could have been a poisoned chalice to anyone who took it on. However, I felt that the director Juan Carlos Fresnadillo, did a very good job. He has a good reputation in Spain as a horror director when he did Intacto and this was his second major film. He has good potential in the Spanish and English speaking world. 28 Weeks Later is a bit more actioned packed then 28 Days Later, but I don't think thats a bad thing. It is a very good on a horror level as well, being subtle, and gory. There are a lot of good scenes in this film and shows that the British Industry can challenge Hollywood. The horror genre can be subject to bad effects and bad acting, but this film doesn't do that. There are some good actors which experienced backwards: no Z-listers or people just starting out, except for the child actors. There is also a political sub-context in this film, namely about the Iraq war and American foreign policy. There are things such the mission accomplished when the war is still is going on, the use of terms like Green-zone and reconstruction and some troops itching for action. The film is critical of American policy and some of the senior military leadership, but it also shows that some American characters in a positive light.28 Days Later isn't as good as 28 Weeks Later, but it is still a worthy film and a good addiction to the horror genre. There is also plenty of room for a second sequel.
In 2001 one of the America's biggest leaks was plugged when a senior FBI intelligence officer Robert Hanssen was arrested for selling secrets to the Soviet Union and Russia. His betrayal lead to 50 operatives being found out and some of them being killed by the KGB. Breach is story about his downfall in the space of two months.Eric O'Neill (Ryan Phillppe) is a young ambitious, counter-intelligence/counter-terrorism specialist who wants to be become a Special Agent. Kate Burroughs (Laura Linney) gives him the chance to be fast-tracked by assigning him the mission to work with Hanssen (Chris Cooper), a senior agent who had been an expert in counter-intelligence against the Soviets and now a computer expert and leading the FBI's efforts against cyber attacks. Hanssen is also accused of being a sexual deviant. But when O'Neill starts to investigate he believes the story does not fit: Hanssen is a committed Catholic, a member of Opus Dei, a Clinton hater and he does come up with good points against the politicking and tuft wars within the American intelligence community. But when O'Neill is told the real reason why the FBI want to bring Hanssen, O'Neill has to get the evidence and keep his friendship to bring the Russian mole down.The story, style, tone and character development of the film reminded me of Donnie Brasco, a crime film starting Al Pacino and Johnny Depp. In Donnie Brasco Depp plays a FBI agent who has to infiltrate a Mafia family and ends up becoming a friend the head of the family. In Breach O'Neill is placed in Hanssen's office as his clerk and the older man ends up becoming his mentor. Also both film sharing a similar subplot that both protagonist home lives suffer because of their careers.Billy Ray writes and directs Breach with skill. In a 1 hour 40 minute running Ray makes a tout, fast-pace and subtle film. There are no big action set-pieces in the film and all the actions conducted by the FBI and O'Neill are real, like O'Neill downloading information from Hannsen PDA, making the film more tense. The look of counter-intelligence was realistic and will interest anyone who enjoys a good spy film. But Ray's may aim is to show the relationship, the trust between the two leads and how it takes it told on O'Neill. Ray employs Mychael Danna to composer a key-low score, wonderfully simple at times with a someone just playing the piano, adding to the subtle nature of the film. But Ray does surrender to some typical Hollywood moments: most of them happen in the ends so I won't spoiler it for you but you will know. The scene where Hanssen's car was dismantle was very similar to the scene in The French Connection.Acting wise Phillppe and Cooper are not Depp and Pacino. Cooper is a solid actor throughout and makes sure is grounded, coming up with good points about American Intelligence, but to me a lonesome Republican nutcase. But Phillppe is not a great actor: there are flash of talent like when he argues with his wife but other times his performance is pretty standard at best. The film also cast Caroline Dhavernas, a French Canadian actress to play a German character and well, her accent was too faint and did not sound German. The best performer was Linney as the bitchy FBI agent who softens up in the film and plays her role with real conviction. Plus the film has Dennis Haysbert in it and he is a definition of cool.Overall a very worthy enjoyable film with a few minor problems.
With the promise of being the darkest of the Star Wars film, Revenge of the Sith was the prequel we all wanted to see: how Anakin Skywalker became force of evil Darth Vader and fell into the dark side. Luckily Revenge of the Sith was the best of the prequels, but not as good as the original trilogy.The Republic is in the middle of a brutal civil war against the Separatists led by Count Dooku (Christopher Lee) and General Grievous (Michael Wood). The Separatists launched a bold mission against the Republic, kidnapping Chancellor Palpatine (Ian McDiarmid). Obi-Wan Kenobi (Ewan McGregor) and Anakin Skywalker (Hayden Christensen) led a rescue mission and Anakin becomes a hero of the Republic. Anakin ends up becoming very close to the Chancellor and with his influence Anakin becomes a member of the Jedi Council. Anakin was quickly thrown in the middle of a conflict between the Jedi and the Chancellor. Anakin also suffered from nightmare that his wife Padme (Natalie Portman) dying during childbirth. The Chancellor makes promises that he could save Padme because of the power of the Dark side. Anakin's corruption quickly spirals.Revenge of the Sith is far from being a perfect film, but it is better then the Phantom Menace and Attack of the Clones. There are a few reasons why that is: there is a great deal of action with a lot of lightsabre fights and giant battles. Some may be a bit too reliant on CGI but it still very entertaining to watch. The plot was streamlined, with much of the political element cut out and focuses on Anakin's corruption. There is the important issue of the Civil War, responsible for most of the action sequences and an obvious drive for the characters: but Anakin is the main focus of the film. It also contents the obvious message that absolute power corrupts and that Anakin's fearing the lost of his loved ones was the reason why he turned. Ian McDiarmid made a very effective villain with his oily charisma and had groomed Anakin for years. Revenge of the Sith also takes a darker route to previous Star Wars films. Much of the humour is cut out and the film looks at the ideas of military coups and merciless killings. The most potent scene is Anakin willingness to kill children. But there are obvious problems. The acting is bad to start with. Somehow Christensen is even worst then he was in Attack of the Clones, either just shouting or talking in a monotone. He was really unbelievable as a man who turns to evil to save his love ones. It's amazing that he could land such a plum role. Portman had the emotional range of plunk of wood, which is a shame because she can be a good actress. Samuel L. Jackson was on autopilot which was another shame because he can be the king of cool when he is in the right role. Only McDiarmid was worthy of comment. The dialogue is really awful at times, particularly between Anakin and Padme saying things like 'you are so beautiful' 'it's only because I am so in love with you'. Lucas really needs someone else to write his scripts for him. There is also the problem that Revenge of the Sith it makes out that only Yodi and Obi-Wan Kenobi were the only two Jedis that were any good to survive the Purge of the Jedi. Strange when the Jedis are meant to be the best of the best. The fight between Palpatine and Mace Windu was also disappointing, with Palpatine killing 3 Jedi masters very easily; it could have made a great fight between Palpatine and 4 Jedis. The also gives an awful reason why Padme dies and why the advance medical science of this world could not save her. I also don't know what Lucas was smoking when he created that lizard creature that Obi-Wan Kenobi rides. The film also seems to have a problem involving it's time-scale, with the events seeming to go by quite quickly, but shouldn't it have lasted 6 months because of Padme's pregnancy. Finally as a friend of my said when he saw the film, Jar-Jar Binks was in the film for 2 seconds, 2 seconds too long.Revenge of the Sith is entertaining as an action film the best of the prequels.
There is a lot of controversy surrounding Nowhere Boy, the biopic of John Lennon's early years. Lennon's family were critical of the project and on set director Sam Taylor-Wood earn herself a toyboy, star Aaron Johnson. But Nowhere Boy is very well film and a excellent directional debut for Taylor-Wood.In 1950s Liverpool John Lennon (Johnson) lives with his aunt Mimi (Kristin Scott Thomas) whom uncle and father-figure, George (David Threlfall) dies of a heart attack. This tragic event spurs John on to find his mother, Julia (Anne-Marie Duff), who happened to live close by. Julia has her own family, with two daughter, but she soon teaches John about rock'n'roll and how to play the banjo. Soon John starts to form his own skittle band: but Mimi and Julia soon clash and John's domestic situation becomes more chaotic.Nowhere Boy was written by Matt Greenhalgh, who also wrote Control, he must have a liking for musical bio-pics. He was able to write a taut script looking at two different parental approaches and how they have positive and negative effects, as well the forming of a band. This is combined by Taylor-Wood's effective directing, making a fast pace with a strong visual style, form her sideways tracking shots of John as he is walking and the montage scene where John is practicing on the banjo in real time with everything around him is sped-up. There is a real period feel in the sets and the costumes, making it feel more real, even more impressive considering the low budget and there is a very good soundtrack of classic 50s rock.The best feature of the film is the three leading actors of Johnson, Scott Thomas and Duff. All three are very talented actors. Duff is particularly impressive as the fun loving biological mother of John who obviously suffering from bipolar disorder. She is great for John's musical development but terrible for when John really needs her. Mimi is a more restraint character, a typical old-fashioned personality of stiff-upper lip and don't show emotion. She is a sterner character who does is a disciplinant and does not know how to react to a rebellious teenager. Johnson himself is a very promising actor, also proving himself in Kick-Ass and he has a great future ahead of him. He had to show a young man who is talented, has a number of desires but also got a lot of anger inside of him directed to both his mother and aunt.For Beatles fans there are few references to Strawberry Fields and the Cavern Club and I am sure there are more that I missed.
The Last Emperor was a major milestone in Chinese cinema, it was the first Western film allowed to be made since the form of the Communist government in 1949 and it was also the first feature film allowed to be filmed in the Forbidden City. The Last Emperor is a grand story, from 1908 to mid 60s about the last emperor of China.Told in flashbacks Puyi (John Lone) is a prisoner of the People's Republic of China, he is charged for be a collaborator with the Japanese in Manchuria. As a child Puyi was crowned the emperor of China at the age of three. The film explores his youth in the Forbidden City, where he is pretty much a prisoner who is not allow to be outside in the real world or be with children, to being a brat who can do whatever he wants but with no understanding of the political situation outside his walls, to a smarter young man who wants to reform his court and being tutored by Reginald Johnston (Peter O'Toole). After being removed as the emperor of China he ends up becoming the puppet of emperor of Manchukuo for the Japanese, with his relationship declining as he desires some sort of power.The Last Emperor is very much like a David Lean film, shot in a similar style, matching his scope on a grand scale and tackling a story he would have handled. The Last Emperor's setting in a Chinese prison was very much like the framing device was very much like the one used in Doctor Zhivago. Visually Bernardo Bertolucci and his cinematographer Vittorio Storaro do make a great looking moving, with large colourful scenes in the Forbidden City to the grab greyness of a Communist Prison. Bertolucci shows a really interesting culture within the Chinese court and there are big ideas about how isolation and a boy being told that he is going to rule and do what ever he wants can really mess up someone's childhood. As a child Puyi was a brat but there is sadness and lonely because he can not be with children, nor be with his mother, resulting with him relying on a wet nurse at an old age. There are also ideas of a child who is meant to be a ruler but obviously has no understanding of the political situation, because of his age and his councillors lie to him. As he gets older he is more politically enlightened and want to be a reformer, but again there are ideas that he still wanted to be a ruler, therefore he ended up in leagues with the Japanese. Bertolucci uses some clever imagery, such as hearing a protest outside the walls of the Forbidden City when the troops start to fire at them, showing both Puyi isolation and powerlessness, as well as the political turmoil that China was suffering. and the coronation of Puyi as emperor of Manchukuo is at a windy, empty mound, a symbol that Puyi was hollow figure for the Japanese: but he was wanting to rule for the good of his people. Another powerful image is when Puyi tries to cycle out of the Forbidden City, seeing Beijing/Peking and the guards shut the gates in front of him. To add to the atmosphere Bertolucci with his composers also employ an excellent Chinese sounding score throughout the film.There is an excellent cast, giving performances like in a Lean film. Lone was excellent as the Emperor and though it was a weird casting an English man to play a Scot (and not even bother doing an accent), O'Toole was very strong. Ying Ruocheng too gave a good performance as the prison governor and even though it was a very small role, I loved Ric Young as a harsh interrogator. The child actor were very good and confidence in their performances, with Richard Vuu being very sweet as the 3-year-old version of Puyu. Joan Chen was assured (and lovely looking) as Wan Jung, starting out a nice young woman who likes Puyu for being an intelligence young man but slowly destroys herself with opium. I personally would have preferred to have seen the film in Chinese languages but because it was in English the film can appeal to a wider audience: plus my favourite film is Schindler's List which in theory should have been made in German, so I can't really complain.To anyone who is interested in history or Chinese culture then The Last Emperor is a must see for you. It is also an excellent film if you like Lean films like Doctor Zhivago, Lawerence of Arabia and The Bridge over the River Kwai and the Spielberg film Empire of the Sun.
If Tom Rothman, Chairman of Fox Studios is reading this, take note: this was when the decline of the original Batman franchise started. The reason was because of Warner Brothers believing that Batman Return did not make enough money and thereby turned away from Tim Burton's dark (even though I don't think its as dark as some others think) and gone back to the 60s model of Batman, which was the worst version of Batman possible. A family friendly version of a dark superhero doesn't work and studio interference goes too far. That's what makes me worry about Tom Rothman's idea with the Wolverine film.Tim Burton was ditched, but remained as a producer and Joel Schumacher replaced him. Michael Keaton also left the role of Batman and Val Kilmer (one of the most bland actors around) replaced him. The film also introduce Robin to the franchise and Batman faces Two-Face and the Riddler in this flick. The basic plot is Two-Face and the Riddler team up to drain the intelligence of Gotham, using a special device on television sets. Dick Grayson aka Robin, whole family is murdered by Two-Face and Bruce Wayne takes him in. At the Wayne mansion Dick discovery's who Bruce really is and become Batman's sidekick. Bruce is also falling for psychologist Chase Meridian (Nicole Kidman), who herself is interested in Batman.The first problem is that this film is aimed at kids: this is just wrong for Batman fans because we all know that he is a very dark character. The plot is very thin and completely over the top. It is easy to compare it to Christoper Nolan's version which was darker, more down too earth and takes the most realistic road possible. The casting was not very good either. I do not rate Val Kilmer as an actor, a big mistake for Chris O'Donnell, Tommy Lee Jones couldn't be bothered, Jim Carrey was not under control and Nicole Kidman was still finding her feet when it came to acting. There was no depth to the film. When it comes to more modern superhero films they was at least some ideas coming to suffer. Just look at the first two X-Men films, the Nolan Batmans and even in Spiderman there was psychological and personal issues. All those films were taken seriously: Batman Forever wasn't. The director by Schumacher, whilst not terrible, is nothing to write home about. He does not have the vision of Burton or Nolan and he should stick to tout films. When I was younger I did enjoy this film: but you give a 10-year-old a Batman film starting Jim Carrey they are bound to like.Batman Forever and Batman and Robin are great models on how not to make a superhero and producers should take note that too much interference will ruin a film!
The Basketball Diaries is a competent, but faulted film. It is film which has Leonardo DiCaprio and Marc Walburg in early performances.The Basketball Diaries tells the story of four friends who play basketball for their high school team and like to spent their spare time taking drugs, especially heroin. As Basketball players their futures seem promising but they slowly decent into a life of sex and crime, ending up getting kicked out of there homes and out of school. They are forced to live on the streets of 1970s New York and hit rock bottom.The film is well made, and DiCaprio does give a good performance. I think it was a well directed film, really showing how bleck New York was and how bad drugs are. The film reminds of films like Thirteen, Trainspotting and Requiem for a Dream. However, my criticism of the film is there is no sympathetic character in film, and therefore, you don't truly sorry for any of them. This wasn't the case in the other films I mention.The Basketball Diaries is worth watching, but you don't have to knock-yourself out to see it.
The legends of King Arthur are so famous that most people know the very basics about legends. But because of centuries of alterations that most people have a shrewd view of the legends. John Boorman's 1981 Excalibur film sets out to be closer to the original Medieval legends and it is the closest we are going to get to them on screen.In the Dark Ages a land is a lawless land and is hindered by civil war. One man, Uther Pendragon (Gabriel Byrne) was able to proclaim himself king through force and cements his rule with the powerful sword Excalibur. But his power corrupts him, breaking an alliance because of his lust and uses Merlin's (Nicol Williamson) magic to fulfil his lust, but any child created from the union goes to Merlin.Years later Excalibur has been placed in a stone and whoever can lift it can be the king and a teenager Arthur (Nigel Terry), a squire to a knight is able to lift the sword. Soon the land is bound to Arthur, if Arthur prospers, so does the land and if he fails, the land and people suffer. During his reign he finds love with Guenevere (Cherie Lunghi) and forms a friendship and rivalry with Lancelot (Nicholas Clay) and suffers from a great threat in the form of sorceress and his half-sister, Morgana (Helen Mirren).Excalibur is a proper adult fantasy film that is filled with violence battle scenes and nudity and does not shy away from the implied rapes and the incest storyline that more child/family friendly versions shy away from. There are some liberties and there are different variations of the legends, the English versions were more grounded and realistic and French versions were more fantasy based, Excalibur still serves as a good summary of Arthurian legends.Excalibur is similar to other darker sword and sorcery films made at the time, particular Conan the Barbarian for his violence, general tone and having incredible film scores. Trevor Jones does supply an excellent score, using original music and classical tunes. Visually Boorman uses both dark visuals in the beginning during the time of chaos and the time of disaster in the beginning and end of the film and juxtaposed it to the brighter visuals when Arthur is at the high of his powers. Boorman does bring you into this medieval world, making you feel the dirt and mud and shows the highs and lows of it and with the costumes and art direction get the right balance between realism and fantasy. It was clear Excalibur did have some budgetary limitations because the battle scenes were pretty small scale and the special effects were weak, even for 1981 standards, Boorman was able to make it work and found ways around it.When the land was decay Boorman does the audience to feel the despair of the people and used some really dark visuals, such as hanging bodies with crows peaking at the dead men's fresh. Whilst a couple scenes did remind me of Monty Python and the Holy Grail on the most part Excalibur is an atmospheric film.The big problem with Excalibur is the acting, with some actors being so hammy that you could make sandwiches out the performances. The most notable was Williamson as Merlin and some moments in the films were funny, but it is unclear if was deliberate or accidental. Mirren is a strong performer as we all know and she did bring out a creepy, manipulative character and we do get see small appearances from Liam Neeson and Patrick Stewart.The 1980s was a period where a lot of sword and sorcery films and Excalibur is one of the best because of the strength of the man behind the camera and the excellent use of the source material, giving us one of the most loyal Arthurian adaptations. It is a shame adult fantasy films cannot be made now.
...but it's good schlock. Escape from New York is possibly John Carpenter's most well know film, along side Halloween. It was a popular hit at the time, and helped make Kurt Russell into a star. Escape from New York has now become a cult hit for younger generations and film fans (especially fans of B-Movies).In 1997 America ends up having a problem with raising levels of crime, and in the middle of a war with the Soviet Union and China. To solve the crime problem New York has become the largest prison in the world, where no one can get in or out. New York itself becomes a lawless city where anything goes. Whilst flying to Hartford, Air Force One is hijacked by a left-wing terrorist, and crashes it in the middle of the prison city. The President (Donald Pleasence) manages to escape, but ends up getting captured by some of the prisoners. There threaten to kill the president if there is any military attempt to free him. The Government need to free him in 24 hours to keep the prospect of peace alive. The warden of the prison (Lee Van Cleef) comes up with one opinion, to send in special-forces veteran/convicted criminal 'Snake' Plissken (Kurt Russell). He describes himself as 'not giving a sh*t', but gets talked in the mission. It becomes a race against time for Snake to save the President from very hostile forces led by the Duke of New York (Issac Hayes) (a possibly subtle reference to the novel A Clockwork Orange?).The plot is pretty thin, but with a film like this, plot isn't the most important think. This is a film about the set pieces, and there some good action based ones. It is also about the characters, John Carpenter setting out to make memorable ones. Snake Plissken is a cool character, with Kurt Russell obviously bases his performance on Clint Eastwood's characters The Man With No Name and Harry Callahan. His so-called uncaring attitude is what makes him an appealing character. We also have another master of cool, Issac Hayes to help with blaxploitation type character: always fun to see. To add balance to the film is Donald Pleasence, the man famous for being the best Blofied and staring in The Great Escape. He is a talented actor, gave the film a bit of galvanise. However the big question is why did the president of the United State have an English accent? I liked the aspect seeing how New York would have delayed, with many people turning against each other, falling into anarchy. There are hints The Warriors and A Clockwork Orange in this film.There are some logically questions to the film's own internal reality, but you have to pull them aside to enjoy the film. The obvious would be why didn't the military just go into the city straight, or why was New York turned into a prison, and where did the citizens go? But that's just nitpicking.A worthy film for B-Movie fans.
If you want to find the definition of a pretentious art house film then Jim Jarmusch's latest film Only Lovers Left Alive supplies that demand, a film that is full of itself, as it digs deeper into literature, science and philosophy.Adam (Tom Hiddleston) is a reclusive vampire musician in Detroit who spends his time collecting guitars and other antiques and has fallen into a suicidal melancholia. His only contacts are a underground dealer, Ian (Anton Yelchin) and a haematologist, Dr. Watson (Jeffrey Wright). On the other side of the world his wife, Eve (Tilda Swinton) has been living a comfortable live in Tangiers with other vampires when she decides to reunite with her husband and reignite their relationship in Motown.Only Lovers Left Alive is a very self-absorbed film, indulging in the main character's depression and working as a form of wish-fulfilment for Jarmusch. As he throws in a vampire who is really Christopher Marlowe, played by John Hurt and there are literary references to Lord Bryon and Marlowe's Dr. Faust.Only Lovers Left Alive is an art-house film that only a certain audience will look for every bit of meaning from every single scene and frame. Jarmusch uses Hiddleston as his surrogate to criticise the downfall of art and culture, using the decaying city of Detroit as the backdrop and symbol to illustrate this, including showing Detroit's major theatre which had been turned into a parking lot.Jarmusch and his team do get a great cast for their film and Hiddleston and Swinton do work well together, having chemistry and showing themselves as the thespians that they are. But it was Mia Wasikowska as Eve's sister, Ava, who had the best role, injecting some energy in the proceedings. She added conflict to the relationship as Adam and Eve have differing opinions about her as Ava is a character who has much more younger, child-like personality and being unable to control her thirst. Wasikowska should have been introduced into the film earlier to give Only Lovers Left Alive more of a dramatic drive. Jeffrey Wright too was underused, only appearing for two scenes.Jamusch makes a very slowly paced, drawn out film, using long montages of driving and conversation about the relationships and past. With the bland, dark cinematography and plodding approach led to Only Lovers Left Alive to be a very boring and bland film that is over-hyped due to the director's reputation.Only Lovers Left Alive does have the occasional witty line, usually courtesy of Swinton and is out its most visually engaging when a dead body has to be deposed. But it is a movie that has little of a narrative, more focused on being arty and philosophical, then telling an interesting vampire story.Please visit www.entertainmentfuse.com
It seems that February is becoming a dumping ground for action films that are expected not to be critical or commercial successes. Some are actually good, like Rambo, some, not very good, like Jumper. When footage of Push was released to Comic-Con in 2008 some people were excited, and this buzz in the past has led to success, like with 300. But the end product is simply decent.In the near future there are psychic, who have been tested on my governments since the Second World War. The American have their on Division (much like The Company from Heroes), hunt them down and test them. They want to make them into weapons and even uses want to increase their powers. A young woman, Kira (Camilla Belle) is the first person to survive the inject that should do this and she ends up on the run. In Hong Kong is an expat Nick (Chris Evans). His father is killed by the Division, lead by Henry Carver (Djimon Hounsou), a top agent. He is not good at using his powers as a telekinetic (also known as a Movers). He ends up on the run from both the Division and the local Triads. One day a young girl Cassie (Dakota Fanning), a pre-cog, arrives to his flat. She said the two are meant to work together and they can find a suitcase filled with $6 Millions. Nick and Cassie quickly have to run from the Triads and the Division, and they end up running into Kira in Hong Kong. Nick and Cassie need to protect Kira, who could be the key to bringing down the company.The plot pretty much lifted from Heroes, particularly the elements about the Division, with a good load of X-Men thrown in. This is nothing new and the themes have been done better, mainly in comics and the Bryan Singer X-Men films. The ideas about Government testing on psychics could have been an interesting film, but that idea was over looked. As well the film is set in Hong Kong. Hong Kong is a nice city, I've been there and I recommend going, but I don't see why an American film needed to be set there. Push could have easily be set in America or Canada, or become a Hong Kong film with Hong Kong style action and storytelling. There were problems like a 13-year-old Western girl alone in Hong Kong surely would be noticed even without psychic powers. Also some of the names for psychic abilities were silly and childish, like sniffs. They were names that would have been used in an average cartoon series. There were also the standard clichés, like Cassie's mother taken by the Division and the background narration at the beginning of the film. I'm sure the people were making this film were thinking of a sequel when this was made.Some of the acting is okay, Dakota Fanning is pretty good as a teenage, punky type character, and Djimon Hounsou is normally good in films he stars in. But there are other performances which were sub-par. Camilla Belle is a weak actress, who only gets roles because of her looks. There was also Xiaolu Li who may look pretty, is a very bad actress in properly her first English speaking role. Dakota Fanning would have made a more interesting lead. Most of these types of stories rely on the theme on teenage alienation, and Fanning could have brought that to the forefront.Besides Fanning's performance, the best thing about this film is the action. It was well directed by Paul McGuigan who uses some stylist tricks during the film. They are good fight scenes, like the fight in the restaurant and the final battle. Seeing that this was a film on a budget the CGI was really well done, better then some other blockbusters of 2009. However the film does drag at points, have ideas that don't make sense or hard to put into practice, and introduce characters like Maggie Siff's character who was no more then a Helena Bonham Carter lookalike. I think McGuigan had a stronger script he could have made a better film, with it fast paced and have more action and less clichés.If you enjoy superhero films then you may enjoy some elements of Push. 3 out 5. There are worst films then Push.
British fiction has often looked at what would happen in a dystopian future, from Mary Shelley's The Last Man, to George Orwell's 1984, to Anthony Burgress' A Clockwork Orange which lead to Stanley Kubrick's masterpiece. Even a famous British crime writer J.D. James had a crack at it, with the excellent Alfonso Cuaron, given us one of the best films of 2006.In the year 2027 society is on it's knee. They had been no children born for 18 years and many country have pretty much collapsed. Britain has become a police state, and all illegal immigrants are forced into camps. They are terrorist groups on all sides attacking people for their cause, including the Fishes, a group who campaign to protect immigrants. The world is also suffering collective grief after the death of the world's youngest person. Theo (Clive Owen), is a weary man, who doesn't see much point in life now that the human race is need its end. He is a alcoholic, and just lives day to day. His only joy is life is spending time with his old friend Jasper (Michael Caine). But Theo is thrown into events when his ex-partner Julian (Julianne Moore) asks for a favour, to get travel documents for a person. He agrees to help and ends up joining the Fishes, where he meets Kee (Claire-Hope Ashitey), the first woman to become pregnant in 18 years. Theo ends up being the only person who can help with betrayal from the Fishes, and being hunted by the police. He had to get Kee to the last hope of humanity, the Human Project and get to the south coast of England.I personally love dystopic fiction, whether it's top-down, government led like in 1984 or ground level with society collapsing, like in A Clockwork Orange. Children of Men shows both at the same time. I love the themes that the film looks at; from what some people will do in a world that could no longer continue, to the religious ideas of hope that Kee and her baby represents (that to me is the most important aspect of the film): Kee is the Virgin Mary. There are other issues of bad government, the fear of terrorism, the overreaction it causes e.g. the Patriotic Act and the use of immigration as a scapegoat. Cuaron is a truly great filmmaker, from making a good road movie Y tu mamá también, to the best of the Harry Potter films, the Prisoner of Azkaban, and then Children of Men, which was a Oscar worthy film. He shows a truly bleak world, his direction for this film was perfect. He uses a lot of tracking shots, and giving the film an earthy documentary felt. The camera keeps moving and the there are few cuts. That a great feature of the film. One of my favourite scenes in film is the war scene with the camera just following Theo throughout it. Cuaron and his Director of Photography, Emmanuel Lubezki do fantastic work and the film should have won the Oscar for best cinematography. It is a gritty world, with a lot of violence, and its great to see a more realistic world of violence, much like what Steven Spielberg did in Saving Private Ryan. I personally would like to see Alfonso Cuaron direct the next Bond film.The screenplay for the film is great. It has both an excellent chase plot, mixed with a complex social and political background. It combines the two well, and should have also won an Oscar for best Screenplay, and a great example of writing.There is a great cast. Clive Owen is in top form, with one of his best performances in his character. His character grows, and is very much like Winston Smith, a weary man who hates the system, but still works in the government, but is thrown into action. Chiwetel Ejiofor also offers a top performance, and I hope he gets bigger roles in films. Julianne Moore, an excellent actress also does well in her role, and the same goes to Claire-Hope Ashitey and the actors in the smaller roles.An essential film for cinema lovers.
I would love to become a film writer/director, but I often suffer self-doubts on whether I can write anything good or come up with a good idea. Weirdly Little Fockers gives me hope because I know that least I try hard with an idea and do not settle for less like the writers of Little Fockers.Little Fockers is set five years after the events of Meet the Fockers. Greg (Ben Stiller) and Pam (Teri Polo) are happily married and have five year old twins, Sam (Daisy Tahan) and Henry (Colin Baiocchi). But after Jack (Robert De Niro) has a heart attack, he decides that that Byrnes family needs a new patriarch: Greg is the only man available for the job. Jack makes Greg perform tasks to prove him, by getting his kids into a good school and make himself financially secure. To do that Greg moonlights to promote a new Viagra drug for heart patients after being recruited by sexy pharmaceutical representative Andi Garcia (Jessica Alba). But there is distrust because of her good looks.Now I confess that I am not a big fan of the 'Meet the Parents' series and the only reason I went to see it with people was because there were no good screening times for Tron Legacy or The Way Back. I had low exceptions and Little Fockers met them. Little Fockers follows the same formula of accidents and misunderstandings, with Greg and Jack constantly fighting and mistrust: surely wouldn't men have learn by now, they are meant to smart. Most of the humour is juvenile, mostly farting related. Fine for young kids, but at the same time there are a lot of sex jokes which takes away the family audience. This type of comedy and this series is stale: it is another example of a film franchise becoming too successful for its own good.Little Fockers was directed by Paul Weitz, the less talented brother of Chris Weitz (the director of The Golden Compass and New Moon). It was obviously with his workman like direction and a lack of care in about the script and the performances that he made this film just for the money: well there is a recession. There was nothing inventive about this film.Performance wise there isn't much to say, all the regular actors do their usual routine. This is one of Stiller's worst film, he needs to make more films like Tropic Thunder and I do wonder if Robert De Niro made a deal with the devil, he could star in films like the Godfather Part 2 and Raging Bull, but in the later had to make this rubbish. I hope Martin Scorsese comes in and saves his career. Owen Wilson was on auto-pilot and Jessica Alba was in the film just because of her looks. Surely Alba should get a better agent because all she does is strip off in her films (as a man I enjoy it, but as an enlightened person there has got to be more to her then her body).Basically the only highlight of the film was the use of a smart child for some of the comedy: smart children are often more funny then dumb children in films.
Zulu is an undeniable classic. It is based on the battle of Rorke's Drift in 1879 when 96 British soldiers had to defend themselves against a massive force of 4,000 Zulu warriors. This film shows the bravery of the British soldiers who fought in the battle, showing how tough it would have been. The film did focus on the British soldiers, but did treat the Zulus with respect, showing them to be brave, excellent fighters and were not portrayed as evil.The film has some fine actors who give very good performances. Stanley Baker is very good as Lieutenant John Chard and Michael Caine is good as Lieutenant Gonville Bromhead, and it still gets me that he speaks with a posh accent.Zulu is epic in it portrayal of war, a large number of extras were used. This added to sense of what the Zulu war would have been like. It was gritty when it battle became a hand-to-hand fight and destruction was happening. The Zulus were shown to be tactically knowledgeable and even started to get hold of modern weapons.The film also has some good scenes not involving the war, including the Zulu warriors and British soldiers singing before an attack by the Zulus, the singing by the Zulus at the end of the battle, the roll-call at the end of the battle and showing the soldiers who earned Victoria Crosses.I admit that the film is not 100% accuracy, the Zulus did not honest the British after the battle, but Britain and the Zulu did respect each other's bravery. British soldiers did also execute Zulu warriors after the battle, which was admitted from the film because it would not have been such a romantic story if they shown that. Zulu however is a more accuracy then many American films about war, such as the Patriot, Pearl Harbour and U-571. Zulu is good example of British film-making and I would love to a modern British war film.
2001: A Space Odyssey is a classic sci-fi film, an example of Stanley Kubrick's genius as a director. I admit I didn't like it as much as other Kubrick films at first, but another viewing made me see what a brilliant film it was.The film is very complex and tackles a number of themes, such as science and space travel, evolution, religion, discovery, the future of computing and alien life-forms. I personally think it is about man's yearning for discovery and wanting to improve themselves.The film starts off at the dawn of man we look at a small of apes struggling to survive. They are forced away from their waterhole and were on the brink. It was only when the apes use bones as tools that the they are able to reclaim there waterhole, but become murderous and warlike. After that the film skips forward to the future and we see that man has been very advance, starting to make large space bases and colonising the moon. A team of scientist discovery a strange black monolith on the moon and start to study it. It is then skips future another 18 months and the film focuses on a mission to Jupiter and we look at two astronauts, Frank and Dave, and the computer HAL. The mission seems to be going smoothly enough until HAL makes an error and the crew decides to disconnect him. HAL however knows what they plan to do and takes drastic action to stop this, including murder. Its was Dave that was only able to stop him. After this we knew see Dave go through a wormhole around Jupiter and the film becomes very surreal.This film is multi layered and many fans of this film have discussed what it means. I have given my opinion earlier. This film gets the science right and from a technical viewpoint, very impressive. The music is classical and very memorially and fitting for this film. There are also a lot of memorially scenes which have been homaged and parody a number of times. I personally really like the scene when Dave is disconnecting HAL and HAL is pleading for his life.This is a film that needs to be watched a number of times.
In 2009 Woody Harrelson and Oren Moverman worked together on the film The Messenger which earned Harrelson an Oscar nomination, so it was understandable that the two wanted to worked with each other again. They decided their follow up film was Rampart, another LA set cop film by James Ellroy, the writer of LA Confidential and Street Kings.Dave "Date Rape" Brown (Harrelson) is a corrupt officer in the LAPD: he is a racist, a sexist and a womaniser and is willing to beat offenders. But he gets results. He also lives with his two ex-wives who are sisters and has a daughter each with them. But one day Dave is filmed brutally beating a man and his world comes clashing down as he is investigated, sued, becomes paranoid and ends up losing his family.It is clear that Ellroy and Moverman wanted to make character piece and not a typical corrupt cop film: but what we ended up with is an unfocused mess. Moverman did not know what area of the film he wanted to have his cake and eat it but ended up with moving. The first 30 minutes is decent enough showing how Dave operates, his personal situation and his character before the action that leads to his downfall but after that is when the film goes downhill very quickly. It was a pretty dull affair which is a popular consensus and it was only Harrelson's excellent performance that made the film watchable.Moverman was clearly influenced by Paul Greengrass' style of direction, using a lot of hand held cameras and loads of zooms and panning. It looked amateurish at times and others just really bad. The biggest example is during a legal meeting, featuring a Steve Buscemi cameo where the camera keeps panning from left to right for no good reason: just keep the camera still.There was the potential to make a better film, a film looking at how Dave operates, what actions does, whether he gets result, why he takes these actions, why is he racist, etc, a look at this rogue unit of the police, the investigation and legal action against Dave and this Rampart scandal which many people would not know much about (especially outside the USA). Even the personal story could have been better handled, especially considering the unusual family situation Dave has.There is a hateful tone throughout. Dave is a hateful character but there is a nasty undercurrent, from making Linda the lawyer (Robin Wright) being only issued in performing fellatio, his older daughter (Brie Larson) making a collage which prominently has the "C" and just the general environment and view of point the film presents. Dave is a sexist, but the view of women the film presents is no better.Rampart is a film that is wasted potential. It could and should have been better. How it got a strong critical reaction is a mystery. Ellroy has written better films about corrupt cops in LA Confidential and Street Kings and the TV show The Shield has made a much better attempt at exploring similar issues.
Gremlins is considered a classic film from the 80s with fans from many generations and loved for its violence and humour and helped forced the creation of the PG-13 rating in America. But it a film that has not aged as well as some people think it has, having a jarring tone between the cutey humour to the dark humour and horror elements. For a film of the time it had great special effects, using animatronics and stop-motion animation and the sequence when we see the Gremlins get killed is gory fun (it was the best in the film). But Gremlins was not funny enough, either relying on slapstick and physical humour to misjudged dark comedy which made me more concerned about how many people died or were injured. The acting from everyone was perfectly fine and Joe Dante did direct at a brisk pace, Gizmo was a cute creation and there is certainly a message against exotic pet ownership, but I could not love it like some other people do.
London to Brighton is a grim crime film that rolls back the glamorisation of gangsters in Guy Ritchie film and prostitution in Secret Diaries of a Call Girl.The focus of London to Brighton is on Joanna (Georgia Groome) an 12-year-old runaway and Kelly (Lorraine Stanley), a prostitute. Both are on the run after killing a gangster and his son Stuart (Sam Spruell) is out for revenge. Joanna and Kelly run off to Brighton and Stuart demands that their pimp Derek (Johnny Harris) find them and contact him as soon as he does. Whilst in Brighton Joanna gets a chance to be child again but Kelly has to raise money and does it the only way she can, selling herself. As well Joanna and Kelly becomes stronger as the film continues.This film looks at dark themes such as prostitution and paedophilia. The film was well handled by the first time writer/director Paul Andrew Williams. He shows that he has talent and a bright future ahead of him. The acting was of a high standard especially from Georgia Groome who also has a promising career ahead of her. In the film there are characters that you actually care about and you want to know what happens to them. There was a subtle use of music and the direction was strong, using the techniques of social realism. The only criticism is that I think is that I more could been found out about Kelly's and Derek's pasts.London to Brighton is a grim view, but a worthy film.
Unlike most people who think Curse of the Black Pearl was the best of the Pirates' series, I personally prefer Dead Man's Chest.Dead Man's Chest starts with Will (Orlando Bloom) and Elizabeth (Keira Knightley) getting arrested by the evil Lord Becket (Tom Hollander) for helping Jack Sparrow (Johnny Depp) escape. Becket makes a deal, if Will finds Jack then he would pardon them and more importantly, Jack's compass. Jack is on his own mission when Davy Jones (Bill Nighy) wants to recall Jack's debt for raising the Black Pearl. Here Jack has to run to land before having to play everyone involved against for him to get his own way and save his skin. A sub-plot of the film is Will finding that his father (Stellan Skarsgård) is alive, working for Davy Jones. Bootstrap Bill sets out to do all he can to protect his son.I will get the problems out the way first. The plot is too convoluted and mixed up. It can lead to confusion and loosing interest. The convoluted plot also leads to the film being too long and a number of faux endings. Finally Orlando Bloom can't act (except in Lord of the Rings). Now to the positives. The action is excellent and you get a lot of sword fights and flint-lock gun fights. An excellent mix of action and comedy is the free way sword fight on the bench. There is comedy which people should enjoy. Johnny Depp is very good in the film, but Bill Nighy does steal the show. Nighy is alway excellent, being the best performer in Love Actually and very good in Shaun of the Dead, Hot Fuzz, Guest House Paradiso etc... Nighy made a brilliant villain. The special effects are amazing, some of best put to film and I expect most of the people involved will not struggle to find work. Another element I enjoyed was the sexual tension between Jack and Elizabeth throughout the film and how she uses it as a weapon against him. I would have like to see more of that.It's an enjoyable enough film.
...which is strange seeing it was directed by a Brit. Lucky Number Slevin is much like a Guy Ritchie, having both his strengths and weaknesses.Slevin Kelevra (Josh Hartnett) is an unlucky man; he ends up staying in his friend's apartment when his identity is mistaken. He is plunged into the world of gangsterism, with two rival gangsters believing he has debts to pay. One, The Boss (Morgan Freeman) is willing to clear the debt, if Slevin can kill the Fairy (Christopher Maxwell Kramer), the son of his rival. The other gangster, The Rabbi (Ben Kingsley) orders that Slevin pay back a debt of $33,000. Slevin also has to battle the threat of an ruthless assassin, Smith/Mr. Goodkat (Bruce Willis): the assassin who does the job that no else wants. Slevin's only ally in his mission is his friend's neighbour Lindsey (the lovely Lucy Liu). She helps him investigate, but doesn't want him to loose his moral compass.Paul McGuigan offers a very stylist form of direction, with a lot of directorial tricks, and impressive visuals. McGuigan shows that he can direct an action sequence, and keeps the film going at a fast pace, not allowing the audience too much time to thing. McGuigan also has a good cast of experienced actors, Morgan Freeman, Ben Kingsley and Bruce Willis all offer good performances, particularly Freeman. Stanley Tucci also offers a decent performance in his small role, and McGuigan gets out better performance from Josh Hartnett, who is often just a bland pretty boy, and Lucy Liu, who offers a quirky, youngish performance.The problem with the film is the script by Jason Smilovic. He is clearly a man who thinks he is more clever then he really is. He gives the audience an overly complex plot which he didn't need to and philosophy conversations that were not wanted or needed. By making the film with a more convoluted plot and storyline Smilovic ends up leaving his script full of holes. His story has some similarities to Lock Stock and Two Smoking Barrels, where a man has to pay a large debt and have to pay back some vicious gangsters in a short space of time. He also shares Guy Ritchie problem of putting too much in a film, when less is more. That's what happened in most of Ritchie's mockery gangster film. The tone and style of the film was also similar to Smokin' Aces, a not a good film at all. But luckily this was a witty film, not taking itself too seriously.Overall, a 3 out of 5.
There have been many fictionalised film accounts of historical figures lately. Last year we learned "the truth" about William Shakespeare in Anonymous and we will soon see Abraham Lincoln battle vampires in Abraham Lincoln: Vampire Hunter. Now we have the fun of John Cusack hamming it up as Edgar Allen Poe in the Gothic mystery The Raven.In 1849, Poe is a penniless writer who enjoys a drink. He is unable to pay his bar tab and struggling to even get published in the Baltimore Patriot. He is also about to be engaged to the very beautiful Emily (Alice Eve) against her father's (Brendan Gleeson) wishes.Then murder most foul stalks the streets of Baltimore when a killer starts using Poe's stories as inspiration. A young police detective, Inspector Emmett Fields (Luke Evans), is in charge of the investigation and recruits Poe's help. But the stakes are upped when the killer kidnaps Emily and demands that Poe write about his murders if he wants to save Emily's life.The Raven is the first film to be made by James McTeigue without the Wachowski Brothers. He showed promise with V for Vendetta but dipped when he directed reshoots for The Invasion as well as the action film Ninja Assassin. With The Raven, McTeigue attempts a Tim Burton-style Gothic horror mystery within a historical framework, but it comes off more as a cross between the Hughes Brothers' adaptation of From Hell, Guy Ritchie's Sherlock Holmes and the Doctor Who episode "The Unicorn and the Wasp." McTeigue shows signs of an action-film hangover; CGI bullets fly in air, CGI blood splatters in your face and the killer in his cloak and hat looks very much like V and is capable of extraordinary physical feats. He does give us a visually striking film that is rich in a period detail with a dark look throughout. The Raven is a very fast-paced film that does not allow boredom to settle in, but it is too stylised for its own good.As a story, The Raven could easily have been set in the modern day  it nothing from its 19th Century setting. It could have easily have been a movie about a crime novelist who is jaded or struggling for inspiration and a serial killer who uses his/her stories to conduct crimes. That is just a possibility. The idea of using Poe and his poems is more a way of giving the movie more legitimacy and they are recognisable stories, even to people who have not read them.Cusack is entertainingly bad in The Raven, giving us an over-the-top, Nicolas Cage-esque performance. He is wonderfully miscast as Poe, a man who is meant to be grief-stricken, confrontational and a romantic. He's also intelligent with Sherlock Holmes levels of deduction. He has little chemistry with Eve and Evans was his opposite, giving a very understated performance. Generally the whole movie was miscast.There are moments of unintentional comedy in the movie as well. Sometimes it is from Cusack yelling in full literary speaking mode, other times it's the police's willingness to use violence or the killer's near superhuman abilities. These moments, topped with Cusack's performance, make The Raven surprisingly entertaining in a way that the filmmakers likely did not attend.It is obvious that McTeigue and the writers were trying to make their own version of Sleepy Hollow, but it ended coming across more like From Hell. It is not a terrible movie, but it's at least watchable  more of a noble failure then anything else.Please visit www.playeraffinity.com
The people at Pixar are geniuses, that is a fact considering the films there have made: the Toy Story series, Finding Nemo, Monsters Inc., The Incredibles, Ratatouille and Up. WALL-E can join them and is one of the best amongst that list of excellent films. Pixar have a real understanding of film, know that people crave a strong story and characters that we can love. They are skilled at making films for adults and children without the need to parody or reference films and pop-culture for adults.Humanity has left Earth 700 years ago. The planet has become nothing but a wasteland after years of over-consummation and waste. Only one robot is left, WALL-E (Ben Burtt), who is cleaning up the mess in New York. After years alone he has developed a personality, he collects items of interest, his only friend is a cockroach and he continually watches the musical Hello Dolly. He longs to hold his hand with someone else. It is a sad existence. But one day another robot lands on Earth, EVE (Elissa Knight), a slick powerful robot on a mission to find plant life. After initial hostiles the two becomes and when EVE discovers that WALL-E has a plant the two are sent to the spaceship Axiom. Since humans have been in space for 700 years their bone have weaken and become morbidly obese, becoming more lazy and stupid. When the captain (Jeff Garlin) learns of this he gets excited about prospect that humans can return to Earth: but there is a conspiracy in the ship's programming to keep everyone in space. It's up to our heroes to ensure that humans return to where they rightfully belong.The writer/director Andrew Stanton knew straight away that focus of the film had to be one the film had to be on the title character. WALL-E is just such a lovable character whom loneliness which drives his need for companionship. Along with EVE Stanton was able to establish a strong relationship between the two robots with very little dialogue and a lot of facial expressions. The nature of their relationship changes throughout the film and it is basically a wonderful love story with two great characters. Stanton also creates some wonderful character designs, with WALL-E being a crude robot, whilst EVE is a really futuristic robot, with a perfectly simple and elegant look. Stanton is also ambitious, showing Earth to be dark and dirty with the blocks of rubbish joining the New York skyline to the bright, artificial world of Axiom where it is a false paradise, seeing the negative affects on the people. Stanton did also use 2001: A Space Odyssey and Alien as an influence, because of the film's grand scale, broad, epic designs, music and the fact that the computer has alternative programming. But he keeps the film fresh. Stanton too is very cleaver with small subtle details, like all the rubbish on the floor telling how this situation came about.There is a lot of humour, mostly involving slapstick, visual jokes and jokes relying on WALL-E misunderstandings. But this is not a comedy film, WALL-E is a drama and an adventure in a sci-fi context. You get to feel for the characters and at times it is a little sad. But overall it is a touching bit of entertainment for all the family.WALL-E is the Pixar film that is most open to interruption. I'm not saying other Pixar film do not have deeper meanings, it's just that WALL-E has a lot in it. There is of course the theme of environmentalism and the problems that are caused by waste and the overfill of landfills. It's an important theme that I can easily agree with. There is also other themes: one major theme is humans' over reliant on machines and that they need to do more for themselves and the fact the people have become ignorant of the world around them and loosing basic general knowledge. It is pretty thoughtful for a family film.
We Need to Talk About Kevin is certainly a movie that will be every  parent and would-be parent's worst nightmare. This movie gained a lot  of praise at the Cannes Film Festival and attempts to explore the  themes of society, parenting and psychology.  Eva Khachaturian (Tilda Swinton) is a middle-aged mother hated by her  community and struggling with the aftermath of a tragedy. Her  sociopathic teenage son, Kevin (Ezra Miller), has committed a school  massacre and she has to deal with the results of the sins of her child  and explore how Kevin turned out this way in a dual narrative.  After being unable to make her version of The Lovely Bones, Lynne  Ramsey turned to adapting this Lionel Shriver novel instead. She  delivers a haunting, slow-moving film that looks at the personal and  social impact of the tragedy through one person's eyes as well looking  at the struggles of raising a troubled child. Ramsey made sure there  was a grim, somber tone and kept a minimalist view of the world, yet  still adds her own visual flair with intense, slow close ups and red  imagery throughout the film to symbolise blood on Eva's hands.  There is a deliberately disjointed narrative throughout the movie,  cutting from the present to the past as we examine Eva's inability to  bond with her son. Ramsey took the bold step to avoid showing any of  the actual massacre and most violence is committed off screen. We do  not need to see it to understand its impact on people. Nor did we see  Kevin's preparations for the massacre: We Need to Talk About Kevin is  Eva's story, not Kevin's.  But there is a major problem with Ramsay's approach to the story: she  seems to ignore the entire concept of nature vs. nurture. Eva being  portrayed as a bad mother is outweighed by the way Kevin is shown as  practically the product of Satan's loins. Throughout the film, Kevin is  always pushing his mother's buttons and made out to be evil from the  day he is born. There is no subtlety in his portrayal, even with basic  things like reaction shots. We Need to Talk About Kevin should have  been more ambiguous, because the whole point of the film is to raise a  debate. The audience is not meant to have a clear answer.  Swinton's performance was highly praised and she is worthy of an Oscar  nomination as her character Eva, who starts off both as a woman at a  real low end and her struggles with a child she does not want. She is a  disaster of a mum to Kevin as a young child, a child who tests her  patience. Swinton was able to bring real depth to her character. When  she does make the effort, the damage is already done. Throughout the  movie, Swinton plays a tragic and lonely figure who is isolated in some  form, a character who is a shell of her former self.  Kevin is strongly played by two actors: Jasper Newell plays Kevin as a  little brat, pushing his mother with his behaviour and playing Eva and  his father (John C. Reilly) against each other. As a teenager, Erza  Miller portrays Kevin with a sociopathic and nihilist outlook. He has a  sharp mind, but enjoys inflicting pain on others, including his little  sister (wonderfully played by the young Ashley Gerasimovich). He is a  character who believes in nothing and takes a destructive path as a  sinister air is always around him.  Reilly plays Franklin as a normal suburban dad, someone who wants to do  the right thing for his children. It was a wonderfully natural  performance of a man who just sees Kevin's behaviour as being typically  boyish. He is very deserving of a Best Supporting Actor nod for such a  believable performance.  There is a permanent, chilling sense throughout the film thanks  Ramsay's low key direction and the power of the performance. This is a  film that should stick in your head, but We Need to Talk About Kevin  should not have been so clear-cut.
There is Bond, there is Bourne and there is Ethan Hunt: now Tom Clancy's Jack Ryan wants to join the ranks of big espionage franchises and Paramount have made a origin story and a reboot to the series and is the first film not to be based on Clancy's novels.In 2001 Jack Ryan (Chris Pine) is an American PHD student at the London School of Economics when 9/11 happens. He quits his studies to join the US Marine and serves in Afghanistan but is wounded whilst on duty. Ryan ends up getting recruited into the CIA by Thomas Harper (Kevin Costner), making him an analyst and work undercover at Wall Street, getting him to find any funding of terrorism in the markets. In the present day Ryan discovers a series of trades by a Russian client and suspects a Russian Oligarch with a vendetta against the Americans, Viktor Cherevin (Kenneth Branagh) is planning a wipeout of the American economy and force a Second Great Depression.Jack Ryan: Shadow Recruit is a fast paced, but very average thriller. There a strong espionage skullduggery moments like when Ryan having to call the CIA after killing an assassin and Ryan infiltrating an office with the support of a CIA support in a race against time. The plot is loosely similar to Tom Clancy's novel where a vengeful Japanese tycoon also forces an economic clash in the United States: but the film is more believable as the novel's plot is America and Japan go to war with each other in the mid-90s.The let down for Jack Ryan: Shadow Recruit is the action. It is disappointing, using shaking cam and is cut way too quickly. The best action sequence is the first when Ryan has to fight off an assassin and being his forced into a battle for survival for him. You saw the struggle on Ryan's face but the fight ends up talking place in a bathroom and it ended up reminding me of the beginning of Casino Royale to the point of plagiarism.Jack Ryan: Shadow Recruit does have a good cast. Branagh and Costner were both the strongest performers as the villain and the mentor roles respectively. Branagh does a convincing job portraying menace whilst giving a strong Russian accent. Costner who grounded and believable as Harper, supporting, guarding yet manipulating Ryan into becoming a field agent.Pine is solid in the lead role and he does show his range as we see the pain on the face when he kills, something he thought he would never have to do. Pine also gets a moment to be his trademark jerk persona and he is convincing in the action despite how poorly it was done.Knightley did provide a strong American accent and she was a likable presence throughout the film: but she was in the film to be the damsel in distress.Jack Ryan: Shadow Recruit is a perfectly serviceable thriller that is watchable, but it is not particularly memorial film as it attempts to do for the Jack Ryan what Casino Royale did for Bond.
What Dreams May Come is often described a noble failure, a film that was ambitious and made with good intention but is ultimately faulted. That is a fail assessment of this supernatural film.Chris Nielsen (Robin Williams) and Annie (Annabella Sciorra) are a couple who meet in the lakes of Switzerland and a fall instantly in love. Over the course of their lives they have two children but end dying a car crash. Four years later Chris also dies in a car crash and ends up with heaven in his own perfect world and private universe with guide of a spirit called Albert (Cuba Gooding Jr.). As Chris explores this world Annie falls into a deep depression on Earth and kills herself. As a suicide Annie is sent to spend an eternity in Hell and unwilling to accept this Chris journeys to depths of Hell to find her.It is clear there was a lot of ambition put into this film. The most obvious is the visuals, using top of the range CGI for the time, used to great effect to bring to live Chris' version of Heaven. It is clear where Peter Jackson got some of his visual ideas for his adaptation The Lovely Bones as both Chris' Heaven and Susie Salmon's Heaven look very similar and some the visuals and foreshadowing that most films employ. The special effects are even more impressive when you see the scale of the worlds created and that it was special effects used for an art house film.Screenwriter Ronald Bass does attempt to bring in a lot of ideas to the film. He combines different religious ideas and beliefs of the afterlife, of Judo-Christian beliefs of heaven and hell, but also combining it with the idea of redemption, atonement and forgiveness in the afterlife, that people are equal in death. People are also able to be reincarnated, so having either religious beliefs in the mix and God is kept as a distance. Added to this are metaphysical issues about the nature of existence, existing, what happens to people when their die and how they can control and alter the world around them and physical appearance. There is even the idea of person's mental state in the afterlife and how it needs to be in tacked.At its heart What Dreams May Come is a love story, a romance about love in the afterlife and see what a man is willing to do for the woman he loves. Chris embarks on a Dante Inferno's type quest of going into hell to save the person he loves the most. But What Dreams May Come suffers from a being overly sentimental, from the story, the acting and the musical score. This is a film that wanted to tug at our heartstrings as Chris and Annie suffer and when Chris reunites with his children. Ward wanted to milk every moment of emotion he could and unfortunately got the worst side of Williams as a serious actor. What Dreams May Come is an interesting enough film and is does excellent job at showing a Heaven, a task that filmmakers find very difficult to do. It was juxtaposed to creepy screens of Hell, with Hell using practical sets and effects and CGI effects to showcase Heaven. The story is simple but works as a love story in a supernatural setting.Some personal recommendations if you enjoy this film are The Sixth Sense, Inception, The Matrix and The Lovely Bones (both the book and the film).
In 1999 an action film known as the Matrix became a surprise hit, written and directed by two unknowns, the Wachowski Brothers, and except for Keanu Reeves, had no major stars. The Matrix became a hit because it was a great action film, but also because it had a great plot and deep message about philosophy and reality (I personally recommend reading 1984 by George Orwell to get an idea about it). The film brought extra fame to Keanu Reeves, Laurence Fishborne and Hugo Weaving, all staring in excellent films and the Wachowskis could could any project they wanted. The Wachowskis claimed that the Matrix was always meant to be a trilogy, and after the success of first film, shot The Matrix Reloaded and Matrix Revolutions back-to-back, the first time I think it ever been done.Set six months after the first film, the machines were preparing for the invasion of the last human city, Zion, by drilling through the Earth. The commanders of the city are obviously worried about the upcoming battle and plan to have every ship available to fight. But some elements of the human population, mainly people who have been from the Matrix think that humanity's only hope comes from destroy the Matrix, freeing the trapped human and prevent the machines from having a power source. This now seems possible with Neo (Keanu Reeves) being the one. To do this Neo, Morpheus (Laurence Fishbourne) and Trinity (Carrie-Anne Moss) need to free the Keymarker (Randall Duk Kim) from the exiles, powerful rogue programs that have gone into hiding from the Agents. The Keymarker is the only ally available to the humans who can give them access to the source of the Matrix and thereby the heart of the machines' program. The humans also have to battle a reborn Agent Smith (Hugo Weaving), who is even more powerful then before, with the ability to make copies of himself. The humans has to battle with the agents themselves. But Neo is also suffering, having nightmares of Trinity being killed. He doesn't want her involved in the battle in case she is killed.The best thing about the Matrix Reloaded is the action scenes, some of the best ever filmed, with excellent martial arts sequence. Particular fights of note are the fight between Neo and Seraph (Collin Chou), the fight between Neo and the Smiths, Neo and the exiles and the Freeway sequence. But that is the only really go thing about the Matrix Reloaded. The plot is confusing and all over the place; even with the philosophical message in the Matrix, it was still pretty easy to follow. They are too many sub-plots and many are left unsolved. There is no focus and a Matrix sequel should have been so much more. The philosophical message of the film is more forced in this film, and it's not easy to believe the message compared to the first film. The message is mostly about fate and choice and the fact machines and humans need each other. I can imagine pretentious people saying I understand this and that means I'm cleaver. You're not, you just think you are clever. The dialogue is at times weak, I excepted better from the film. Also Keanu Reeves shows his talent of being like a tree. At least Fishboure and Weaving are still good.The Matrix Reloaded is not a good film, but the action scene are worthy, just ignore the lack of plot. Avoid The Matrix Revolutions, it is a massive let down.
Who would have thought back in 2001 that The Fast and the Furious would somehow because a movie series that would last to six movies with a seventh on the way? Even more surprising the Fast and Furious series has become of the premier action series and being one of Universal Studios' biggest cashcows.After the Rio heist all of Dom Toretto (Vin Diesel) and his crew have gone their separate ways and now multi-millionaires. But despite longing for a quiet life they are brought back into action when Diplomatic Security Service Agent Luke Hobbs (Dwayne 'The Rock' Johnson) gets the crew to help him stop a former British SAS officer turned mercenary Owen Shaw (Luke Shaw) who has been target military convoys in Europe to make a tech bomb. Hobbs has a big incentive for Toretto to go back into action by having proof his girlfriend and long-time love Letty Ortiz (Michelle Rodriguez) is still alive and working for Shaw. With the crew in London car chases and fighting eschews.The appeal of The Fast and Furious films since Justin Lin has taken over the direction of the series has been his championing of practical effects. Whilst there is some CGI (which isn't particularly good) Fast 6 is still a feat of stunt work, fight sequences and in camera effects. Lin does know how to direct an action sequences, giving us an excellent car chase in London, the tank chase in its full ridiculousness and the final sequence involving a military transport plane (even if it takes place on the world's longest runway). Gina Carano and Joe Taslim from Haywire and The Raid were both added to the cast, bringing their fighting talents to the series and they are fine additions. Taslim has an excellent fight with Tyrese Gibson and Sung Kang in Waterloo Station (though it wasn't really filmed in Waterloo Station). I was disappointed by the fight between Carano and Rodriguez but that is because of the fight was shown in the trailers and it was intercut to much with the Taslim fight.Fast and Furious 6 has a massive cast with some members getting more attention then others. The big winners were Diesel and Johnson; both are massive screen presence with charisma and have the action chops. Johnson steals the shows once again, being a mass of muscle with one-liners and plenty of action ability: it is impressive the casting director was able to find a man bigger then The Rock so the pair could fight. Walker is his usual bland self and Joanna Bowster gets the shaft again, this time holding the baby. Carano is a woman of action and little words and Gibson is the comic relief to the point he was a bit annoying.A problem with the series has been the villains have been lacklustre. Evans is a man who is servable in the role and he is the best villain so far simply because he does feel more of a threat because he is a man of action himself, getting involved in the frontline, being a driver and a skilled martial artist: it is better then a middle aged crime lord with a load of heavies. But Fast 7 will have a better a villain with the post credit scene setting up the sequel.Whilst the action seemed like a step up from the Fast Five, the story is so much sillier. The Fast and Furious series has never been know for being strong storytelling but at least with Fast Five it felt a believable that these characters would attempt a massive heist, but Fast and Furious 6 was much more of a stretch just to reunite the team and get them working with Hobbs who has quickly become a fans favourite. The crew has shown to be expert investigators suddenly. We have American characters going round the more seedy side of London; they would be very noticeable very quickly. And as a Brit I do take it personally when the film used outdated stereotypes of British people like the snotty salesman.Like Fast Five, Fast and Furious 6 is long and baggy, but this problem felt more prominent as the film tried to give anyone a moment to shine and there were sequences that could have been cut. One example is when O'Conner goes undercover in a prison in Los Angeles which was just a plot cul-de-sac and reference more to Fast and Furious (which was a forgettable entry). It needed a re-write to just tighten thinks up because the running time could have been under two hours. Fast and Furious 6 is surprising convoluted for what is supposed to be a simple action flick.Funs of the series with be very satisfied with the sixth entry and on an action level it is solid. It is good to see practical effects in an action film. But it mindless and silly and it unlikely to appeal to detectors. Still the seventh film should be interesting just because of the villain.
Pierce Brosnan was a very good James Bond in my opinion. He made Goldeneye, Tomorrow Never Dies and The World is not Enough were all good films in the Bond franchise. However Die Another Day was a weak film in comparison and forced the Bond franchise back to his roots, make the realist and excellent Casino Royale.Die Another Day starts out very promisingly. Bond is sent on a mission to North Korea to assassinate a sadist colonel. He gets found out and ends up fighting a whole army base before getting caught and tortured for eighteen months. It had real life geo-political situation and Bond is show to be a little more real and seen as a tough nut for not giving in during the torture. When Bond is release he was exchanged for a North Korean terrorist Zao (Rick Yune, the only other thing I know he done was a couple of episodes of Alias). Bond finds out that M exchanged him because she thought along with the American that he had broke was was giving out information and he loses his license to kill. He ends up having to escape from a British warship and go to Hong Kong before going off to Cuba to find Zao. It was went Bond going to Cuba when the find starts going downhill.This Bond film has a number of problems. Firstly the plot was poor, it was similar to Moonraker which was one of the worst Bond films. The North Korean hardliners, using a western agent to make a giant laser in space so that it can destroy the mines on the 38th Parallel and allow North Korea to invade the south. The plot was too sci-fi for a Bond film and that was what made Moonraker a weak film. They were other sci-fi, unrealistic aspect that also ruined the film: the DNA transplant and the invisible car which a number of critics have said nearly destroyed the Bond franchise. The director Lee Tamahori was a poor choice. He did Once Were Warriors, a film I want to see, a few Sopranos episodes, and that's it. He had made some weak action films afterwards: XXX2: State of the Union and Next. He was unable to whole to story together and did no get the most of his actors. The action was run in the mill and the CGI was weak. I believe Bond films should only use CGI when they have to, for example, showing a mission going to its target. Halle Berry was a poor choice as a Bond girl. She was too self-centred and making the film about her as well as Bond. Her character Jinx had a stupid name and she was meant to be the equal to Bond. The whole of Bond films that he is the best, no one is able to match him. Halle Berry also gave a poor performance and the only good film she had done since Die Another Day was X-Men 2. They was talk about they being a Jinx spin-off movie, but this was cancelled. If it was made that would have killed the Bond Franchise! Madonna also affected the film, given it a poor title song (I never really liked her music) and had a laughable cameo which was not needed. She has ambitions to be an actress, it just a shame she can't act. The filmmakers also had an anti-Bond type character, Gustav Graves. He was really Colonel Moon, the Korean army officer Bond was meant to kill. He was played by Toby Stephens who is a good actor, but I thought the anti-Bond type character didn't work and was done in Goldeneye. The film had a lot of product placement. They was Jaguar, Aston Martin, Panasonic, the list is long. I know it does happen in films and I accept it, but the audiences wants it to be reasonable. Finally the film relied too much on humour and self-referencing. Humour didn't work for Roger Moore's films in the long run and it is not going to work now! John Cleese as R was a poor choice because he type of humour doesn't fit with the type used in Bond films. Self-referencing was numerous, such as Bond's 20th watch, Bond loosing his License to Kill, Graves and the Union Jack parachute and Jinx coming out of the sea in bikini are some examples.The filmmakers were also worried about XXX starting Vin Diesel, believing that it was going to be a threat. XXX was a poor film and its sequel was a box-office bomb. There was talk that Vin Diesel was considered as a potential Bond which was laughable. The real threat to Bond was the Bourne Identity which brought spy thrillers into a more gritty realist world, not a far-fetched world like XXX.Its best not to watch this film because it would just ruin the Brosnan era of Bond. The only good thing about it was that it forced the filmmakers to bring in Paul Haggis as a scriptwriter, brought in Daniel Craig and make the excellent Casino Royale
Dystopian futures have always been a popular sub-genre of sci-fi. They are many novels that look at this idea of a future that is worst and often been used as a commentary of the society at the time. George Orwell did it with 1984, as a fear of totalitarian regimes like the Nazis and Stalinist Russia, to Aldous Huxley fear of society being controlled by the government and a fears capitalism and Marxism when he wrote Brave New World, and Yevgeny Zamyatin used We to criticise Bolshevikism, Anthony Burgess' used A Clockwork Orange has a number of themes from moral arguments, crime and law and order to small things like Alex listening to classical music as a comment about the Nazis and Fahrenheit 451 by Ray Bradley was a commentary about censorship, the media and keeping society ignorant. But Kurt Wimmer turns great ideas in these novels into a silly, MTV style action film.The world had gone through a devastating war, World War III. A new system of government has risen in a city state. Emotions are regulated through drugs and all books, art and music are banned. Giant TV screen keep running propaganda why this system of government and society exists. A resistance movement exists hiding all this contraband. They hide in the outer limits of city and the police often raid them, having bloody shoots out with them. The government have created a special order of men, the Grammaton Clerics who enforce the law and the best fighters available. One of the best is John Preston (Christian Bale), a man who is a skilled fighter and gunman and brutally enforces the law. But his eyes are opened after an number of events, his wife's arrest, his partner Partridge (Sean Bean) had been secretly started to feel emotions and he arrested Mary O'Brien (Emily Watson) who questions Preston's belief system. Preston starts to have doubts and dreams, and he stops taking his emotion-blocking drugs. Preston starts to feel emotions for the first time. His emotional awaking including falling in love and hiding evidence. He tries to contact the resistance, but his new partner Brandt (Taye Diggs) is hot on his trial.This film basically copy good ideas from dystopian fiction. Burning books and other cultural artifacts was used in Fahrenheit 451 which itself was influenced by Nazi actions, plus the wider assault of culture was a theme in 1984. The use of drugs to numb emotions and a wider assault on emotions are themes from Brave New World and We and was used in George Lucas' debut THX 1138. 1984 was raided for ideas, mainly the idea of constant surveillance used by a big TV screen spouting propaganda and use the fear of children turning against their parents. Equilibrium also shares a common theme with We, 1984 and Fahrenheit 451, an inner of the system (usually mid-ranking) turning against the government but don't know how to go about it. Some of these ideas can work in the film (they obviously work in those books), but Wimmer wanted to focus more on the action aspect of the film. Wimmer did have a good visual eye for some key scenes and did have some stylist moments. They were some good action sequences, the best one being when Preston first fights the polices after his emotional realisation. But other scenes (mainly at the end) were so over edited that it completely ruined the illusion. His script suffers from weak dialogue and clichés. Some themes are under used like Preston's son acting as a check against his father.Bale is of course an excellent actor, but the problem here was his character was meant to be emotionless, so make it hard to make a connection to him. There are moments where Bale gives his character some range, but for the most part Preston was a robot and Bale couldn't do much about it. Watson was in a pretty good in her small as the pseudo-love interest. But her role was limited to about 10 minutes of screen time. The best performer was William Fichtner as the leader of the resistance and Matthew Harbour could have been very creepy as Bale's son if done right. But Taye Diggs was a poor action in Equilibrium, not even playing ambitious or emotionless well. Angus Macfadyen simply got to ham up his performance.There was some interest images and ideas in the film, like the government symbol and flag being similar to Swastika. But on the other side of the coin surely ideas of rituals would not exist in an emotionless society?But despite the problems of Equilibrium there are some interesting ideas and Wimmer did have some ambition. There are some good action scenes which mixes hand-to-hand combat with gun fights. But it was a B-Movie which actors at a certain stage have to do before getting bigger and better roles, i.e. Bale is now Batman.
The work of Wes Anderson is very much a required tasted. Known for his quirky style of direction and writing Anderson has a strong fanbase of film fans, but also has his dissenters. His latest film is The Grand Budapest Hotel easily appeals to his fans, but not going to win over his detractors, telling a story of murder, art-theft and impending war as a hotel concierge in a small European country is accused of murder and sets out to prove his innocents.The Grand Budapest Hotel is a highly energetic, almost screwball like comedy filled with witty lines and a cast that most directors would dream of having. Ralph Fiennes gives an excellent comic performance as the softly spoken lead and he has some of the best lines of the flick. Adrian Brody and Willem Dafoe too were strong as the villains, particularly Dafoe playing a cold-blooded thug of a man. It is refreshing to hear the talented Saoirse Ronan being allowed to use her natural Irish accent for once in a film. Some of the jokes do fall flat and serve as an excuse to give some of Anderson's buddies a cameo such as all the different hotel concierges are all calling each other. The Grand Budapest Hotel is a bright, colourful film and Anderson's stamp is all over it with his trademark shots, angles and camera are all present and he makes a fantastic looking film because of its lavish art-direction and cinematography. Alexandre Desplat supplies the music score for the film and it is a fantastic piece of music, one of his best, using the organ as its base.
Frank Darabont and Stephen King must have a real special working relationship. The best Stephen King adaptations have been done adapted and directed by Frank Darabont (except for the Shining), whilst Frank Darabont greatest success has come from directing King's prison fiction. However with The Mist Darabont has step out of his comfort zone (but to great effect).In a small town in New England, David (Thomas Jane) is a successful artist living happily with his wife (Kelly Collins Lintz) and young son, Billy (Nathan Gamble). After a powerful thunderstorm their home suffers damage, so David, Billy and their next door neighbour Brent (Andre Braugher) go to the local supermarket to get good for the replaces they need to do. Whilst at the store a strange mist descends on the town, and scare monsters living withing it. This is confirmed when a bagboy is killed, but some people like Brent do not believe in monsters, and think there is a more logical explanation. When the monsters start to attack and people start dying, some people take extreme action, some fight, some run, others commit suicide, whilst others turn to Mrs. Carmody (Marcia Gay Harden), a fundamentalist Christian and local nutcase. As the people in the siege become more desperate they start to listen to Carmody who has a fire and brimstone view of the Bible and see the monsters attack as a punishment from God. David and some other people do not like the way things are turning within the supermarket and have to fight Carmody from corrupting everyone.The monsters are effectively done, whilst the action is exciting. They is some blood and gore, and with a budget of $18 Million, the CGI is top-notch. But whilst the monsters are well done, the real horror isn't from that threat, it's from the threat of people. It is a commentary of how desperate people will become and look for some sort of order, even if its from extreme sorts. Carmody is an example of Christian and religion at it's worst, a dogmatic belief where you try and enforce it on others. She reminds of Phelps family, a horrible family who see America as a decadent nation which is about to collapse because of homosexuality, and picket outside the funerals of dead soldiers. These are people who claim there are Christians but are anything but, and give all religion a bad name. It's this theme of religion and control which is the real horror of the film, makes you think and stays in your mind. The ending is also very howling and bleak, which is surprising from a Hollywood film. Frank Darabont shows once again what a talented storyteller he is, with a well rounded, three dimensional characters. Carmody is a true example of a antagonist, whilst David and everyone else is a ordinary person in a extreme situation.There are some problems with the film. Whilst most of the acting is decent, and Carmody is a character you love to hate I think Marcia Gay Harden could and should have been stronger. There are some plot problems, like how quickly it takes people to descend into chaos and disorder (but admittedly that was on of the main themes of the film). The third act was also not as strong as the rest of the film, despite the dark ending.However a good example of a horror film, and I recommend it: especially if you like Cloverfield and the Japanese Godzilla. There are also similarities to Aliens.
A number of horror fans and film critics thought that this film was absolutely brilliant, a good example being Mark Kermode, the critic from BBC Radio Five Live and is a major authority on horror fiction and films. The best I can say for the film that it was okay, but I am not a big horror fan. I normally prefer zombie films like the Dead series and 28 Days Later.The plot of the film is 3 backpackers at in Boome in Western Australia. Two are female and English and the other is male and Australian. They plan to drive from Boome to Cairns in Queensland and stop at Wolf Creek, a national park and the site of a meteorite crater (the second largest in the world). They travel through the outback and go through some small towns before making it to the crater. However when they prepare to set off their watches stop and their car won't start. A man from the outback meets them in the middle of the night and tolls them to his house, which takes a number of hours. The man seems perfectly nice until the backpackers fall asleep, with one of the girls wakes up tied up and the other girl is being tortured by the man. The backpackers have to fight for their lives.The film is violence and gory, but I didn't think it was scary. However the violence was not overdone like in other horror films. It was low budget but actually well done and looked professionally done. The actor was fine, but didn't strike out to be anything special. To me this film isn't much different to film like Hostel, but they is an audience for that type of film.
War Time adventures have often been a popular genre, from Casablanca to the English Patient. Adventures set in the past in exotic location have also been a popular idea, and the African Queen does that.Set in 1914 on the outbreak of World War One, Rose (Katharine Hepburn) and Samuel Sayer (Robert Morley), are brother and sister from England, working as missionaries in German East Africa. After the village they are working in is attacked by the Germans and the men are forced into the army. Samuel soon dies of a fever. Rose ends up going with Charlie Allnut (Humphrey Bogart), a Canadian boat captain of the African Queen. Both try to find a course to British territory. The only way is going through rapids, passed by a massive German fortress and through a lake dominated by a large German battle riverboat. On the way Rose comes up with an ambitious scheme to blow up the boat and on the two fall in love.The African Queen is a popular film, and rated by critics and fans. It is a fine excellent of film making, focusing on only two characters and sticks to it's narrative course. They is action adventure for men, and a strong romantic storyline for women. Katharine Hepburn offers a good performance, whilst Humphrey Bogart was strong for the most of the time, but he did overact at times. Humphrey Bogart won an Oscar for this performance, but he should have won it for Casablanca. They are good set-pieces, and John Huston show he has skill behind the camera. But at times his direction was a little too obvious. The scenery and the cinematography are excellent throughout the film. The African jungle and rivers do look wonderful.The African Queen is a fine example of a time for it's time. A respectable 4 out of 5.
When I first heard about Phone Booth I thought that it sounded like a good idea, a indie thriller set in one place. However when it came to watching the film I didn't like it.The basic plot of the film is Stu Shepard (Colin Farrell) is a publicist who lives a very amoral life. He is married to one woman (Radha Mitchell) and having an affair with another (Katie Holmes). He makes his phone calls from the last phone booth in New York. From this a sniper (Kiefer Sutherland) who has been watching Stu for a while decides to get attack Stu using mind-games and tricks and if he got out the booth the sniper would kill him. Because of the actions of Stu the media and the police become involved.There are a few reasons why I don't like this film. Firstly I didn't think that this film's script was well written and I didn't believe in it. Secondly there was a likable character in the film so you end up not caring about them. Thirdly this was the start of Colin Farrell becoming a lazy actor and it was not a particular good performance in this film. Finally I just thought that film was boring.It just best to avoid it.
In 2007 Quentin Tarantino and his friend Robert Rodriguez attempted to play homage to the grindhouse films of their childhood: cheaply made double-features that were often exploitation flicks. They released their films, Death Proof and Planet Terror as a double feature in America as Grindhouse, and had fake trailers directed by directors like Eli Roth and Edgar Wright. But Grindhouse flopped in America, so to recoup its money Death Proof and Planet Terror were released as two separate films.Death Proof follows the victims of Stuntman Mike (Kurt Russell), a psychopathic ex-stuntman who stalks young women and uses his specially reconstructed car to do this. He is a menace in Texas and Tennessee. He uses his skills as a driver and willing to put his own life at risk, but he is no plain psycho, he is a intelligent and articulate. His targets include a group of friends in Austin, who want to spend a night drinking before going to a lake-side retreat and a members of a film crew who have a few days off.The plot is thin, but that was work some of these B-Movie were like. What Tarantino does as a writer and director is turn these B-Movie ideas into higher quality films. He shows his skill with witty and clever dialogue throughout. He sets out to make his character interesting and well rounded, but leaves enough mystery with Stuntman Mike to make him an effective villain. The smarter thing to do is not say why someone becomes a serial killer in these type of movies. Tarantino shows his skill with some expertly crafted chase scenes, using good old techniques giving them a more real edge. It shows his love for these type of movies. Tarantino also references some of his own films in Death Proof, such as Pulp Fiction and Kill Bill, making out there live in the same universe. It's debatable if they really are though. Tarantino also shows a few different styles of filming, a scratchy style like it was on cheap 70s film where it cuts in random places, a small scene in black-and-white and more standard filming. The scratchy is a nice homage but the black-and-white was a little random. There was also a good soundtrack, a common trait in Tarantino's films.Kurt Russell was good choice to play the villain: he was a star in the B-Movie circuit, being in many John Carpenter films. His age and physical prowess was perfect for the role and he had the acting chops with the chance to use some excellent dialogue. There was a good cast of tough women in the film, Rosario Dawson, Zoe Bell (in her first real role), Vanessa Ferlito and Sydney Tamiia Poitier are just a few examples. Tarantino knows how to get a good performance out his actors. Mary Elizabeth Winstead was also wonderfully native and she was hot in a cheerleader's outfit. But there seems to be a more voyeuristic nature to this film, with Tarantino more willing to sexualise his female characters. He allows the camera to oggle at some of the women and Tarantino seem to have great fun filming Ferlito's lap-dance. It seems to be a step backwards for Tarantino considering Kill Bill had such as strong female lead.Whilst the film is good for the most part, it is the weakest film in Tarantino's filmography. It does not have quiet the same quality to his other films. Some scenes were too long and the film could have been cut by about 10 minutes. Death Proof could have been a really fun 90 minute experience. It also seemed a bit ill-fitting to have modern technology like iPods and mobile phones when the film was shot in a 70s style and the fashion and cars also seeming to be from that period.This is an enjoyable homage to films of Tarantino's youth.
This film had all the hallmarks of being a disaster: it was was based on a very popular and critically acclaimed horror, it was directed by a first-time director and was going to take a glossy approach compared to the original. But luckily the first-time director was Zack Snyder, a man who was known for doing adverts, and a man who picks his projects carefully. He ends up doing the important and making a good re-make of a horror classic.In the American state of Wisconsin the zombie virus suddenly spreads, causing death and destruction around the world. In the middle of this is Ana (Sarah Polley), a nurse who has to go on the run after her husband and friends are turned. She joins up with a group of survivors, including a cop/former marine Kenneth (Ving Rhames), Michael (Jake Weber), petty criminal Andre (Mekhi Phifer) and his pregnant wife Luda (Inna Korobkina). They decide to hold themselves up in local shopping mall with a team of security guards. More survivors join them, but soon becomes clear that they could only stay in the mall for a limited amount of time, especially with the survivors turning on themselves.As stated, Snyder is a director who picks his projects carefully. He rejected the chance to direct SWAT because it wouldn't be R-rated, and later on rejected doing X-Men 3 because he wanted to do 300, and rejected doing Wolverine because it wouldn't be R-rated and so he could direct Watchmen. Some first-time directors are so desperate to direct a Hollywood, that they don't think about the consequences for their career. But this didn't happen to Snyder. Horror remakes often repeat the same plot of the origin, but have more glossy violence, and making the film a boring experience. What Snyder and the writers avoid this: they follow the same basic plot, survivors are under siege in a mall, but they make a different film to George A. Romero, following a different storyline.Snyder shows his skill as a director, films some fine action scenes, showing he can deliver a few good scares and makes a exciting gore action (it is acceptable for zombie films to be gory). The opening is particularly good moment, with good scares, a shot scene involving Ana driving her car away from her house, and with a zombie following her. The opening credits were also well used to show the impact the rise of the zombies with news footage around the world. Snyder also casts some actors more famous for smaller roles. Ving Rhames is a talented actor and he role was very similar to Ken Foree in the original. Mekhi Phifer too is a good actor, and a decent bit of casting. Sarah Polley was a compelling led and with Ving Rhames made a good team. However some of the acting does slip a little at times.The remake never has George A. Romero's political message about American consumerism. They is a little nod to American militarism but that was really an after thought then any real political insight. This film just sets out to be fun, popcorn version of this story. Snyder was also influenced by Danny Boyle's 28 Days Later, allowing the zombies to run. This must have been because of that film's success and try and make Dawn of the Dead more action packed.A good remake and a good debut for Snyder.
The film of Edith Piaf's short and tragic life is a sad but rewarding experience. La Vie En Rose is told in flash-forwards and flashbacks, which specially works and fits the story. The film shows Edith glowing up in poverty in rural France, her mother abandons her to persuade her singing career, her father had to rise money so had to give his daughter to his mother who rang a brothel in Normandy. Edith meets the first person to love, a prostitute named Titine who helps the young girl conquer her blindness. When her father takes her back she lives with the circus and discoveries her talent to sing. The film shows her rise in the 30s, from street singer to a star in France then her raise in America and the suffering of drug addiction and loosing loved ones.The director by Olivier Dahan is excellent, blending my aspects of Piaf's life and making interesting viewing. But most praise should go to Marion Cotillard as the adult Piaf who ages on the scene from a young 20 year old women to a sickly middle-aged one. She plays the role with conviction. Both the actress and the director make you care for the singer even when she was being a Prima Donna. I am personally looking forward to Cotillard's next film Public Enemies. There is wonderful music by Edith Piaf as you would expect. Even if you don't like her type of music there is no denying she was a wondering singer. The film looks at a dark subjects, but there is a positive, that Piaf loved to sing, it was her drive to keep her going and she wanted to look for love. I personally really enjoy and was interested in the early put of Piaf's live, especially her childhood.However, only a French film can ignore the Second World War.4 out 5.
When I first saw the trailer for Zombieland I feared that it was simply to be a poor American copy of the classic British film Shaun of the Dead. Luckily I was wrong and Zombieland is a funny, action comedy in its own right and nearly as good as Edgar Wright/Simon Pegg's work.Two months after a virus turns most of the world's population into flesh eating zombies, Zombieland follows the survivor "Columbus" (Jesse Eisenberg), a social outcast who follows his list of 31 rules to survive. On the way back to home to Columbus, Ohio "Columbus" meets "Tallahassee" (Woody Harrelson), a handy man at killing zombies and on a mission to find the world's last Twinkie in world. After getting rob by two sisters, "Wichita" (Emma Stone) and "Little Rock" (Abigail Breslin) the four end up joining forces and head west to California, believing that there is an uninfected area.What makes Zombieland work is a very strong and witty script by Paul Wernick and Rhett Reese, excellent direction from Ruben Fleischer and top comic performances from a great cast. The writers and Fleischer were able to mix both great witty dialogue, funny lines and reactions with excellent physical humour, sight gags and violence slapstick.Fleischer is a very stylist director, with particular the opening credits set during the collapse of society and the way the rules come up on screen. He was able to make a quick paced film, with a lot of violence action. The zombies are more like the creatures in 28 Days Later and the remake of Dawn of the Dead, fast and disgusting looking: they would have fitted well in a serious horror film. Fleischer knew how to handle his set-piece and much of the action was of top quality. The style of mixing bloody violence with a light hearted tone and some serious moments, and the way it was shot reminded me of Kick-Ass (which was actually released six months after Zombieland). The writers were able to inject some character development, allowing the characters to grow from lonely and develop trust and they do allow for serious moments and make the film more then just a mindless comedy gore feast. The scene in the store reminded me a little bit of the scene in 28 Days Later.There is great chemistry between the cast. Eisenberg and Harrelson are both normal comic talents and were an fine chalk and cheese combo. Emma Stone is an actress with potential and she dominate the feisty chick role: she looked the part (and was great looking) and she worked particularly well with a big name actor in cameo role. I look forward to seeing her in the next Spider-man film, but I think she would have been perfect as Mary-Jane Watson rather then Gwen Stacy. I am sure that a bit of dialogue was ad-lipped, which is always smart thing to do in a comedy. Breslin has shown she has had a good child actress ever since her debut in Signs and that had comic talent in Little Miss Sunshine. She also worked well with Harrelson, with them arguing and have a dislike to each other and talking about Willy Nelson and Hannah Montana. Plus she had a shotgun and any film can improve if it has an 11-year-old girl with shotgun.Dave Sardy also gave the film a fitting, intense rock score, adding to fun nature of the film.
Wes Craven is of course a legend to horror fans for his work on films like Nightmare on Elm Street and The Hills Have Eyes. He was the perfect man to make Scream, a post modern homage and comedy of slasher films but also a good slasher on its own. Writer Kevin Williamson originally wanted to make Scream a trilogy, so getting Wes Craven was a sensible decision to keep the series going.A year after the events of Scream a film has been about it, "Stab". During a preview screening two university students (Omar Epps and Jada Pinkett) are murdered in a crowded cinema. The media descend on the university which the hero from the first film, Sidney Prescott (Neve Campbell) is studying at. And it all seem like it was going well for Sidney who seem to get her life back on track. But the survivors of the first film become the targets of the new ghost face killer as the body court starts to raise.Like the first film there is sharp dialogue throughout, there is insight about horror genre and theories about whether violence in film influence violence in real life (I personally think that rubbish because if you got violence tendencies you don't need a film to influence you) and it both a commentary on the genre and social attitudes. Even if Scream and Scream 2 were made as straight forward slasher films they would seen be better then most because the character are more likable and believable then in most slashers, making you care for characters if something happens to them. I also really like Craven's way of shooting chases with the way the camera follows the action of someone being chased in a easy to follow yet tense way. Paul Greengrass should take note that a scene can be tense without the need of shaky cam preventing the audience working out what's happening.The acting is decent enough. Courtney Cox's character Gail Weathers grows to be a little more softer and likable with more tender scenes. Campbell is very solid as the lead, forced back into a situation she thought she would never face again. But after going through all this twice I would have thought she would be psychological scarred for life. Elise Neal and Pinkett basically play typical sassy black women, especially Pinkett who is also a woman with an axe to grind about women's and African American's rights. Jerry O'Connell who plays Sidney's boyfriend is made out to be a decent bloke if a bit of a preppy. I personally thought that Liev Schreiber was a bit of a weak link because I really did not buy into performance and his looked like he was on autopilot.Scream 2 is also filled with subplots, one of them being the three other survivors believing one of them is the killer and they go on the search to find out who it really is and one able Cotton (Schreiber) wanting to get Sidney to agree to an interview about how her evidence got him arrested for her mother's murder and so he could put his side of the story out to the media. There were well handled and did not distract from main plot which a fast paced affair. The scene on the university court yard was an additional tense when characters try and find Ghostface.The film starts off being very similar to the first film, a 10 minute prologue, the police and media going crazy, the debate of film and Sidney punching Gail, it is still different from the first and not just a repeat of Scream. For the most part Scream 2 still plays on horror clichés like two characters arguing a case about whether to run or check to see if the killer is dead and have a valid argument. But sometimes Scream 2 does fall into the cliché trap like a cop having a chance to kill Ghostface or the characters splitting up when Ghostface is around. But it still a strong, entertaining knowing horror film.
I went to see this movie in the cinema with a friend of mine and we were the only two people in to see it. The film was made by Judd Apatow, the maker of such films like the 40-Year-Old Virgin and a key member of the Frat pack. I am not a big film of the Frat Pack type comedies but there were good reviews for Knocked Up at the time.The plot of the film is as the title suggests, a woman getting pregnant after a one night stand. The main character of the film is Allison (Katherine Heigl), a woman working for E! and was given the chance to become a presenter. At the same time Ben (Seth Rogen) is a lazy, unemployed young man who lived with his friends and was working on a website that tells people when a nude scene was in a movie. Allison and her sister decide to celebrate her promotion by going for the night and in a bar Allison meets Ben. The two of them get drunk and go back the Allison's. Whilst getting ready for the act of love Ben struggles to put protection on. Allison tell him to hurry up and he misunderstands and goes on unprotected. The obvious result was that she gets pregnant and the film focuses on Allison and Ben's relationship afterwards.The film was advised as a comedy in the mould of Frat Pack comedy. However this film did not have the slapstick or silliness you would expect from those sort of films and Knocked Up was must more serious movie. I put it down to the subject matter that the film matter. There were issues of relationships and parenthood in this movie. There was also a sub-plot between Allison's sister Debbie (Leslie Mann) and her relationship with her husband. There was also the issue about Ben having to grow up and face his responsibilities. The film did make me smile and chuckle, but was belly arching laugher. It was an okay movie, but nothing special. Okay to watch if it was on TV.
Spider-man 3 is the weakest of the Spiderman films, but it is still an entertaining superhero film.Set a few years after Spider-man 2, Peter Parker's life is on the right track, he is doing well in University, he is going out with Mary-Jane who is starting in a Broadway Show and Spiderman is loved by New Yorkers. But they are problems on the horizon, Harry Osborn had found out that Peter was Spiderman and blames him for his father's death. He takes his father's formula and found his equipment to make him the Green Goblin Jr.. Flint Marko (Thomas Haden Church), a petty theft, has escaped from prison and after running onto a scientific base he becomes the powerful villain the Sandman. As well an meteorite clashes into Central Park, releasing the symbiote, that gives Spiderman extra power but makes him explore his dark side. In Peter's personal life they are also problems. He has a new rival at the Daily Bugle, Eddie Brock (Topher Grace), who has eyes on Peter's job. Peter himself becomes more self-centred and thinks more about himself then Mary-Jane, who herself is depress after loosing her role in the show.The Sandman turns out to be the man who really killed Peter's Uncle Ben, and as Spiderman sets out to gain revenge. Harry Osborn wants revenge against Spiderman for his father's death and after being unable to match Spidey physically, takes him on emotionally. Eddie Brock ends wanting revenge against Peter after he looses his job and girlfriend, blaming Peter.Spider-man 3 lacks the emotional depth and character development the first two films did, but they still is some, and in tone to the previous films, compared to another superhero threequel, X-Men: the Last Stand. The cast do they best, James Franco has more to do then he did in the previous films. Thomas Haden Church made a good Sandman. Topher Grace was sadly miscasted as Eddie Brock, but he does his best. Bryce Dallas Howard is pretty hot as Gwan Stacey. They are good action sequences and so was the CGI, the best in the series. There are excellent fights between Spidey and Green Goblin Jr., Spidey and the Sandman in the subway and the final fight scene. Venom and Sandman looked impressive. Also, James Cromwell, an excellent actor has a small role in the film.The two big problems are they are too many villains and the characterisation was just all wrong. By have 3 (4 if you count the inter-demon), make the audience lost at times. They should have been one or two villains just to make the film more manageable for be the makers and the audience. The Sandman was portrayed also to the point that he was a sympathetic character, ruining the character. Venom, one of the most popular villains in Marvel Comics is cruelly underused. He should have been saved for the next film, being set up at the end of Spider-man 3. But the director Sam Raimi, disliked the character, hating his lack of morality, but that's why he is such a great villain. In the comics they is more to Venom, Eddie Brock blames Spiderman for the lost of his journalist career and he was committed Catholic, hating killing and even protected a young family. Raimi shouldn't have been forced to use Venom in the film.Other minor problems are that the film is a little two long and they seems to be a small continuity problem, how could Mary-Jane be doing well as a stage-actress in plays, then go to Broadway and then just become a singing waitress. Finally, the symbiote just happens to crash in the middle of Central Park. It would have been more realistic if the film shown the symbotic crashing to Earth in the Space Shuttler like in the cartoon in the 90s or being studied at the University as another opinion.Overall, Spidey 3 is a decent, but not a great film. I personally hope the Kingpin is used as a villain in Spider-man 4 and that Venom is done properly after Raimi's reign in the director's chair is over.
The 2004 Tsunami was one of the biggest and most destructive natural disasters in recent memory, creating damage from India to Indonesia and causing at least 230,000 deaths. One of the worst affected countries was Thailand and thus was born The Impossible, a film from the creative team behind the horror film The Orphanage, director J.A. Bayona and writer Sergio G. Sánchez set out to show both a personal story as well as tell a wider tale about the Tsunami affecting that area.Henry and Maria Bennett (Ewan McGregor and Naomi Watts) and their children Lucas, Tomas and Simon (Tom Holland, Samuel Joslin and Oaklee Pendergast) are a British family who go to Thailand for a Christmas vacation. But they are separated when the Tsunami hits, with Naomi and Lucas caught in the wave and ending up seeing the chaos and the confusion that the disaster caused. As Lucas battles in a hospital to get his mother the medical attention she needs, Henry sets out to find Maria and Lucas, something that seems to be a hopeless cause.One of the best features of The Impossible is Bayona's great ability to show both the scale of the disaster and impact it has on the landscape and people whilst still showing a personal story. Bayona recreates this with his wide shots and helicopter shots, that recreate the massive devastation the wave caused to both to manmade structures and the natural landscape, showing the large death toll and he is able to immerse you into the chaos of the aftermath of the tight hospital area with vivid detail. For a film with a PG-13 rating, it is surprisingly gory and Bayona does not put his punches when showing the extent of Maria's injuries. Bayona also gives us an instance sequence when the Tsunami waves hit as Maria and Lucas struggle to reach each with all the dirt and debris in the water. It is feat of special effects, drama and action. Bayona knew the impact of the Tsunami and brought out the harrowing nature of the disaster in its fullest.McGregor, Watts and Holland all give very emotional performance and the trio are excellent bring out their characters in the themes of parenthood and the child-parent relationship and bond. Despite the subject manner of The Impossible the actors and the director bring out the theme of hope and how they either must keep it or how they can provide it to others.The Impossible is a weepy of a film and it wants to brings its audience on an emotional roller-coaster, but it can be a bit manipulative at times. Bayona does this a number of times with children being put in peril and families being reunited in slow motion and sentimental music to match. This is an obvious attempt to tug at the audiences heart strings; but it is at times over done and over played as it tries to elicit as much emotion as it can muster.The Impossible is a very actuate film that excels that showing both a personal story and the wider situation of the disaster. It is more then a simple weepy because of its themes and how it shows impact of the Tsunami. The Impossible is an excellently acted film and Bayona's direction is high hitting, even if it's occasionally a little too heavy handed.Please visit www.entertainmentfuse.com
Last Action Hero is notorious action film that attempted to be a meta satire, being a box-office and critical flop despite it starring the biggest action hero of the time, Arnold Schwarzenegger and helmed by Die Hard and Predator director John McTiernan.Danny Madigan (Austin O'Brien) is a movie obsessed kid who skips school so he can watch the over-blown action series Jack Slater, starring Mr. Schwarzenegger. When Danny's friend, the elderly projectionist Nick (Robert Prosky) offer Danny the chance to see the fourth Jack Slater film before anyone else the kid jumps at the chance and Nick gives Danny a magic ticket. But Danny ends up transported to the movie world where he tries to convince Jack Slater he is really a fictional character as the villainous Benedict (Charles Dance) sees an opportunity to be more then a Mafia hit-man.Last Action Hero had a troubled production and post-production, from getting Shane Black to radically rewrite the script, having an awful test screening, being edited to the last minute and coming out a week after the hugely popular Jurassic Park. Added with the negative reviews Last Action Hero failed. But since its release Last Action Hero has developed a cult following and some see it as a misunderstood classic. I do not share that view point.As you would expect from McTiernan the action is of a very high standard and wonderfully over the top. There are explosions galore and Schwarzenegger continued to be an action presence. Schwarenegger also did have some funny jokes. But the meta approach of the satire falls flat. The idea of satirising action movies of the 80s and early 90s was fair game and still serves a way to deliver an excellent action film, but it was affected by the framing device of the movie-within-a-movie, allowing Danny to break the clichés down for us instead of letting us figuring it out ourselves. It is a bit like the Scream series but the Scream series was able to get away with it more due to the universe created.Some of the jokes in Last Action Hero really do fall flat like the cops getting mix-matched partners and it gets puts to extremes like someone getting partnered with a rabbi, another with a cartoon cat and a black-and-white Humphrey Bogart also gets in on the action. Another really ill-advised joke was when the police captain is yelling at Jack Slater so much that steam comes out of his ears.Dance did make for a good villain and are some decent character actors in supporting roles like Tom Noonan and F. Murray Abraham, but O'Brien was a grating presence as the know-it-all child.Last Action Hero is far from being Arnie's worst film, it wouldn't even be in the bottom five, but it is a wasted opportunity at satirising the action genre, being too meta for its own good. Hot Fuzz is a much better satire of the buddy cop and action genre.
Producer Jerry Bruckheimer has a nack for making blockbusters and can turned some of the thinnest ideas in gold, i.e. a theme park ride. With The Sorcerer's Apprentice he set out to turn the famous Mickey Mouse segment of Fantasia into a live action film which in turn was based on a 18th poem by Johann Wolfgang von Goethe.Starting in 740AD the great wizard Merlin has three apprentices, Balthazar (Nicolas Cage), Horvath (Alfred Molina) and Veronica (Monica Bellucci), and they were in battle with Morgana le Fay (Alice Krige). They get their Arthurian legends all wrong but lets not worry about that. In the final battle Horvath betrays his counterparts and Balthazer traps everyone Matryoshka doll. As Merlin lays dying he tells Balthazar to find the Prime Merlinian, his successor. Fast forward to 2000, Balthazar finds him in the form of a 10-year-old boy in New York, Dave Stutler (Jake Cherry). But Balthazar and Horvath are trapped in a urn for 10 years. Another ten years goes by and Dave (Jay Baruchel) is a very intelligent physics student who is able to teach students. He meets his childhood crush Becky (Teresa Palmer), but Balthazar returns and wants to train the 20-year-old to be a great sorcerer. But they have to stop Horvath from freeing Morgana who wants to bring a new evil to the world.The Sorcerer's Apprentice was a box-office bomb, making only $215 Million from a $150 Million budget. 2010 was a bad year for Bruckheimer, Prince of Persia was a flop. But don't feel bad for Bruckheimer, he is mega-rich and a major supporter of the Republican party.As a film The Sorcerer's Apprentice is not a good film, but nor is it a bad film, its just a little mediocre. There are good special effects and the action and fight scene were handled. Director Jon Turteltaub made sure it was a fast paced little romp and I do like the idea of mixing magic with modern society and science. I liked the element that the wizarding world had split into two factors and have two different ideologies. There is also a strong scene of chemistry between Cage and Molina as old rivals as they friend. Molina certainly looked like he was having fun and Cage did at least bring a deadpan wit. I know Cage has tax problems at the money and if it his forced to do movies, at least do movies like this where the paycheque will be big. Trevor Rabin's score is also decent, even if some of it sounds like Pirates of the Caribbean.Now for the bad. The main problem is Jay Baruchel who was an annoying, whining little man. I could not believe he was a smart scientist who could make Peter Parker blush. The famous creative writing expert Christopher Vogler argues that heroes need to be reluctant, most time. Fair enough, I can agree with that argument, but then the writers of The Sorcerer's Apprentice took it to its extremes and making Dave a real wimp and a bit dumb. I also really dislike his voice he used in the film. When you end up routing for the bad guys to kill the protagonist then the filmmakers have truly failed! The humour was pretty stupid and predictable and whilst I know this was a tongue in cheek film the humour should have relied more witty lines then embarrassing situations. Many of the plot elements are predictable, the romance, the bad guys getting the thing they want or need but the good guys find a way to defend the almighty bad guy. Toby Kebbell was also in the film, a really talented actor but for his character was one of the most campy creations I have ever seen. He looked stupid and whilst it did seen to hint that his character may have some moral ambiguity, that was quickly pulled aside: but you know, complex characterisation, who needs that? I believe that Bruckheimer was hoping to turn the film into a franchise. Considering the disappointing box-office numbers I doubt it will happen.
Even before the events of 9/11 they was always a paranoia that America was going to suffer a terrorist attack: cultural examples are Tom Clancy's novel Executive Orders, and the film The Long Kiss Goodnight. This fear included after the events of 9/11, leading more additions like 24. But these books, films and television programmes looked at the political side and the counter terrorism fight, not the ordinary people who could be cause up in it. This is where Right At Your Doors comes in, which acclaim on the festival and been critically received by people like Empire Magazine and Mark Kermode.Opening on an seemingly ordinary day, Brad (Rory Cochrane) and Lexi (Mary McCormack) a normal couple in Los Andreas prepare for another day. Brad is an out of work musician, whilst Lexi is a career woman. However in Los Andreas a number of dirty bombs explore. Brad tries to get to downtown Los Andreas but the police, prevent him. Brad follows the advise on the radio to seal up his house, waits for help. But Lexi turns out to be a alive and locked outside her home. The couple are scared, with the US government talking extreme action because of toxic atmosphere.Chris Goark makes a good film about on of America's biggest fears, and brings it to a ground level, and how it affects real people. Goark shows a event that causes real panic, and how people would react. The media provides little information, the authorities are unable to cope and end up not being trusted. This is a situation that forces people to stay in their homes and test their relationships. Goark also show what is a very plausible terrorist attack that could easily kill thousands of people. Goark shows he is a man with potential as a writer and director, keeping the settings and characters down to a minimum.There is a small cast, who do a decent for the most part, but they are admittedly some times that they wobble a little. But to do at least put some effort into their performances.This is a very worthy film with a silly low IMDb rating. If you enjoy this film then Cloverfield will also be a film of interest, and so is the fifth episode of the second series of Spooks.
After the success of Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels Guy Ritchie quickly became hot property and a follow up film was expected. Ritchie decided on bringing the audience another comedy-gangster caper and he had the added clout of attaching big name stars like Brad Pitt and Benicio del Toro.Snatch tells multiple but interlinking stories set in the London underworld. A 87 carat diamond had been stolen by Frankie "Four-Fingers" (del Toro) in Antwerp, Belgium. He is sent to London to have it evaluated by the diamond dealer Doug "The Head" Denovitz (Mike Reid), for an American gangster Avi (Dennis Farina). Frankie is a meant to stay low but his gambling habits play havoc on that idea. Turkish (Jason Statham) and Tommy (Stephen Graham) are organisers and promoters for underground boxing fights A ruthless gangster Brick Top (Alan Ford) recruits them and demands that their fighter throws the fight so he could make a killing for his gambling empire. When Turkish's fighter is unable to fight he is forced to recruit an Irish traveller Mickey (Pitt) to be his boxer: but Mickey does not play ball. Boris "The Blade" (Rade erbedija) also wants the diamond and he hires two hapless criminals, Sol (Lennie James) and Vinnie (Robbie Gee) to steal it from Frankie. But to do this they end up stepping on Brick Top's turf, who quickly becomes involve in the fight for the diamond.Ritchie as a writer has a limited range as a writer, he often does these mockney gangsters with interlinking story lines, macguffins and over-the-top characters. He is often a man who thinks he is smarter then really is. But even with this formula Ritchie does make a fun film with a lot of comedy and the story elements fit well together. It shows a number of story lines can work if the writing is good. This is of course not a serious take on London gangsters which is a shame really because British filmmaker have made some real classics like Get Carter and The Long Good Friday. But as a comedy take it is still pretty good and there is plenty of action throughout. But there were some really silly things throughout like the names of some of the characters, the use of mockney English because no one speaks like that and the way some characters act throughout the film. Ritchie is stylist in his direction with some brilliant shots throughout and there is a visual kinetic style. The film is fast paced and Ritchie knows how to deliver a action, with the boxing fights and the gun fights. There are some moments of real flair like in the beginning when it uses CCTV screens to follow a group of robbers.There is a excellent cast in this film. Of course the Hollywood A-Listers are good in Snatch, del Toro effectively playing a European gangster and it had to take an American actor to give an over-the-top Irish accent with the ultimate amount of slang. The Stath shows that from his origins as a model and a driver that he can be good actor and shows that he has some real comic energy in Snatch. Ford was very effective as the top gangster of London with a remorseless nature and James and Gee were decent comic folly.A good film, but Lock, Stock is Ritchie's best.
In terms of the books, Goblet of Fire is my favourite in the series, in the film series its around 3 or 4. The book was a well-written, well-built novel with a lot of subplots and full of surprises. The film is entertaining, action packed, but does have some faults.Set in Harry Potter's (Daniel Radcliffe) fourth year at Hogwarts, dark times are starting to come with the Quidditch World Cup being raided by Voldemort's followers, the Death Eaters, and Harry himself is suffering from a recurring nightmare involving Voldemort, Peter Pettigrew aka Wormtail (Timothy Spall) and a man being given a task to bring Harry to Voldemort (David Tennett before his Doctor Who fame). When Harry returns to Hogwarts the students learn that the school is going to host the Tri-Wizard tournament between 3 magic schools. The rules that Dumbledore (Michael Gambon) lays out is that no one under 17 could enter. That doesn't stop someone entering Harry for him, and he ends up having to compete in dangerous tasks against Hogwarts' champion, Cedric Diggory (Roger Patterson, pre-Twilight fame), Bulgarian wizard and Quidditich star Vickor Krum (Stanislav Ianevski) and the beautiful French witch Fleur Delacour (Clémence Poésy). Hogwarts also gains a new Defence Against the Dark Art teacher, the nearly insane Alastor Moody (Brendan Gleeson), who aids Harry along the tasks with his friends Ron (Rupert Grint), Hermione (Emma Watson) and groundskeeper Hagrid (Robbie Coltrane). As well as the main story, there are sub-plots involving Harry and Ron's first falling out, Harry and Ron's quest to find a date to the Yule Ball, Harry's first crush with the lovely Cho Chang (Katie Leung) and hints of romantic involving between Harry and Hermione.Goblet of Fire is one of the longest books in the series, and it was inevitable that some elements were going to be shorten or be cut altogether. The Dursley's are cut altogether, so is most of the Quidditch World Cup and so is Hermione's quest to bring about equal rights to House Elves and pretty much becomes a witch version of a hippy. Some elements could have been spared and others could have be cut in their place. But I'm a purest and that is my curse. There are good additions to the cast, Brendan Gleeson and David Tennett are fine actors and add to the film. Robert Pattinson and Clémence Poésy are perfectly decent, whilst Katie Leung is lovely. Timothy Spall is excellent at Peter Pettigrew, continuing where he left off in Prisoner of Azkaban. But it is Ralph Fiennes who steals the show as Lord Voldemort. He is only in the film briefly, but he was really excellent as the force of evil. Daniel Radcliffe, Rupert Grint and Emma Watson all continue to improve as actors. Alan Rickman is a little underused and Maggie Smith was very underused.Alfonso Cuaron was ordinarily offered the director's chair, but he had to decline because he had to focus on post-production work on Prisoner of Azkaban. The producers turned to Mike Newell, a director with a decent reputation as a drama director, making films like Donnie Brasco. But he had no experience as a blockbuster director, and the marketing department made a big deal out of the first he was the first British director to direct a very British icon. Newell throws himself straight into the CGI special effects. He does direct some good action sequences, such as the dragon sequence and the fight with Voldemort. The scene involving Voldemort's resurrection is one of the best in the series. There are some decent moments of light comedy, though nothing really humorous. It's also good to see some big actors like Gary Oldman return for a cameo. There are some problems, Newell is not Cuaron, he doesn't have his visual flair nor as good at handling comedy or strong emotions. Some scenes like when Harry returns with Cedric's body are too overacted. I would have also like to have seen more involving the bad days of Minstry of Magic repression.Goblet of Fire is a bridging story between the innocent story arc of the first three books, to the darker stories afterwards and the major arc involving Harry's destiny against Voldemort. Goblet of Fire is important in the series showing Voldemort's return and has the first major death. It came a surprise when I first read the book. There are also elements like the fact that Cedric and Victor were actually pretty decent people, you could care about them in the book. However, one element that I didn't like in both the film and the book is showing two 17-year-old men going out with two 14-year-old girls; it's not a positive message.Enjoyable fantasy.
Whilst Alfred Hitchcock is considered by many to be one of the best directors to walk the Earth and still has a wide fan base of out and new film fans, some of his early work is well, unremarkable. This was even commented by Paul Merton, in his documentary for BBC 4. Luckily Sabotage is one of Hitchcock's better British works.A spy ring is trying to attack London, hoping to distract Britain from there Foreign enemies. But their attack on London's power supply have failed to install and a sense of fear in the British public. Karl Verloc (Oscar Homolka), a cinema owner, is assigned a mission to place a bomb at Piccadilly Circus with the aim of causing fear and panic. But Verloc is being watched by Ted (John Loder), a police officer who is undercover working for a fruit and veg stool outside the cinema. Ted attempt to find out what's happening by becoming friendly with Verloc's wife (Sylvia Sidney) and her younger brother Stevie (Desmond Tester). But the two do not know anything. With the terrorist plot taking shape Verloc ends up making Stevie unwitting pawn to plant his bomb, and it becomes a race against time to stop him.There are some familiar Hitchcockian traits, such as the two main protagonists having a love-hate relationship before they warm to each other. But for the most part this was a well paced thriller about the need to stop a terrorist attack. There is tension and a good example that a thriller doesn't need a lot a action scenes to make it exciting. This is a big spoiler but it has to be said: some people have criticised the film for allowing the bomb to go off and people getting killed, including Hitchcock himself. But this gives the film an edge, and was revolutionarily for the time. It shows that people do get hurt and gives the film a more darker psychology. This would be good if it was done in a modern film.The acting in the film is pretty standard, not good or bad to report, but the characters do not have as much depth as they should. They was a moment when Karl Verloc showed doubt about his mission and that should have been played up more.Overall a pretty good thriller with a lot of potential. It is worth watching if you are interested in Hitchcock's work.
In Irish History, the Catholic Church had been responsible for destroying many young women's lives, by shaming them for having children out of wedlock and sentencing them to labour camps. Philomena Lee is one of them.Martin Sixsmith (Steven Coogan) is a former BBC correspondence in Russia and America and recently lost his job as a Government spin-doctor. Jobless and with little in his book on Russian History, Martin stumbles on the case of Philomena, a religious Irish woman who reveals she had a child as a teenager and was taken away to be adopted by an American family. Taking on the story Martin and Philomena go to Ireland and Washington D.C. to find Philomena's son.Philomena is an actor's movie, a showcase for top performances. Dench is excellent in the title role, giving a grounded, believable performance of a woman with modest tastes who is excited by the prospects of luxuries and gets the balance right between the dramatic and the lighter. Dench works well with Coogan, as he has some funny lines, but also shows a more serious, passionate side as he seeks justice for Philomena.Philomena is centred the relationship between Philomena and Martin and their differences. These differences manifest in a number ways, one being culturally as Philomena is a kind hearted woman, while Martin is a well educated snob, with an awkward sense of humour. Philomena is a religious woman and Martin is an atheist, leading the pair to clash over their ideologies, their views of God and how could someone be religious and forgiving after what happened to Philomena. Martin grows from someone seeking a good story to someone who wants to do the right thing, growing as a character.With religion clashing between both Philomena and Martin Philomena also looks at the institution of the Catholic Church. While there are some decent people within the Church and the personalities of people leading the church have changed, the Catholic Church as an organisation have covered-up many things that they have done and not are willing to face up to their liability and guilt. Yet, Philomena does showcase the difference between personal faith and organised corruption.The Queen's Stephen Frears directed Philomena and though he has a hit and miss record, he directs Philomena with competence. Frears is able to use a number of approaches, doing a mini remake of The Magdalene Sister with Sophie Kennedy Clark did an excellent job playing the young Philomena and hopefully has a long career ahead of her. Frears was able to blend the drama and comedy, bringing out wit of Coogan and Jeff Pope's script whilst keep the dramatic tone. Frears has some visual flourishes with film footage of Anthony growing up in America and brief look of gravestones of girls in the abbey.Philomena is a superbly acted movie, that Dench should be nominated for a number of awards. It is a movie a lot to say about personal relationships, the rights of a woman and a mother, faith and institutional failings and corruption.
Pirates of the Caribbean has be a very successful franchise, making Disney millions from the films, computer games, the theme park ride and other related projects. After the success of Curse of the Black Pearl Disney were quick to commission 2 sequels to be shot back-to-back, similar to what happened with the Matrix, and like to the Matrix and many of films from the summer of threequels, the third instalment fails.At World's End starts Lord Beckett (Tom Hollander) has taken control of the Caribbean, suspended the rights of the people and killed on mass people who were linked to piracy, including children in a dark opening scene. Lord Beckett had control of Davy Jones'(Bill Nighy) heart and thereby had control of the Flying Dutchman. Beckett uses Jones to hunt down as many pirates as their can. Elizabeth (Keira Knightley), Will (Orlando Bloom) and Captain Barbossa (Geoffrey Rush) seek assistance from Sao Feng (Chow Yun-Fat), a Chinese Pirate from Singapore. They need him because they need to free Jack Sparrow (Johnny Depp) from the Davy Jones' locker, seeing he died in the last film. Barbossa is also calling the Brethren Court of pirates, which include himself, Sao Feng and Jack Sparrow and have to discuss their last stand against the East India Company. The adventure takes out heroes to the Artic, the Caribbean, Singapore (despite the fact Singapore was no more then a fishing village until the British took over in 1819) and Davy Jones' Locker which is basically land of the dead. And seeing that they are all pirates everyone double crosses everyone else, with Will making deals with the East India Company, the East India Company makes deal with Sao Fung and Jack, etc... Subplots are also involved with this film, with Davy Jones' and Calypso's (Naomie Harris) love and heartbreak for each other, Jones' and Beckett's rivalry, Will need to marry Elizabeth and save his father and Jack wanting to kill Davy Jones so he could take over the Flying Dutchman.The plot is incompehenable, over-cooked and over-long. It makes no real scene and the whole point of a film like this is it should be fairly simple and just be fun. There is too much fat to the story that isn't needed.Pirates of the Caribbean is meant to be family film but with a running time of needly 3 hours, it is way too long. When I went to the cinema to see it their was even an intermission which hasn't happened since the days of great epics like Ben-Hur, Spactacus, Lawerence of Arabia and Barry Lyndon. With films the first and most important thing is a strong screenplay, a strong story. Without that it doesn't matter if the best director and best actors are involved. When At World's End started without a finished script which is a warning sign. Even if a film had re-writes whilst it was filming, the basics of the story should be there. The film was a mess. The film also has some dark scenes, like the hanging scene and a violence death. I have nothing against dark theme in films but it needs to be done right. First most of the film is too light-hearted and suffers from the same problem that I had with Robin Hood Prince of Thieves which was the filmmakers didn't know which way to go. Secondly is Pirates is meant to be family film and needs to do dark themes just right. Dead Man's Chest was criticised for being racist towards native tribes in the Caribbean. However, I thought the film was very racist towards Chinese and Indians, especially the Chinese, with male characters looking like drawings from the late 19th Century of the 'yellow peril'. There had horrible teeth, tattoos, thin goatees and long claw like nails. The film had to be cut by ten minutes in China because of this and personally I don't blame them. The Indian pirates were also portrayed in a stereotypical way, but their role was minor.At World's End also makes out that pirates were really freedom and even in a way pseudo-Marxists, fighting for their freedom against the evil multi-national of the East India Company. This from Disney which is a massive multi-national with business interests in films, TV, toys, theme parks and so many other things and Jerry Bruikheimer who is a Republican supporter.Now to the acting. Johnny Depp was good, he enjoys the role of Jack Sparrow and allows him to let his hair down. Geoffrey Rush was over-acting and he seem to be enjoying himself and I don't blame him. Chow Yun-Fat obviously did the film for the paid-cheque and the chance to be in a Hollywood film, not because he thought the material was good. He was not in the film for very long anyway. Naomie Harris offered a weird performance but at its good to see her trying to break into Hollywood. Bill Nighy was very good and is the best performance in the film. I personally thought that Tom Hollander lacked the menace to be the villain and Bill Nighy should have retaited the role within the film. Finally Keira Knightley and Orlando Bloom were too wooden and unbelievable. Keira becomes the leader of the pirates but would you honestly believe that with her Braveheart style speech. But at least Keira is easy on the eye.The Special Effects and action are well done, the computer graphics people will not struggle to find work and action is Gore Verbinski and Jerry Bruckheimer do best. That part of the film was entertaining, especially the final battle scene.The music by Hans Zimmer was brilliant and his score is a trademark of the film. Zimmer is one of the best music men in the business.This film isn't worth knocking yourself out for. A fourth film is one the way and Gore Verbinski has announced that he wouldn't be directing, so I would except too much.
As the saying goes, War is hell and apparently so is adapting teen novels. For every success like The Hunger Games, we get a movie much like The Host. Based on what is considered one of the greatest sci-fi novels ever written, Gavin Hood delivers an entertaining mix of The Hunger Games, Harry Potter and Starship Troopers, with his adaptation of Ender's Game.50 years after Earth repelled an invasion from an ant like alien race called the Formics, Earth's society has become highly militarised, fearing a second invasion. From a young age, children are taught using computer games to develop military skills and fight a future war. These children and teenagers minds have become so advanced and intelligent, that they're able to process data and comprehend much more than most adults can.Andrew "Ender" Wiggin (Asa Butterfield) is a skilled cadet at the International Fleet and is being groomed by Colonel Graff (Harrison Ford) to be the great leader to win the war against the Formics. Ender is taken to Battle School, where Ender rapidly rises up the ranks. Though Ender's tactical ability is never in doubt, he has an internal crisis between his violent and humane sides.Ignoring the controversy involving Orson Scott Card and his vile views, Ender's Game is well structured sci-fi movie. Director Gavin Hood has shown a massive improvement to his previous effort X-Men Origins: Wolverine, with improved storytelling, substance and special effects. Hood assembles a dream cast with the likes of Butterfield, Ford, Viola Davis, Hailee Steinfeld and Sir Ben Kingsley just to name a few. As expected from a cast of that calibre, most of the cast give strong performances, centred around Butterfield performance, given a difficult role of someone who is emotionally cold, highly intelligent and has to show what he is feeling with subtle looks: and Butterfield does it well, showing his talent at his young age. The character of Ender himself does come off as someone who is simply perfect at everything he does.The screenplay does keep to the structure of a novel, as it is easy to tell when chapters would have start: we go from Ender seemingly being kicked out of school, Ender getting emitted to Battle School, Ender joining a team, Ender commanding his own team, etc... Ender's Game sticks very much to its themes about this military society and the effects on the youth. Throughout the movie there are constant themes of manipulation, from Colonel Graff's manipulation of Ender, Ender's manipulation of other students and the culture of competition within teams and against teams. This theme also leads to the emphasis and expectations placed upon Ender, the effects on him and the doubts it might cause, as we look at an extreme of overbearing education.Hood improves massively as an action director and has always shown what he is capable with the dramatic elements. The stand out set pieces are the zero gravity training sequences, as it showcases the evolution of the students and their ability for tactics in a 3D environment, accompanied with Steve Jablonsky's soaring score where he uses his Inception style horns. The final battle is a tense and well crafted sequence with excellent CGI.For a movie based on a popular and critically acclaimed novel that is revered by many, it felt like some parts of the story were only given the briefest look. Moments that were only hinted at were Ender's older brother's violent tendencies and it is only near the end when there is a debate about the Formics and their motives. But Card himself was a producer, so he must have signed off or approved the changes.While Ender's Game does have solid action set-pieces, the movie is at its best focusing on its themes and character development, working as a moral tale and a compelling sci-fi story. For a movie that will be shoehorned into the teen genre, it is a going to be one of the strongest because of the strength of the story, performances and source material.
J.J. Abrams had done it, he actually made Star Trek exciting compared to all the other Trek media that has existed before hand. This is the Star Trek film for all non-Trekkies, including myself.After the success of the prequels/re-boots of Batman and James Bond, Hollywood wonder boy J.J. Abrams suggested the same treatment for Star Trek which had become no more then an object of parody in shows like Futurama and films like Galaxy Quest. Abrams has just kick-started the franchise.In a alternative time-line a Romulan spaceship travels back in time and attacks a Federation ship. George Kirk sacrifices himself and saves 800, including his wife and new-born son James (Chris Pine). The film fast forwards and focuses on both James and Spock (Zachary Quinto), who rebels in there own way. James gets involved in petty crime and fights, whilst Spock is discriminated against because he is half-human and joins Star-fleet to prove a point. James Kirk was recruited by Captain Pike (Bruce Greenway), who knew his father. Whilst in the training academy and working on USS Enterprise Kirk and Spock entered into conflict and took a dislike to each other. Spock dislikes Kirk's attitude acting before thinking and rebelling against orders, whilst Kirk dislikes Spock's cold and heart-less way of working. The USS Enterprise is called into action after Vulcan, Spock's home planet, is attacked by the Romulans. Captain Nero (Eric Bana), hates Spock, blaming him for the destruction of his home planet. He sets out to destroy Vulcan and Earth. After the destruction of Vulcan and capture of Captain Pike, both Kirk and Spock wrestle for command of the Enterprise.What J.J. Abrams does is treat Star Trek as an action film. The action is exciting, and done with great CGI and editing. It makes Star Trek a good watch. He makes the film a bit like Star Wars with the style of space based action, to fights with the Romulans, to the different types of alien species. The scenes at the academy also reminded me of the good film Starship Troopers. Abrams wanted to make Star Trek accessible to non-Trekkies and does it by restarting with the characters and the world it was set in. There is a good cast. Chris Pine is an up-and-comer in Hollywood, who plays Kirk as an arrogant kid but at the same time does have a charge in impersonate William Shatner. Zachary Quinto is famous from Heroes and does well as the cold Spock. Karl Urban from Lord of the Rings, is good as Kirk's friend Bones. Simon Pegg is given too little screen time as Scotty. The excellent Eric Bana does well as the villain and Zoe Saldana is a good choice for Uhuru, both as an actress and looks wises.The film is basically a set up for the new franchise, much like X-Men and Batman Begins were; but it is cleverly written by Roberto Orci and Alex Kurtzman (Alias, Transformers, The Island). They use science fiction, action and comedy well. There are some in-jokes I didn't get but Trekkies will like it.The film did drag some times and get a little slow. I also did not like Anton Yelchin's comedic Russian accent (which is surprising seeing he is from a Russian background). I thought we had moved on from the 60s where taking the mike of the Russians was more acceptable.But the film is exciting and gripping from it first moments.3 out of 5.
Animal Kingdom is a very confidence, well made debut by David Michôd, a gritty, realistic film set in the Melbourne underworld.Joshua, AKA J (James Frecheville), is a 17-year-old man whom mum has just died of an heroin overdose. He turns to the only family he has, his grandmother, "Smurf" (Jacki Weaver) and his uncles, Craig (Sullivan Stapleton) and Darren (Luke Ford (surprisingly he got work after The Mummy: Tomb of the Dragon Emperor)). The uncles run a crime family that have robbed banks and deals drugs, but there world starts to fall apart when the police start hounding them, shooting them and strength starts to fall apart. It gets worst when J's other uncle, "Pope" (Ben Mendelsohn) rejoins the family after hiding and the police after him. J is slowly brought into the family's criminal activities, but a senior police detective, Nathan Leckie (Guy Pearce) believes he could turn the young man after the shooting of two uniformed officers.What makes Animal Kingdom work is it gritty, down to Earth nature of the film. This is a film set in the unglamourous parts of Melbourne which is a really nice city. Crimes are quick and messy and that there was no glory in the criminal world. Emotions are real and you could easily believe in the events that happen in the film could happen in the real life. Michôd made a slow burning film where everything unfolds gradually; it was a film about characters, particularly J and about a dysfunctional family.The acting is great, it is really nature that you end up feeling like you are watching real people, not just actors. Frechville was brilliant as a kid in over his head and forced into a dark world with his conscious, family and the police pulling him in different directions. They was a really brilliant scene that looked real when he is crying a bathroom, with Michôd and Frechville not holding bad; J being unable to talk and snot and spit going all over the place. Weaver was nominated for an Oscar and there was a reason why she was nominated: her performance was great as a woman who is on the surface seemingly a nice woman who wants to help her grandson, but really a cunning and manipulative person who is very smooth operator. Think Peggy Mitchell who is less aggressive, more intelligent and played by a much better actress. Pearce is always good and his character could be read as two ways, one that he is simply a decent cop trying to get a young man out of a dirty world or a cop wanting to take down a family so badly that he would do anything to achieve it. Ford was actually good in this film (again, a surprise to anyone who saw Mummy 3) as one of the more sympathetic members of the family and Mendelsohn is a truly slimy piece of work. All the characters are well round, developed and believable. All of them have a realistic amount good and bad in them. It was an excellent job by Michôd as a writer and the actors.My one real criticism of the film is for a crime film I expected to see more crime being committed in the film. I know that Michôd was trying to make the film more realistic but it would be easy enough to show say a quick bank robbery with the family pointing gun, shouting, swearing and taking the money quickly or drug dealing or running prostitutes or brothels and show a wider network. But Animal Kingdom was still a very good film.4 out of 5.
Roald Dahl is an incredible children's author and his books are very British affairs, with a bit of his Norwegian backgrounds and legends thrown in. So it was worry that one of his novels was being turned into a American film, with an American director and cast. But fortunately it is a good film.Mr. Fox (George Clooney) is a successful hunter and poacher of farm animals and he has amazing abilities avoiding traps. But when his wife, Mrs. Fox (Meryl Streep) is pregnant, Mr. Fox gives up his hunting ways for his family. Two Years later (twelve fox years), Mr. Fox is bored with his life so decides to go for one last big score, robbing the three meaning farmers in the valley, Boggis, Bunce and Bean. But by robbing them Bean (Michael Gambon) leads the farmers one a hunt, doing everything they can to kill Mr. Fox and his family. Whilst this adventure and heist is going on, Mr. Fox's son Ash (Jason Schwartzman) develops a rivalry with his cousin Kristofferson (Eric Anderson) because of his intelligence and athletic ability and Mr. Fox ending up favouring him over his own son.The director Wes Anderson is one of the darlings of American indie cinema. He wrote and shot Fantastic Mr. Fox almost like an indie film, particularly the family drama about a son trying to prove himself to his father and a man (or this case a fox) having to fight against his nature. The way some of the sequences are shot and move reminded me of classic platformer games, particularly Sonic the Hedgehog and the undergrounds scenes showing the network of tunnels was like the first version of Worms.Fantastic Mr. Fox works as a heist film with Mr. Fox coming up with plans to rob the farmers, who is arrogant about his abilities and ignores his family because of his exploits. They is a lot of humour in the film involving the lines and dialogue and some visual gags: but this was not a film that does not have as much appeal to young children as it should have. There are still gags that children will like though. A running gag in the film is Bean giving orders over a walkie-talkie. There is a fight between Mr. Fox and Rat (Willem Dafoe) which was skilfully done when they are jumping up in the air in the darkness with lightening flashing so it was quick still images.The animation style is style and on the trailers it did look weak. But it worked in the film; the designs of all the animals and humans are detailed and I do have a soft-spot for stop-motion animation. Stop-motion allows for more real world physic and detailed characters and set designs, like the painting of the badgers. The movement is fluid, like in the platformer style sequences, but other scenes were crude and not that well done, like the digging, the flooding and the dancing looked like a student film working on a limited budget . One thing I also don't understand is why the animals are American (i.e, opossums and beavers) let the town looks like an old fashioned English town.Wes Anderson shot the film almost like a live action film, obviously directing how he knows best. It just small touches like the way the camera zooms into towards a face or the wide shots, giving the film a extra in it's cinematography.There is an excellent voice cast and both Wes Anderson and Spike Jonze with Where the Wild Things Are actually got their voice actors together and performed the film and get a more natural performance out the actors. The traditional way is for the actor to stand in a room and say the line in about 25 different ways with the director and editor picks the best version. Many of the actors in Fantastic Mr. Fox are natural comic performances and many of them had good chemistry. Clooney leads the film well and Bill Murray and Wallace Wolodarsky had a very good, funny supporting roles.Finally there is a good soundtrack in this film, with songs from the Rolling Stones and the Beach Boys, to banjo music and the playful score by Alexandre Desplat.
Paths of Glory is good early example of Stanley Kubrick's ability as a writer and director. It also offers Kirk Douglas' best performance.Paths of Glory was based on a novel by Humphrey Cobb, a novel with a strong anti-war stance. The film is during the First World War and the French attempted an unsuccessful attack on a well defended German position. General Mireau (George Macready) who ordered the attack was looking for promotion and when the attack fails he ordered the artillery to attack his own side which they refused to do. He was so angry that he wanted 100 men shot for their failure. It was then decided that 3 men were going to used as examples. Colonel Dax (Kirk Douglas) was the officer who led the attack in the field. He ended up leading because he was threaten with removal from his position if he didn't lead it. After the attack he representatives his soldiers in a show trial. He was a lawyer in civilian life and he makes a good case, but he was fighting the French military establishment.The film is shows that the trenches were unpleasant and that the French General held the rank-and-file troops and life in general with little rearguard. It had such impact that it was banned in France and Spain when it was under Franco. It is still banned in countries that are under military rule. The film does not drag out the story and tells it very quickly: its running time is one hour and twenty minutes. Great if you got a short attention span. The film has some good scenes and Kubrick like always pays great attention to details. You get to see the horrors of the trenches compared to the luxury that the French generals lived in. They are good performances in the film, but it is Kirk Douglas who is the most noticeable in the film. He last scene with General Broulard is particularly good. At the end there is also a nice little German song by Christiane Harlan, who latter becomes Stanley's wife in real life.Paths of Glory is worth watching, no matter what your politics and what your thoughts of Kubrick and Douglas.
It has been a long ride for the Bond series, since the creation of the character there have been 15 novels by Ian Fleming, plenty of spin-off novels, comics, cartoons and video games and the film series is now 50 years old. There have been an extraordinary 23 official films, but few as extraordinary as Skyfall.After a mission goes wrong in Istanbul, MI6 loses a hard drive containing a list of all NATO agents within terrorist cells, and James Bond (Daniel Craig) is presumed Killed in Action. M's (Judi Dench) competence is questioned and the Chairman of the Intelligence and Security Committee, Gareth Mallory (Ralph Fiennes) plans to replace her. Making matters worse, a cyber-terrorist targets MI6 and M personally, getting a hold of the list and causing an explosion within MI6's headquarters. An older, more damaged Bond then returns to duty to serve Queen and Country, having to prove he is in shape before going on the search to find the terrorist.Skyfall is a long-awaited film thanks to MGM's financial woes, but it delivers. Skyfall takes a darker approach as we've seen with the past couple films and it's very character driven, yet Sam Mendes and the screenwriters still provide a massive injection of fun. Like most Bond films, Skyfall starts with an incredible chase sequence in Istanbul and continues strongly from then on, including a very stylish silhouette fight in Shanghai. The action scenes sequences were pristinely shot and practical effects were at the forefront.A challenge for the Bond series has always been real-world relevance. The series has faced down all challenges, from the end of the Cold War to the War on Terror. Skyfall tackles the changing nature of espionage. MI6 is no longer the shadowy organisation that the British government denied existed; it has to face the realities of the 24-hour media age we live in and the democratic accountability that incurs.The nature of the threats have changed, Bond faces a cyber-terrorist and along with the new Q, both could cause more damage than Bond can. In the real world, we have seen what Anonymous is capable of and seen how the Stuxnet worm affected the Iranian nuclear program. But there is always a need for people in the field to investigate. As M says, she is scared of this new world because many of the West's enemies are now faceless and nationless, and this element can work in the series' favour. Versatility has always been a Bond hallmark, which is why it is so enduring.Skyfall also goes full circle for Bond, as the filmmakers reintroduce popular characters, gadgets and humour. In Casino Royale, Bond is a young man who is bold, arrogant and reckless but can get the job done; in Skyfall, Craig is playing an older Bond who is both physically and emotionally vulnerable.The idea of an older Bond was briefly touched on in the unofficial film Never Say Never Again, but that was more to accommodate a 52-year-old Sean Connery being in the role. In Skyfall there is actual thematic reasons behind it. Craig gives another excellent performance, cementing his reputation as both a great actor and a great Bond, and the script treats him more as a character than an archetype. Along with M's character arch, the film tackles a theme of facing the past so it can be cleansed.The casting of Javier Bardem was a coup for the series and we as Bond fans are rewarded with a great villain. Bardem makes out Raoul Silva to be a man with seemingly camp mannerisms, but the master planner has a very sinister delivery. He has a complex, tragic background but he is not like other Bond villains looking for control, world domination, money or even self-preservation: he simply wants revenge.Skyfall is a great milestone to celebrate Bond's 50th birthday on film, and the Easter eggs for fans aren't overbearing, but rather nice touches. The last anniversary Bond film, Die Another Day, was a disaster and regarded as one of the worst Bond films. It felt like it had to keep referencing the previous films. Skyfall features a few major references to previous Bond films: Bond getting injured (The World is Not Enough), Bond faking his death (You Only Live Twice), the gun that can only work with Bond's palm print (Licence to Kill) and a similar villain to the one in Goldeneye. But these are references you would want to find, not being forced upon you.Skyfall felt very much like end of one chapter and the start of a new one. Mendes and the writers were able to reintroduce many tropes of the Bond series and still give them a modern and believable twist. For a film that has a 143-minute running time (the second longest Bond film), Skyfall never felt like it dragged and it was an exciting, entertaining film.Please visit www.entertainmentfuse.com
No Optimus, I don't have a problem with you, it is the way Michael Bay directs the films you are in I have lost faith in. After the mess that was Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen, many people involved, including Bay and Shia LaBeouf admitting it was bad and wanted to make amends. Dark of the Moon is an obvious improvement on Revenge of the Fallen, but lacks the claim of the first film.Starting with a montage of how the Space Race to the Moon between America and the Soviet Union was to get an alien spacecraft that crashed on the dark side of the Moon. Soon we discover that the Soviet tried to use Cyberonian technology that resulted into the Chernobyl meltdown. Optimus Prime (Peter Cullen) and the Autobots bring back Sentinel Prime (Leonard Nimoy) and revive him. But more important Sam Witwicky (LaBeouf) has a new British girlfriend, Carly (Rosie Huntington-Whitely) and is looking for a job, which he gets with a aerospace company lead by John Malkovich. On the Deceptions front they are killing humans that worked for them and trying to revive all of the Autobots Pillars to make a sky bridge and turn Earth into a new Cybertron: sounding very much like a plot from a two part episode of Doctor Who.One of the first big improvements is the removable of the Twins, the two annoying, racial stereotypes who should have been given a unpleasant death. During Revenge of the Fallen I was pretty much cheering for the Deceptions to win, showing how much Bay failed with this 'lovely comic relief' characters! Megan Fox is also gone because we all know of the aftermath of calling Bay, Hitler. Huntington-Whitely replaces her and Bay showing that Transformers does not need actors. Huntington-Whitely's performance has been criticised but I personally thought she was passable. She is better then Fox who is a really bad actress and her character is more charming and likable, but at the same time not going to win over feminists because Bay leers over Huntington-Whitely's body and she is just a damsel in distress. The comedy is toned down and the plot is a little more focused. The other new feature is 3D, Bay being won over to shoot the film with the technology. It has been called the best 3D since Avatar, Avatar still has the best 3D in a film so far. There were times in the film when it was not in 3D and the affect was pointless: it only really worked during the slow-mo scenes.The action is really strong, shaky cam is not used as much and there are excellent set pieces, particularly with Optimus Prime using a sword and an axe. We do get robot on robot action and Bay's love for military porn. But like the previous films Bay focuses on the humans, the characters people do not care about. Optimus gets more screen time and you got to love it when he kicks butt. But the film suffers when he is not around and like during the Battle of Chicago he does not have that big a role and Bay focuses on the soldiers and even when Optimus is in the middle of a big fight Bay makes as watch LaBeouf in a fist fight. Like the previous two films the special effects are excellent and Steve Jablonsky does give a great score, obviously influenced by Inception.Bay also still sees the need to have bad comedy, whether it is in the form of annoying and pointless characters like Wheelie and Brains, or Ken Jeung role as a guy who worked with the Deceptions and ends up being made out to be a strange weirdo, ending up with a gay joke, oh high class wit. I would have made Transformers to be a little more light-hearted and tongue in cheek, but still pretty serious, Spider-man and Iron Man would have been great models to follow. Dark of the Moon is too long and should have been a fun two hour film, it focuses on a human characters too much, including a boring and unfunny montage of Sam going to job interviews. Many scenes could have been cut out. I also have a problem with the swearing because a lot of families went to see it and the film did use strong language. Compare it to other PG-13/12A releases like the new Batmans, the X-Men series, the new Bonds, etc, swearing is toned down and kept to a minimum.Frances McDormand was a fine addition as the Director of NEST and John Turturro is a lot less annoying as Agent Simmons, given a more serious role. But the role of Shockwave was marketed as if he was going to be the main bad guy, but Dark of the Moon suffers the 'Angel' like X-Men: the Last Stand did, making a character has a bigger role then they really did.To me Dark of the Moon felt like a end of a trilogy and I would not be surprised if the series has a mini-reboot. If it does I hope the filmmakers make the Autobots the main characters and the humans as support, not the other way round. If Dark of the Moon was the sequel after the first film I properly be a lot more positive towards it. The action is fun, it is escapism, but there are too many problems.
You got to love James Cameron, writer and director of two classic films, Terminator 1 and 2. The man has a cult following and fanboys the world over exploding with exciting before the release of Avatar. Aliens is his other great film, a sequel to the excellent Ridley Scott film Alien.Set 57 years after the events of Alien, Ripley (Sigourney Weaver), is found in floating space still in a deep space. She expected to found in six weeks. Many people within the company disbelieve her story about the Alien and unhappy that she destroyed an expensive ship. Ridley learns that her daughter had died at the age of 66. Her pilot's license is revoked and she can only work as a warehouse loader. What she finds out that's more distressing is the LV-426 has been colonised by humans for 20 years and engineers were terraforming it for future generations. The colonialists hasn't had any contact with the aliens. However, during her time on the company spaceship Ripley is told that the company had lost contact with the colony. She is asked by the company representative Carter Burke (Paul Reiser), to go with him and Colonial Marines to investigate what happens. When the Marines arrive they discover that the whole base is deserted with no signs of live. That is until a young girl, Newt (Carrie Henn), the only survivor who had been hiding. She quickly develops a bond with Ripley. When the Marines discover a nest of the aliens they find out they are in the fight that seems impossible against an almight enemy.Within the Marines is a tough team of experienced soldiers, but are led by a weak, inexperience lieutenant (William Hope), an tough sergeant (Al Matthews), Corporal Hicks (Michael Biehn), joker Private Hudson (Bill Paxton), stereotypical tough Latino Private Vasquez (Jenette Goldstein) and android and Science Officer Bishop (Lance Henriksen). All these characters have their own personalities and you get to care about them as individuals.One of the reasons James Cameron is such a great writer/director is because his focus has always been on story and character. This is what happened in his Terminator films. In Aliens he expands on the Ripley character, showing she is suffering from psychological stress and suffers tragedy, but also becomes a tougher leader and has a surrogate mother/daughter relationship with Newt (one of the key points of the film). Paul Reiser was able to show the duality of his character, making him seem to be a nice guy, an ally to Ripley but quickly shows his true colours when the mission starts. Hicks forms a close friendship to Ripley and show his leadership skills. Even minor characters like Apone, Vasquez and Hudson are interesting and grow on you. I personally see the character of Lieutenant Gorman as a criticism of young career officers in the army who haven't proved themselves and get run missions they are not ready for. Newt is a great character, a sweet young girl who suffers a lot but still gets to act like a child. A great little moment is when she tries on a soldier's helmet.Alien is film that seemed it didn't need a sequel, having Ripley survive the alien and killing it. But James Cameron thought he could do a sequel, and he did it very well. He was able to expand on the characters and the world she lives in. Humans are expanding in the universe and colonisation is done by private companies, like the East India Company in the 18th Century. It is also a criticism of multi-national corporations who only think about profits regardless of human life and a general criticism of the weapons industry. James Cameron personally see the film as a metaphor for the Vietnam War, with American soldiers seeming the stronger with better weapons, but are fighting an unseen enemy in a foreign environment. He also sees it as innocent soldiers going off to fight for business interests. James Cameron also sets up a excellent sci-fi world, with great set-design and special-effects. James Cameron shows what he is best at, sci-fi and action, with great battle scenes. But he also has some great motions of horror for horror-fans. With the writing of the film, there is a strong simple plot, excellent dialogue, which is well-delivered by the cast, important character development and some classic one-liners.There is a good cast, Sigourney Weaver grows even more into her role. Michael Biehn is excellent under James Cameron, and many of the supporting roles are filled by fine actors. Carrie Henn was an excellent child actress. James Cameron likes to have strong female characters in his film, which is always good to see. Cameron also brought in his other major theme, nuclear war. It always plays a part in his films.Aliens also has an excellent score by James Horner, which adds to the atmosphere of the film and easily his best work.Aliens is my favourite of the series. A must see for action, sci-fi, horror and James Cameron fans.
Emilio Estevez is properly the lesser known member of Sheen family, even though he starred in The Breakfast Club and the Mighty Ducks. However whilst a talented actor he is also a writer and director and with Bobby he assembled an assemble cast including Anthony Hopkins, William H. Macy, Martin Sheen, Elijah Wood, Shia LaBeouf, Christian Slater, Lindsay Lohan, Sharon Stone et al.Bobby is set on the day of the California Primacy in 1968, with Senator Robert Kennedy on the edge of being elected to be the Democratic Presidential Candidate. America is going through a period of social upheaval: the country is in an unpopular war in Vietnam, the civil rights movement is in full swing and drugs culture is growing. At the Ambassador Hotel in Los Andreas Estevez explores these issues of the 60s in a microcosmic of the world. There is a young couple played by Wood and Lohan who are marrying so that he can avoid being sent to Vietnam, a Latino busboy Jose (Freddy Rodriguez) who is an example of America's growing immigrant population, the Hotel Manager played by Macy who sees himself as a great liberal supporter of RFK but his attitude towards women is not so enlightened, the kitchen manager (Slater) who has racist attitudes towards Mexicans and two campaign workers (LaBeouf and Brian Geraghty) skipping knocking on doors to take some powerful LSD.Estevez makes a bold film about the 60s, and does a good job judging all the themes and characters in the film. He has a keen eye for direction, getting the look of the 60s about right, with good cinematography and fine camera movements. There is a good soundtrack of 60s songs and he does try and be ambitious playing the song Initials (from Hair) when the campaign workers are stoned and see imagines of Vietnam. This is a film about the 60s, a period of turmoil and even though there are political issues like racisms this is film is more a social piece then a political film. There are some parallels to more contemporary issues like American treatment of Latino immigrants and how there are discriminated against, particularly because of the recent laws passed in Arizona whilst doing the jobs no one else wants, African American still live in in-povertised areas and also discriminated against and America involved in a popular war. Kennedy offers hope but Estevez only shows him in achieve footage or out of focus: he was not a main player in the film.There is a great cast and good acting throughout. But a problem with the film is that there are so many characters that not all of theme are developed and not many of them are well developed. There were characters that could have been easily cut, like Sheen and Helen Hunt's characters who add nothing to the film and should have cut (and the two did their best and I like Sheen as an actor). The same can be said about Anthony Hopkins who was a real weak link in the film. Estevez needed to streamline his acting and directing.Overall an ambitious film that is underrated.
Mission: Impossible - Ghost Protocol was essentially Mission: Impossible - Resurrect Tom Cruise and because of critical praise and the box office returns it currently has it seems to be mission accomplished.After a missions goes wrong in Budapest the IMF has to break Ethan Hunt (Tom Cruise) out from a Russian prison because they had lost Russian nuclear mission codes and need to get information about nuclear extremist "Cobalt" from the Kremlin. But when the IMF team are famed for bombing the Kremlin by Kurt Hendricks (Michael Nyqvist), a man who wants to start a nuclear war. America and Russia are on the brink of war and when the director the IMF (Tom Wilkinson) is killed, Ethan and his team, Julie (Paula Patton), Benji (Simon Pegg) and Brandt (Jeremy Renner) have to go rouge to stop Hendricks.Ghost Protocol is certainly a fun, action film with great car chases (the BMW i8 was absolutely glorious), fight scenes and stunts like the climbing of Burj Khalifa, where you really got to feel the height and the wind (which is scary to because I have a fear of heights). This is a film that uses it international setting even, using related music, for whether it was in Russia, the Middle East and India. The locations made scene to the context of the film, countries that are important or emerging on the national scene. Brad Bird made the leap from animation with good moment of success, delivering a fast paced film with a lot of humour and great action. The only real problem was the CGI was actually pretty poor and looked cheap: even more surprising because of his great work at Pixar. Lets hope Bird's next film is his long awaited film about the 1906 San Francisco Earthquake.Whilst Cruise leads this film, a strength of Ghost Protocol is that the rest of the team play more of a role and this film is not the Tom Cruise show. This will help the series distinguish itself from Bond and Bourne. They are all got there own skills and show themselves to be more capable as fighters and agents. They are smart and resource and Bird does get a very interesting cast. Cruise who is a competent action star, showing he can fight, do stunts and is willing to get hurt, which makes Ethan more fallible and you could actually route for him more. You felt the pain. Renner is an emerging actor, getting the big roles he should have gotten 10 years ago. He is more convincing when he is able to be a hard action man then the seemingly weak, nervous character thrown in over his head. Simon Pegg is given a bigger role and his character was the comic relief with good jokes and interaction but he is not a fool, he is competent and can at least handle himself, even if he is the weakest fighter. But the rest of the cast is made up from more independent film stars, Paula Patton (Precious), Michael Nyqvist (the Millennium Trilogy), Lea Seydoux (Inglorious Basterds), Anil Kapoor (Slumdog Millionaire) and they were all very strong. Patton was great as the female member of the team, hard, resourceful but also has some demons and it was great fist fight she has with Seydoux (who has a small but fun part). Nyqvist is as a good a villain Phillip Seymour Hoffman but that is because is such a great actor and Nyqvist was made out to be a mad man with a crack pot idea. But he is physically tougher and could actually handle himself in a fight. But he is not as menacing or had great moments like Hoffman had.Whilst Pegg did provide good comedy I think Ghost Protocol did over use it. I hope that the fifth film can takes a darker turns and be more serious, showing innocent people getting hurt or agents that we know getting killed. Also the plot itself possibly would have fitted more if it was set during the Cold War or was able China and America heading towards war (but it would have also been more like Tomorrow Never Dies and X-Men: First Class). Plus the team do over use advance technology throughout the mission, particularly because the team was meant to have no support from outside. It would have shown the stakes were even higher if they did not have the resources they normally have. And the product placement did go a little overboard, particularly the use of Apple products.Overall I think M:I III is a better film overall, Ghost Protocol is a enjoyable film, filled with entertaining set pieces and at least shows some consistence for the series, acknowledging events from the previous film and kept a similar tone, world and feel. It also shows that IMF stays on as a similar intelligence body.
Paycheck is a very poor film. It has a weak story and was poorly written and plotted. It also has unremarkable actor, direction or action. Paycheck is based on a short story by Philip K. Dick. Some of his stories have turned into good films such as Blade Runner, Total Recall and Minority Report, but also some turkeys have also been made like Next and this film. I have only read one Philip K. Dick novel, The Man in the High Castle, which was a good read.The story of Paycheck is Michael Jenkins (Ben Affleck), is an engineer and offered the chance to work on a secret project for millions of dollars. However, after the project his memory is erased and insert of leaving himself money he leaves an envelope of random object and he has to figure out what they mean. This first problem with the film was that Jenkins was working a machine that could see into the future and he used it to see into his future and therefore the audiences knows he is in no real danger. The second problem is that is there is no explanation throughout the film. In the film they show that in the future there was going to be a war between a multi-national company and the United States. There is no reason to this or any other plans from the villains which leaves massive plot holes. An good writer would have learnt not to do this from day one. John Woo was also a poor choice to direct this film. Ridley Scott, Paul Verhoeven and Steven Spielberg all had grant epic visions about the world Dick would have set his books, whilst Woo choose to set the film in a contemporary world that did not fit with the story. The sci-fi element was played down, but the action in the film was poor, which was Woo's speciality. Woo hasn't made a good film since Face/off in 1997. The casting was also poor for this film. Ben Affleck is a poor actor and I have enjoyed watching his acting career decline from Armageddon to Pearl Harbour, to Daredevil, to Jersey Girl and Smoking Aces'. He has now turned to directing which will be interesting. Uma Thurman was pregnant during filming and this was clear. She is also a very hit-and-miss actress and I believe that it was only Quentin Tarantino that has got the best out of her. Paul Giamatti was also added to film just for comedic relief which most of his roles then to be.It just best to avoiding watching this movie. It will just leave you feeling frustrated.
I personally do not like Con Air, not seeing it as a good movie. I think that its premise it is too silly and I did not believe it as a film.The plot of Con Air is that ex-US Ranger and war veteran Cameron Poe (Nicholas Cage) protects his pregnant wife from two drunks, and accidentally kills one of them. He pleads manslaughter, but gets the maximum sentence. He ends up going to the maximum security prison San Quetin in California. When Cameron serves his sentence he goes on a prison plane back to Alabama, with dangerous criminals including terrorists, murderers and rapists. One criminal, Cyrus The Virus (John Malkovich) leads the criminals to over take the plane and negotiate with the FBI to let them go to a foreign country and disappear. But Cameron is on hand to help stop this, and works with the FBI to get the plane back on track.I don't have a great knowledge of the American legal and prison system, but I find that some of the aspect of the film too silly. Examples are that Cameron gets the maximum sentence considering his case, that the US prison system would transport a lot of prisons on plane, which in itself is dumb, but also use idiotic that there were only a few guards, with no major weapons. The plot of the film too implausible. I don't see why the Americans needed to transport the prisoners, and why when the prisoners took over the plane that the Americans didn't just send the Air Force to shot it down. I know that it wouldn't have made a very romantic film, that's what would have really happened. There is a lot that happens in this film that feels that you need to suspend belief to accept it, like the plane clash landing in Las Vegas. The writing is very weak, I did not believe in the film and some aspects of the story are force, especially Cameron's relationship with his daughter. I also doubt that the writer did much research for this film and it may as well have been written by a computer. The biggest problem was the character Cyrus the Virus and John Malkovich pretty much stole the show. He was good in this film and I thought that he should have been used as a villain in another film. It is high to sympathy with some of the characters, considering the crimes they committed. But at the same time Cyrus is the best think in this film There was also a good cast in this film, having good actors like Ving Rhames, Steve Buscemi, John Cusack, Danny Trejo and of course Malkovich. But that is not enough to save this film.All in all, one to miss.
Between the period making Rocky V and Rocky Balboa Sylvester Stallone struggled how to defy himself as an actor, making a range of movies from Cliffhanger to Get Carter to Stop or Mum Will Shoot. Cop Land is easily the best quality film in this period.The town of Garrison, New Jersey is a town build for NYPD officers to escape New York life. Freddy Heflin (Sylvester Stallone) is the sheriff of the town who is friends with many of the cops in the town. But he is also a man who wanted to be one of the them, but can't because of an injury he received when he was a teenager.In New York a young hero cop Murray "Superbad" Babitch (Michael Rapaport) ends up killing two African-American teens after they shoot his car. Fearing that he was going to be arrested and be considered responsible for a racist incident Murray fakes his death thanks to his corrupt uncle Ray Donlan (Harvey Keitel).Internal Affair officer Lt. Moe Tilden (Robert De Niro) is assigned the cast to investigate the crime and suspects major links between Ray and Mafia. He tries to get Freddy on side but Freddy is torn between his duties as an officer and his loyalty to his friends.Writer/Director James Mangold fit's a lot of story and subplots in a 1 hour 45 minute package. If anything he is a bit too ambitious for its own good. At times it felt like he was adapting a novel but had to cut some stuff to make the film fit. In a way it meanders a little bit. But for the most part Mangold makes sure that Cop Land was interesting, fast paced thriller that does not treat the audience like an idiot, even if it does have a few cliché moments and focused dialogue.Cop Land has a great cast and Stallone shows he can act very well when required. He physically is not his muscular as he normally is, having a beer belly and looking more like typical middle-age man just past his prime. It was one of his most grounded performance from him which worked and he should do serious roles where he can show he can act. The rest of the cast is solid throughout, particularly from De Niro and Keitel who are top actors and Mangold does get performances from his actors.Howard Shore provides an excellent, bass scores that is fitting the film, but this is what you would expect from the guy who gave us the music for Lord of the Rings and it was shot very much like other 90s thrillers like Heat.Cop Land is a solidly entertaining film that fans of thrillers. It is worth checking out.
British cinema is often well known for making high end prestige pictures and excellent comedies but there is so much more to the British film industry. There is a strong, low budget scene and British cinema is able to be very gritty and hard hitting and The Disappearance of Alice Creed is very well made debut film by J Blakeson.Vic (Eddie Marsan) and Danny (Martin Compston) are two criminals who kidnap a woman, Alice Creed (Gemma Arterton) and ransom her for £2 Million. They have planned and prepared to every last detail but even the best laid plans can go to waste and everything starts to unravel as everyone's secrets are explored.Blakeson shows he is a director with real potential and shows what he can do with a minimum of characters and location. He has a real strong start with a montage of Vic and Danny do all their preparations for the kidnap. Blakeson knew how to add tension where through wide shots or quick cuts and he made sure there was a claustrophobic fell throughout and he did not hold back or sugar coat . Added to that is the twist, one was pretty obvious early one but another that really comes out of left field. Added to it was Marc Canham's music which is typical thriller music but it hit's the right note (pardon the pun) as scenes build up. I personally really enjoyed the realistic aspects of the drama, how the pair plan the kidnapping and do all their preparations: it was a strong 30 minutes in the beginning.The three actors are excellent throughout and it shows the strength of both the actors and film because they were the only three people in the film. They are natural throughout as they grow and react to the changing situation. Marsan is the typical hard nut who has to keep his cool and cunning leader whilst Compston is the more subservient but shows he is more then capable in this world of double dealing. Arterton is the most grounded character but they are all believable and she is a character who is fighting for survival.Most of the action takes place in flat and the focus is simply on the three characters and the breakdown of their relationships. Anything like the media reaction and the police investigate are not looked at, adding to the tension because we don't know what is going on in the outside world.This is very good film and worthy a look, but this film does fall into one big trap a lot of Brit-film fall into, the over use of swearing, even in situations where people are meant to be very clam.
There were reasons to be both excited and nervous about this third instalment of the "Narnia" series, but luckily Michael Apted has made a fun, swashbucking family film.Edmund (Skandar Keynes) and Lucy (Georgie Henley) are stuck in Cambridge, England, living with their bratty and selfish cousin Eustace Scrubb (Will Poulter). Edmund and Lucy long to return to Narnia; Peter has been rejected by the army for his age and Lucy, like many teenage girls, starts to have doubts about her looks. Through a magic painting the three youngsters are teleported to the oceans of Narnia and found by King Caspian X (Ben Barnes), leading a voyage to the Lone Islands. After freeing the people from a slave trader, Caspian, Lucy, Edmund and co. have to go eastward to find the seven lost lords and stop a mysterious green mist.Everything you would want or expect from a fantasy is here: sword fights, dragons, magic, legends, strange creatures, wizards and a quest into an unknown territory. The adventure was light-hearted and there is a great amount of humour. Poulter was excellent as the butt of the jokes as a spoiled child who is overwhelmed by his surroundings. He had a particularly good acting relationship with Keynes and Simon Pegg, the voice of Reepicheep. Pegg was able to inject some really comic energy as Eddie Izzard did with the role.The action was well handled and the special effects were decent. Because of the smaller forces involved and the sea-faring adventure there are no massive battles between large armies but more smaller, quicker skirmishes. The final battle was very much like the final action scene in Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest, a small group of people fighting a sea creature. The costumes were very similar to the "Pirates of the Caribbean" films and the filmmakers seem to be influenced by the "Harry Potter" series and the glowing sword from Lord of the Rings.Apted paces the film quickly with no moments of boredom to settle in. The voyage to a number of strangle desert-like islands was very similar to classic adventure films like Jason and the Argonauts. The dry islands were very similar to the Greek islands. It has an old-fashioned style and feel, but that is not necessarily bad -- in fact it's pretty good. The cinematography and set designs are bright and colourful and this is a perfect film to take children to.Whilst Keynes and Henley are a little unsteady at first in the film, they grow into their roles and becoming more assured. Barnes drops the Spanish accent from Prince Caspian and it helps him improve his performance. He was much more comfortable in the role and Caspian has grown up as character. He was more believable as a king then as a young prince.A problem with "Voyage" is there is a lack of a compelling antagonist. This film is more about the "quest" than The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe and Prince Caspian and there is a fresh amount of mystery, but the mystery has a lacklustre conclusion.
Four Lions was met with a lot of controversy when it was first came out, some people decrying that you can not make a comedy about terrorists. But there was one man willing to try, Chris Morris, who is not afraid to take on taboo subjects.A group of four radicalised Muslims living in Sheffield plan to commit a major terrorist attack and their intelligence levels range from very dumb to almost brain-dead. Two of them even go to Pakistan to go to a training camp where they accidentally blow up the camp. In England the group, Omar (Riz Ahmed), his dim-witted friend Waj (Kayvan Novak), white convert Barry (Nigel Linday) and Faisal (Adeel Akhtar) discuss potential targets, including blowing up the mosque to radicalise the moderates and Boots because that's where 'all the slags buy their condoms'. As these men make their bombs for their attack they become increasing parodied that MI5 and the police are watching them and that Barry is a complete nutcase.Four Lions is a very funny film but there is also a lot a drama as well. There has to be because of the subject manner but it really well handled for the most part particularly when the seriousness of what they plan to do dawns on them. The dialogue is hilarious throughout, these men are who have no understanding of the ideas of Islam, Jihad or anything including politics and society. Barry seems to be a character who uses fundamental Islam really as a cover for his anti-Semistism and as an excuse to commit violence. I love that he comes up with the idea to blow up the mosque and then makes a martyrdom video for it. This film attempts to show that these self-radicalised cells are just idiots with no grand plans or understanding and that al-Qaidi would just use anyone they can. There are also brilliant moments of dark physical comedy but then that's what happens when idiots use heavy weapons and explosives.Morris directs with speed, Four Lions is a very fast and is a tight and tort film. He uses hand-held camera giving the film a guerrilla style look to the film. The action when it happens it actually well done, like the scenes at the terrorist camp. These scenes must have cost a little bit of money.The actors were great and very funny in their roles. Omar is the only member of the group who actually has half a brain and call Barry out on his nonsense. Barry is basically a thug and a bully who thinks he is smarter then what he really is and Waj is simply a puppet of the other characters.The only real problem of the film is does not show why Omar is willing to blow himself up. He seems to live a conformable life in a nice house and has a loving wife and young son. Its not like he ever talks about injustices Muslims suffer, the conflicts in Iraq, Afghanistan or Palestine or the decadence and corrupt nature of Western Society. What is ever more extraordinary is his wife, who is a nurse, knows exactly what Omar plans to do and even worst actually supports him, not try and stop him for something as simple as raising their son. But the comedy makes up for this plothole.
The Forbidden Kingdom has a simple USP: Jackie Chan and Jet Li, two of cinema's best martial artists together in a film. The Forbidden Kingdom was a part of a mini-tread in 2008 of Hollywood films set in China: The Forbidden Kingdom, Kung Fu Panda and The Mummy: Tomb of the Dragon Emperor. This is partly because China has a rich culture, but mainly because of the money making potential, with an massive potential audience in China, the Far East and South Far East.The film starts out in modern day Boston, focusing on teenager Jason Tripitikas (Michael Angarano (Hollywood's Shia La Beouf cloning process is working wonders)). Jason is a big fan of material arts films and spends a lot of time in Chinatown, befriending an elderly owner of a Pawn Shop. But Jason is forced to betray his friend after being threaten by a local bully (Morgan Benoit) who wants to rob the shop. After the owner is shot Jason is given a staff and is told to return it to it's rightful owner. Jason is teleported to Anicent China, where he meets Lu Yan (Jackie Chan), an expert martial artist. Lu Yan tells Jason the story of the Monkey King who is betrayed by the Jade Warload (Collin Chou), an immortal tyrant. If Jason is able to return the staff then the Monkey King would be freed and thereby save China. On the quest Jason and Lu Yan are joined by Golden Sparrow (Liu Yifei), a young woman whom family was killed by the Jade Warlord, and the Silent Monk (Jet Li), a monk who also on a mission to return the staff to the Monkey King. The Jade Warrior sends the powerful witch Ni Chang (Li Bingbing) to find the staff for him and kill all the people who wants to return the staff.The film has a easy enough story to follow, ticking all the basic boxes for screen writing, and decent enough family viewing. They is a good action, with the director Rob Minkoff letting Jackie Chan and Jet Li do their thing, not over-editing or use shaky cam. There are enough moments to keep kids happy. Jackie Chan and Jet Li are decent throughout the film and have some comic moments as well as showing how good they are at beating people up. Michael Angarano and Li Bingbing were not bad.But there are a lot of problems with this film. Firstly is the issue of race. Despite the film being marketed that it's leading men were Chinese, it's main protagonist is a white American teenager. This is mainly because a mainstream American audience probably could handling a non-American as the person they are meant to be routing for. There is also the issue that a white guy walking around Ancient China might get notice pretty easily and may be feared. As stated Michael Angarano was pretty much a substitute for Shia La Beouf, which wasn't needed. Other actors like Morgan Benoit and Liu Yifei were really weak, with poor acting ability. Some of the scenes looked pretty fake and poor, some money should have been invested. There were some poor jokes that weren't needed. It was also cheesy at times, some people may like it because of that, but I'm not a fun.It's an okay film, but you only need to see it seen once.
The Man Who Knew Too Much is one of Alfred Hitchcock's early thrillers and shows his flair as a director. This is film is very short and fast paced, and follows the formula that Hitchcock mastered.The film focuses on the Lawerence Family who were on holiday in Switzerland. They befriend a Louis (Pierre Fresnay), a Frenchmen. During their final night of the Lawerence's stay Louis is a killed and he tells Bob (Leslie Banks) to go to his room and retrieve his information and tell the British Consul. Bob does this, but the spy-ring kidnap his daughter and say he will never see her again if he passes on the information. When back in London, Bob and Jill (Edna Best) are heartbroken, but refuse to tell the police or the Foreign Office anything, fearing for their daughter. After receiving a call from Wapping, East London, Bob and Jill's brother go to discrit before the police, hoping to find his daughter before the police.This isn't Hitchcock's best film, but it's a good film. Some of the acting lets it down because it's a little over-the-top, Peter Lorre steals the show with his subtle but sinner performance as the head of the spy-ring. What makes the film work is the visual and the plot twists. There are some excellent Hitchcock shots and cuts which became his trademark. There was also a good final shoot-out which was based on real events.It's a decent watch.
After the critical and financial success of the brilliant Downfall, producer Bernd Eichinger follows up with another tale from German history, this time about the Red Army Faction (RAF) in the 60s and 70s.The Baader Meinhof Complex tells the story from the formation of the organisation during the student protests of 1967 till their downfall 10-years later. Two of the main leaders were Andreas Baader (Moritz Bleibtreu), a young hothead who believes in using violence to bring about his group's political aims and Ulrike Meinhof (Martina Gedeck), a successful left-wing journalist who ends up joining the student movement and becomes the intelligential voice for the RAF, justifying their violence. Also within the leadership was Baader's lover, Gudrun Ensslin (Johanna Wokalek), who was a combination of Meinhof's intellect and Baader's violence. After Chancellor Willy Brandt reaches out to the student movement the RAF quickly turn to violence, training with the PLO in Jordan and in West German undertake a campaign of assassination, bank-robbery and bombings: protesting against capitalism, American foreign policy and standing for 'Third World' nations.This film shows the RAF for what their were; thugs! Baader came out in a particularly bad light as a headstrong person who lusted for violent with his partner. Meinhof was more of an idealist and could argue her cast more. She was interesting because she had a comfortable and could have easily had an been a member of intelligential classes. The RAF even had legitimate concerns like Vietnam, but there had such a dogmatic view about everything. There were people who just wanted to play militant, like when at the PLO camp they just wanted to shoot, whilst the PLO wanted to properly train them. It was also a clash of cultures, with the RAF believing in free love whilst the PLO were devout Muslims. What is more shocking was that the RAF had support in West Germany, being seen as a Robin Hood type organisation. But in reality these extreme often hurt their cause more then help it.There is good cast in the film, well acted and Uli Edel was able to show a couple of stories within the main story arc. He was able to direct so decent actions scenes, much like in a good crime thriller. He did try to show some of the more justified elements of their policies, like Vietnam and the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, but other parts of their policies were totally horrid. If the RAF really cared about Marxism they should have looked for ways to bring about their policies and replace the government: but they mixed that would actions that affected real people. It would have been interesting to have more of a debate about terrorism and shown more about the police investigation, but we can't have everything. Edel and Eichinger also attempted to bring in some contemporary themes like American foreign policy and Israel (and took out the Anti-Semitic element which plagues anti-Israel critics now). It also has other elements like the right-wing press barons, which obviously could easily be related to Rupert Murdock in Britain, America and Australia.A good film, particularly to anyone interested in political theory and history.
Before Unforgiven Clint Eastwood was more famous as an actor, his most famous roles being the Man with No Name and Inspector Harry Callahan. He started directing in the 70s and developed a good reputation, but it was Unforgiven that propelled Eastwood into category of a great director. He won his first best director Oscar and reinvented the Western genre.Eastwood plays William Munnay, a retired outlaw, living as a widower, father and a farmer. He sets out to live a peaceful live, but is struggling financially. He gets an offer from The Schofield Kid (Jaimz Woolvett), a young outlaw saying that in a small town of Big Whiskey, Wyoming there is the bounty of $1000 for two men who cut up a woman played by Anna Levine. Will and The Schofield Kid team up and bring in Will's former partner Ned Logan (Morgan Freeman) and set off to claim the reward. But the town sheriff Little Bill (Gene Hackman) claims the debt for the crime has already been settled and would violently uphold his law and keep peace in his town.Eastwood, along with John Warne is considered on of the greatest icons of the Western genre. With The Name with no Name Trilogy Sergio Leone and Eastwood were able to reinvent the genre by increasing the level of violence and bringing more adult tones. With Unforgiven Eastwood reinvented the genre once again, making the violence more realistic and gave the genre a more Earthy, gritty tone. Eastwood's direction was excellent, setting a sombre tone throughout with light music and with his cinematography Jack N. Green filmed in a darker tone, reflected the film. Eastwood set out to let the audience find out about the characters and sets out to make a film with depth. You could fill the dirt of the Old West. It was also interesting move that most of the characters, the outlaws and the sheriff being older men, showing that there was an old guard who were men of violence. But these were men who were also wanted to change themselves but still in their 50s and 60s.There is a great cast in this film: Eastwood, Freeman and Hackman are all great actors and are on top form in this film. Eastwood gives one of his best performances ever in a film and Freeman is always good. Hackman really shows his ruthless side and talent throughout, and that he was one tough mother! But it wasn't just a show for the acting veterans, Woolvett showed that he was a promising acting, having a wide range as an actor. It was a shame that he did not get to live up to his potential. Levine too gives a powerful performance the scarred prostitute.David Peoples wrote an excellent screenplay. The story is simple and down-to-Earth, but he was able to bring about complex backstories to his characters and there are wider themes. The film looks at the issue of hero worship and that there was no glory in the world of violence. There is a dark morality throughout the film, but these were characters living in a violence world. Peoples shows his talent as a writer. Peoples also set out to show some historical details like the rise of pulp western fiction and how some outlaws became popular. But whilst the film was good, one small criticism was the inclusion of English Bob (Richard Harris). His character was really a stock character to show Little Bill's ruthless nation. It also felt artificial that the character was English, showing a stereotypical side of a posh English person. It would have been more realistic and had more impact if the character was from America, from a state like Texas or Arizona.Overall Unforgiven is an essential film to watch and was deserving of the awards it got.
Based on a book by Jon Krakauer Into the Wild was passion project for Sean Penn, waiting 10 years to make it ensure he had the approval of Christopher McCandless' family before he could make it.Christopher McCandless (Emile Hirsch) is a recent university graduate who decides to reject society and materialism and goes travelling across America. He gives all his money to Oxfam and renames himself Alexander Supertramp and on the way he meets a variety of characters, including a couple of hippies, Jan and Rainey (Catherine Keener and Brian H. Dierker), a harvester, Wayne (Vince Vaughn), a young singer Tracy (Kristen Stewart) and a old man Ron (Hal Holbrook). He ends up in the winter landscape of Alaska, attempting to live off the land. At home he left no way for his parents (William Hurt and Marcia Gay Harden) and his sister Carine (Jena Malone).Into the Wild is a slow burner of a film, taking its time to show Chris/Alex's travels and the way it looked and felt reminded me of Danny Boyle, particularly The Beach and 127 Hours. There is great cinematography by Eric Gautier and sombre music. Sean Penn does have a good eye for imagine and scenes like when Chris/Alex was in Los Angles looking like when Richard was in the Ko Pha Ngan. The film itself lack a strong narrative structure but that is because of the story itself, Chris/Alex is wondering around Western America as he develops his skills and makes friends.Chris/Alex is portrayed as a very intelligent young man, an avid reader and has a strong, if a little too rigid moral view of the world. But is also portrayed as an arrogant man, who is selfish and because of his view that he does not need human connections he does not realise how much he hurts the people who love and care for him. One of the main reasons he ran away was because his parents used to argue and nearly had a divorce: everyone's parents argue get over it! In the Wikipedia article they say his parents were unloving, but when we saw them they did seem to care about their son and want to see him do well, offering to buy him a car and match his college fund to go to Harvard Law. Also if he really believed against materialism, the modern world and the curse of modern society, why not go to somewhere like a rural African village and helping the people have a better live.Asking wise I personally doubt Hirsch's abilities and I personally thought he was trying to be like Leonardo Di Caprio (ironically I found out on the trivia page that Penn originally envisioned Di Caprio for the role). Hirsch is good in the silence moments and will Penn's direction shows that a simple image or images can be more powerful then using lots of dialogue and it takes great skill for an actor to make it compelling. But Hirsch speaks in a monotone and he comes off as a pretentious rich boy. He is best when he is in Alaska. Malone also provided narration and both her and Hirsch lay it on thick with what they say but lack emotion. The rest of the cast are good throughout, Hurt, Harden, Holbrook (wealthy of his Oscar nod), Keener, Vaughn and even Stewart who is natural (but it could also be I liked her in her Daisy Dukes). There is a very strong cast in this film.Overall Into the Wild is a good film and certainly made with a lot of passion. But it is not the classic piece of work some critics think it.A Solid 4 out of 5.
When the script for The Fighter ended up reaching Mark Walhberg he was demanded to make it, going through a long pre-production before it was finally made.The Fighter is the story of Micky Ward (Wahlberg), a 30-year-old welterweight boxer from Lowell, Massachusetts. He is trained by his brother, Dicky Eklund (Christian Bale) and his mum, Alice (Melissa Leo) is his manager. Micky is a boxer who never fulfilled his potential and his family have dominated his career. Dicky is also a crack addict and been followed by a documentary crew. The whole family live in the past because of Dicky's greatest achievement was knocking out Sugar Ray Leonard. After Micky was forced into a fight against a much heavier boxer he is ready to quit, especially after Dicky is arrested and the police breaks his hand. But after Micky meets a barmaid, Charlene (Amy Adams) and with the support of her and his dad (Jack McGee), Micky sets about having a comeback with his brother and mother and has a shot at being the World Title. Whilst in prison Dickey attempts to come clean and get himself back into shape.Originally Darren Aronofsky was set to direct The Fighter but in the end left so he could do Black Swan: so David O. Russell stepped in. Russell did attempt to follow some of Aronofsky's style, using hand-held cameras and looking at live in a working class urban setting, but he uses a lighter colour pallet and injects a bit of humour into the story. Moments of comedy particularly involving Micky's sisters, the next being even more ugly then last and when Dicky tries to escape his mother by jumping out a window. This is a film about family loyalty and how it could have a destructive affect, that if someone tries to do something for himself and gets advise outside the family that it is seen as an act of betrayal. Its almost like the Mitchell family in Eastenders, where every action has to done with the rest family in mind. But it shows that family does not always knows best. It is also an examination of inner city live in a run down city and general working class culture where boxing is a popular sport. It is an area that is ignored by people, where people turn to vices ranging from drink to drugs.Acting wise this was Wahlberg's dream project, but the problem is that Micky Ward is very passive character. He is a man who just gives in to his family or needs advice, he does not do any action for himself. It makes him a weak-willed hero. Wahlberg gives Micky a quiet personality and does look the part. But it is the supporting characters that are more interesting roles and do more in the way of action. Christian Bale throws his all into his role, making out that Dicky could be a joker and someone who did love his brother, but someone who could not be trusted and simply lives on past glories. He is a man who has to face up to his demons and move on with his live. Adams's character is a feisty being, someone who does not take stick from anyone. She is a tough, edgy working class woman but also fun to see in her bra and panty. Leo's character is very much a matriarch, the head of the family who loves her children but things she knows best when really she does not. She rules with almost an iron fist and it is either her way or no way. She unfairly favours Dicky despite what he does and over looks Micky's wishes and achievements. The problem is Micky disappears on screen when all these other characters are on screen and Wahlberg should had made his character stronger.When it comes the fighting screens they are well handled by Russell and he shots all the ring action like it was done by television crew. It is a bit different and allows you to see all the action. It also focuses all the action on the ring and the fight crew, with the crowd plunged in darkness.A criticism I have of the film is way the England was portrayed, with English people portrayed in the most stereotypical way possible. I haven't seen any English people dressed in old-fashion bowties and it would even less like that boxing officials would look like that. The man who plays Shea Neary, Anthony Molinari is meant to be a Liverpoolian but his accent sounds like a weird cross between Scottish and Australian. His characterisation was also handled in a clichéd way, a complete bastard: this was done in many of the Rocky films and Cinderella Man with the idea of making you want to route for Ward. But we do not get to see much of Neary anyway and surely wouldn't it be more realistic that he said something like I am here to win without bad mouthing his opponent. It certainly would be different. Rant over, The Fighter is at times a little slow and does have a few too many montages, but it still an enjoyable film, particularly to anyone who likes boxing.
The 80s was a great period for action films, with hits like The Terminator, Predator, Aliens and Indiana Jones and the Raiders of the Lost Ark. It was also a period where the buddy cop genre growth with 48 Hours and the Beverly Hills Cop Series. Sequels too were becoming more popular, such as the Back to the Future trilogy, Mad Max series, the Karate Kid series and Indiana Jones trilogy being major examples. With Lethal Weapon being a hit in 1987 a sequel was commissioned, with Richard Donner, Mel Gibson, Danny Glover and Shane Black returning.Martin Riggs (Mel Gibson) and Roger Murtaugh (Danny Glover) are now friends and partners in the LAPD. There are on the case of foreign drug dealers importing heroin into the United States. But when Murtaugh and his wife are threaten their captain assign the two officers to protect Leo Getz (Joe Pesci), a loudmouth money launderer who has become a federal witness. Getz is targeted by the drug dealers Riggs and Murtaugh are thrust into action to arrest them. But there are South African diplomats lead by Arjen Rudd (Joss Ackland). There are protected by diplomatic immunity so our heroes have to come up with other means to stop the cartel.With the characters established in the first film, Donner was able to jump into the action straight and what better way is then a car chase in the middle of Los Andreas. Lethal Weapon 2 was also able to streamline the plot, forcing mostly on the battle of minds and weapons with the South Africans. There are not as many subplots, but the ones that are in the film do work. Donner keeps Lethal Weapon 2 going at a face pace, with plenty of action and tone wise the sequel is more light hearted and overtly humorous to it's predecessor. Most of the humour works, like when Murtaugh goes to the South African consulate pretended he wanted to emigrate to the Apartheid nation. There is also a running joke about Murtaugh's wife's new car repeatedly getting damaged because of the police wok. But there are a few scenes which try to be funny but do not add anything to the film, like when the cops and Getz argue about going through a drive through. Donner continues using traditional techniques for the action sequences, using stunt work and keeping the action real. It is also so good to actually see what is going on during a shoot-out or fight. The final fight scene between Gibson and Derrick O'Connor was better in this film then it was in Lethal Weapon because Donner used a lot of wide shots and used less cuts in the fight. Donner and his writers also find some interesting ways to kill people in rather humorous ways.Acting wise Lethal Weapon 2 was alright, Gibson and Glover has good chemistry together and now much more light hearted. Most of the other actors did a decent job, but Pesci's character was very annoying and he works best with Martin Scorsese and Robert De Niro. Some of the actors playing South Africans were also not able to master the accent, sounding more Australian/New Zealander, but that's a minor problem.However, a minor plothole in the film is if South African security forces started to kill American cops then you could imagine the response of the American government would have been.I found it very ironic that Gibson made fun of the South Africans for thinking there are the master race and calling one of them Adolf, considering we all now know his views on Black and Jewish people, women and homosexuals.A fun film.
2012 saw the return of Joaquin Phoenix to acting after a brief break so he can have a 'rap' career. He unites with writer/director Paul Thomas Anderson and works with some great actors in the thinly veiled attack on Scientology.Phoenix stars as a Peter Quell, a Navy veteran, an alcoholic and psychologically damaged. He is unable to keep a job and prone to anger and violence and when he hits rock bottom meets Lancaster Dodd (Phillip Seymour Hoffman). Soon Peter opens up to charismatic leader and becomes a part of the organisation.The Master is both a character study and an examination of the running of the cult, particularly the politics within the organisation. Peter is a man who is looking for somewhere to belong yet hostile to everyone he meets. Lancaster and his group offers that, using 'The Process' to allow Peter to open up. Yet Lancaster is also a man who is also not above anger when poked or questions from people within and outside the organisation. Lancaster's wife (Amy Adams) too is a major force within the organisation, acting as a power behind the man, influencing Lancaster and getting him to do her bidding.To anyone who knows anything about the Scientology Cult can see the parallel being presented. There is the obvious that both have insane and non-sensible ideas the cults are based. Processing is the same as the as Auditing by the Scientology, used to break down people and find out personal information about people. The idea of fair game is brought up, that if anyone who criticise the movement should be targeted and anyone who leaves are locked out for good.The Cause is not just a pseudo religious movement but it is also a family conflict as many of the Lancaster's family members have different views, such as his son who sees his father for what he really is, a charlatan.The Master is a beautiful looking film, having some great cinematography by Mihai Mălaimare, Jr. as he shoots the desert, the sea, the beach and uses plenty of long takes and tracking shots to show scale and allow the actors to have a natural, uninterrupted performance. But scenes in the dark were too dark and many scenes that play for too long and could have shorten.The Master is not Paul Thomas Anderson's best films, There Will Be Blood and Boogie Nights are stronger films. It is still a worthy drama, a well written and directed film as Anderson shows himself to be a auteur and his period setting and long, slow burning style is very reminiscent to Terence Malick.
Writer/director Mike Flanagan adapted his own short film Oculus: Chapter 3  The Man with the Plan as a psychological horror feature film and serves as Doctor Who star Karen Gillan's Hollywood debut.After spending 11 years in a mental hospital Tim Russell (Brenton Thwaites) is released on his 21st Birthday and is greeted by his older sister, Kaylie (Gillan). She gets Tim to fulfil a promise they made when they were children, to destroy a 400-year-old mirror known as the Lasser Glass, which she believes is haunted, and plans to document the events over the course of a night. Locked in their old house for a night, Kaylie and Tim reflect on their childhood when their parents were driven to insanity 11 years earlier.Oculus is a very well acted with the whole cast giving strong performances, including child actors Annalise Basso and Garrett Ryan as the younger versions of Kaylie and Tim. British audiences are most likely to be interested because of the beautiful Karen Gillan and her fans will be pleased by her performance, giving plenty of emotion and a convincing American accent.Oculus has major conflict early on between the older versions of Kaylie and Tim, Tim acting as the voice of scepticism and coming up logical explanations about what happened in their past and the history of the mirror. One of the best sequences is Kaylie and Tim debating the mirror's history, with Gillan and Thwaites working well together. Oculus would have benefited from being more ambiguous about the supernatural elements and casting more doubt.Another theme is the persecution of reality the siblings suffer and arguing about their psychological states. They both have different interruptions of the events of their past, coming up with different examples and if done a little differently could have been a deeper study of the fallibility of the human memory. The mirror plays on the siblings minds and causing visions and casting doubt about what is real and what is not. Finally the characters are facing demons, both their personal and literal demons that the mirror causes.Flanagan shows himself to be a director with potential. With his cinematographer Michael Fomognari, the pair do create some excellent shots, having wonderful camera movements as it follows actions on screen and both are fond of using high camera angles and steady cam shots. There are some excellent visuals, from the camera to the design of the ghosts. One particular little moment is when Tim sees an image of Kaylie on a computer screen which is different to the cameras she had set up and resulting in thoughts about the Doctor Who episode "The Time of Angels".Flanagan also treats his characters to having some intelligence, Kaylie being very scientific and methodical approach to proving what the mirror does and her plan to destroy whiles Tim as stated comes up with sensible counter arguments. As the film progresses and plans more tricks on the mind it becomes tougher for the Russell's as they do not know what is real. Gore is kept to a minimum and is more impactful when it is shown. It is not a film for gore hounds.But as Flanagan tries to judge the two narratives he ends up struggling despite his best efforts and by the third act Oculus starts to implode with its two conclusions at the end, becoming more of a muddled mess.Film School Rejects put it best with their review saying "well-acted, looks quite good and manages some moments of entertainment, but as the minutes tick by it grows weaker and weaker until its final cheat designed to allow for a shocker ending". It is a statement I totally agree with.6.5/10 Please visit www.rocknreelreviews.com
I have finally done it, I have done everything Millennium trilogy related I could possibly do: I have read the novels, seen the David Fincher film and now completed the Swedish version of the trilogy.The Girl Who Kicked the Hornet's Nest picks up where The Girl Who Played With Fire left off: Lisbeth Salander (Noomi Rapace) had been shot in the head by her father Alexander Zalachenko (Georgi Staykov) and is being rushed to hospital. Lisbeth is placed under arrest for attempted murder and she is awaiting trial. Investigative journalist Mikael Blomqvist (Michael Nyqvist) sets out to expose the secret organisation with the Swedish Security Police that has been protecting Zalachenko at the expense of Salander and attempt to clear her name. But this organisation is not going to go down without a fight.I am going to go against the grain of popular opinion and say that The Girl Who Kicked the Hornet's Nest is the weakest of all the films that has been made based on Steig Larsson's material. It is still a decent enough film but just not as good as the other properties in the series. For me this adaptation is too disloyal to the novel it is based on. There are some elements I agreed that should have been cut like the sexual harassment of Erika Berger and her troubles at her new job at SMP (seeing that was not even touched on in the previous film) but for the most part the investigation and did not feel as natural and organic like it did in the book with all the inter. At least in The Girl Who Played With Fire had a fast pace and was more loyal to the novel.The Girl Who Kicked Hornet's Nest was originally made for Swedish Television and whilst the production values are excellent it still has more of a television look to it. It is not that much different to various crime trailers that have been made for British TV over the years. There is no real style or pace to this production.This version is more simpler story to the novel, streamlining elements and properly a little easier to follow to anyone who has not read the books. Not necessarily a bad thing because there are a lot of players in the book. But I still feel the film is too disloyal to the novel which it did not need to be.The actors were solid as they were in the previous films and there is nothing to complain about. Nyqvist and Rapace are particular strong as they have been: I really like Nyqvist as the headstrong and ultra determined Blomqvist.I personally want to see what David Fincher (assuming he will continue with the series) will do with this novel because I think he would make a more complex, intense thriller that is more loyal to the novel. Still this version is a decent effort, well acted and an interesting film, but it is not quite the ending the Swedish version of the series deserves.3/5
Alexander Payne has had a successful career making comedy-dramas and working excellent screenplay by Bob Nelson his black-and-white film Nebraska is both funny and heartfelt. Nebraska follows Woody Grant (Bruce Dern), a senile old man who believes that he has won $1 million when he receives a letter from a marketing company. Despite his younger son David (Will Forte) knowing it is scam agrees to take his father from Billings, Montana to Lincoln, Nebraska, visiting Woody's old home town and send time with his family.Nebraska is brilliantly acted film, particularly from Dern who is deserving of his Oscar nomination, being believable as a man who is no longer quite with it and becomes more sympathetic during the course of the film. Nelson crafts a wonderful screenplay that is full of wit, clever lines and well-written, compelling characters. Nebraska is very much a story about family and a father-son relationship, with the son learning about his family's past. Nebraska felt very believable in its story and characters as one old man wants something to hope for and give him some control in his life and a family reconnecting again.
When The Goonies was first made the prospect must have been sky high, with a story by Steven Spielberg and him being the Executive Producer, having established director Richard Donner directing, famous for directing the first Superman movie, and had at the time, the young and upcoming Chris Columbus wrote the screenplay.The Goonies tells an simple adventure story where a group of friends are being forced out their neighbourhood because of land-developers wanting to turn their homes in a golf course. Micky (Sean Astin) the leader of the group finds a treasure map and an ancient doubloon leading to a legendary pirate ship underground. They have one day to find it before their homes are foreclosed. Whilst on the hunt for the treasure the Goonies run into the Fratellis, a family of Italian-American criminals. One of them has just escaped from the local jail, Jake (Robert Davi), and the family an abandoned restaurant to counterfeit money. They are not afraid to murder number and go on the chase of the Goonies who could risk their plans.To people who grew up in the 80s and 90s love this film. A number of my friends really like it, and I remember seeing it when I was in Primary School. It is a simply a fun film with action and adventure, with a message of friendship. All the friends have their own character traits, like Mikey as the leader and the most committed to the quest, Mouth (Corey Feldman) as an little trouble maker, Data (Jonathan Ke Quan) the inventor and Chunk (Jeff Cohen) an child who wants to avoid trouble. There is also a good sub-plot involving Mikey's older brother Brand (Josh Brolin) and Andy (Keri Green) who slowly form a relationship during the film. Richard Donner is a good set-pieces director, and he is old-fashioned (and that's a good thing). They is excellent set-designs with good old style action. He used traditional techniques and not things like the birth of CGI and blue screen. He focused on this story and characters. They is a decent screen, and the first did feel a little like Chris Columbus directional efforts towards the Home Alone films. I also the score of the film.The film is not perfect and I did not like the use of proficiency by young kids in this type of film.Still an enjoyable film.
Hard Candy was always going to get attention because of it's controversial subject matter. It's is a fairly decent thriller but could have been better.The film starts with a 14-year-old girl Hayley (Ellen Page) arranging a meeting Jeff (Patrick Wilson), a photography and in his early 30s. They meet at a café and both try to impress each other. Jeff invites Hayley back to his home, trying to impress the girl with his photos of models and music and both drink alcohol. However Hayley is not as innocent or naive as she first appears. Hayley drugs Jeff, and plans to torture the man for being a paedophile. Both play mind-games with each other, with Jeff trying to claim he is innocent.It is a simple premise, and it could have easily fallen into either exploration territory, or as a rape-revenge story. Luckily the filmmakers were smart enough to avoid this, and made the film as a thriller about right and wrong, and about revenge for a man's crimes. It was a pretty strong premise, and not out the realms of possibility. Neither Hayley or Jeff are particularly likable characters, which is often a suicidal move for a film, but it works with this film and makes for compelling viewing.Patrick Wilson is a good actor and was very strong in the film. He was convincing, and could be both slimy and sympathetic in the same role. Ellen Page was good at playing her character as naive girl and as a smart girl, but I wasn't so convinced of her performance as a psycho killer. But then that was the twist.The direction was decent, but could have been better. This was David Slade's first film, and it was a smart move on his part to do a small indie film and not just jump and do a big-budget blockbuster before he was ready. They are some good shots, like at the end, and during the surgery scene. He sets the tone and does a good twist at the right point, but he still suffers from stylist tricks because of his background as a music video director, such as the shaky effect. I think a more gritty, realistic style would have worked for the film.Brain Nelson wrote an okay script with a strong premise and a good twist. There is good dialogue and a interesting back story to Jeff, whilst there is mystery behind Hayley. Hayley is shown to be a smart, logical girl, poking holes in Jeff's story. But there are some plot holes, like how did Hayley know the neighbours were gone. It's also a little hard to believe a fourteen-year-old girl could be able to subdue a fully grown man or act the way she does and be so smart about everything at the same time.A decent film, but could have been stronger and better.
The Kitchen Sink and Social Realistic genres are ever present in the UK as British filmmakers explore that the darker elements of life and society. Tyrannosaur is a film that shows that the genre is still alive.In a nameless working class town Joseph (Peter Mullen) is an unemployed man with a violence temper and flies into fits of rage with ease. After killing his dog and threatening a teenager in a pub Joseph hides in a charity shop. They he meets a Christian woman, Hannah (Olivia Colman) offers the hand of friendship to Joseph. But Hannah is also a victim of violence, suffering at the hand of her abusive husband (Eddie Marsden).Tyrannosaur is the directing debut for actor Paddy Considine. He has a very hard-hitting, unflinching style as he is not afraid the most the darkest aspects of life. Considine explores the themes of violence in society, how it affects people from the perpetrators to the victims and that it affects people from all walks from life. Violence at both the forefront and in the background as it effects characters in the background. The destructive effects of alcohol plays on people, playing with their emotions and acting as a coping mechanism. The pacing is just right, the score was soft and subtle and the cinematography had a dark simplicity to it, highlighting the bleakness of the town and the situation of violence.The acting was fantastic throughout. Both Mullen and Colman had difficult roles and they did everything they needed to. It would have been easy to make out Joseph to be a vile human being that we want to see come to serious harm but Mullen does bring out a lot of character and complexity to his role: I admit that his accent and grumble makes him a little hard to understand at times it was still a very compelling performance and it would be easy to far a man like him despite being in his late forties/early fifties. Playing a victim of domestic abuse is always a tough role to get right and Colman (known mostly for comic roles) gives a natural performance and deserved many of the Best British Awards she earned.Tyrannosaur is a very tough watch with some very graphic scenes that shock for its brutal depiction as a man searches for redemption. Tyrannosaur is a film you should see once.
The Millennium Trilogy has become a publishing sensation across the world and the original film, The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo was the most successful Swedish film. The other two books were adapted at the same time, but for Swedish television and edited into films.A year after the events of The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo, Lisbeth Salander (Noomi Rapace) is living in Caribbean after stealing a fortune from a corrupt business tycoon. She returns to Stockholm when she discovers her mother has left her some money and her guardian and rapist Nils Bjurman (Peter Andersson) has attempted to get his tattoo (saying 'I am a Sadistic Pig and a Rapist'). At the time a young journalist Dag Svensson (Hans Christian Thulin) approaches Millennium magazine with his scoop, a investigation of high ranking people in Sweden who use underage prostitutes. But when Svensson, his girlfriend and Bjurman have been murdered and Salander is the main suspect. Mikael Blomqvist (Michael Nyqvist) sets out to prove she is a innocent and both investigate the mystery of a gangster only known as Zala and his large, unstoppable henchman (Micke Spreitz).Daniel Alfredson replaced Niels Arden Oplev in the director's chair and that is where the different is most obvious. Alfredson took on the job because Oplev did not like the schedule. Alfredson' direction was much more quicker, feeling like he needed to move the story alone more quickly. There was not that more tense and stylist feel The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo had. His style was a little televisional, using establishing shots of building like in TV shows and he seem to lack the style in his direction. He does a decent job and the Girl Who Played With Fire is a typical murder mystery and you can't deny it is fast paced that does not allow you room to breath. It is a very interesting story and Stieg Larsson knows how to hook readers, something very dark.Like with any adaptation they has to be changes and seeing that the first film already made it had to follow that continuity. Some changes are perfectly wise, the part of the book where Salander was in the Caribbean was simply filler and almost like trying to remember the reader that Salander hates men who abuse women. Other elements were cut or edited from the novel like when Salander gets attacked so Blomqvist has to find out that Salander has a PO Box a different way. It is a real shame that the police investigation was mostly cut because it was a big manhunt for Salander and they were big characters in the novel. The film adaptation is basically the streamlined version of the story. Other differences are minor but they are acceptable.However Alfredson does not know how to direct an action sequence. The biggest example being the scene where Paolo Roberto, an ex-professional boxer in real life fights the blond hulk: the editing choppy and the choreography was terrible.A problem I have with both the novel and film is the use of a real people in fiction that does not really justify it. I personally think that Paolo Roberto could easily have been a fictional character who happened to be an ex-champion boxer. It would not have made a different in the long run and a Hollywood remake certainly could not use a real person.Rapace and Nyqvist are both very good in their roles, they needed to be because they are loved characters and needed to keep the series continuity. Salander is made out to be a little less bitchy and malicious to characters who cross even in minor ways: by doing this she is more a rogue and an outsider but we can sympathise for her. One aspect the film actually improves is the portrayal of the punters, like the journalist Sandstrom (Ola Wahlstrom) who shows that he has a daughter, giving him a bit more depth and not simply not a complete misogynist and the character of Gunner Bjork (Ralph Carlsson) looks like a normal old man.I remember on criticism on Radio Five Live that the novel goes into detail of how girls were trafficked into Sweden and the film does not do it. Rubbish: yes the book does have a page or two on it when Svennson describes what happens but it is nothing that people who pay attention the news have never heard before and the story itself is focused on Salander, Blomqvist and the police (who were mostly omitted from the movie).Overall if you are looking for a definitive adaptation of novel you are not going to get it here, but it still an entertaining thriller.
The 1990s were a great time for cartoon adaptations of comic books superheroes, such as Spider-man, the Incredible Hulk, Iron Man, Fantastic Four and Batman. And X-Men was the best of them all. Here is an adaptation which that explores every theme that made the comics great.X-Men is about a group of mutants led by Charles Xavier. Xavier's dream is for mutants and human to live together in peace. But there are many factors that oppose this dream, from Magento, Xavier's old friend, who thinks a war between the sides of humanity, Mr. Sinister, a mutant who want to genetically enhance mutants, the Sentials, powerful robots programmed to kill mutants, the Friends of Humanity, a group of anti-Mutant extremists and the all powerful Apocalypse just to name a few. Many of the villains get to show their ideology that drives them, which makes X-Men so much better then most superheroes and I why I think they are the best.Within the series they is many different plots, some having massive arcs like the Phoenix storyline to stand alone episodes. Many of the characters get to shine, from Wolverine with his tortured background and rage, Gambit as a theft, Rogue with the inability to touch and suffers horrible memories, to Beast's intelligent, etc Many elements and story lines from the comics are brought into the series such as Days of the Future Past and the Dark Phoenix. Many of the mutants from the comics even get to play supporting roles or have cameos, e.g. Angel, Nightcrawler and Psylocke.They is good animation, excellent storytelling and writing, strong character development and lots of action to satisfy fans. The series use all the sci-elements available and even some of Marvel's other character have brief cameos.I only have 2 small criticisms of the series. First is Xavier's school focuses on the adult members, and only has one student, when for the most time there are a number of students of all ages living at the school. My other criticism is the limits that were set on the violence, this was because of the American censors limits on many American cartoons at the time. They were no deaths or even guns shots or punching. Wolverine only gets to slide and dice robots and not people.It's a very enjoyable cartoon for both purists who even hated the Singer films, and to outsides of the comic books. Great cartoon series.
Films about Biblical stories and religious themes have for many years had a bad name, either being cheap and preachy or very controversial like Mel Gibson's The Passion of the Christ. But finally we have received a thoughtful, intelligent film with Christian themes thanks to Black Swan director Darren Aronofsky.On the first day God created Heaven and Earth and he later made man in his own image. But his creation, Adam and Eve end up corrupted and with their sons Abel, Cain and Seth are banished from the Garden of Eden. After Cain kills Abel his descendants spread, build cities, become more corrupted and sprit and pillage the land. Seth's descendants try to protect God's creation, but only one branch of the family is left, Noah (Russell Crowe), his wife (Jennifer Connelly) and their three sons and adopted daughter.Noah and his family live a nomadic lifestyle away from humanity. Man has turned the world into a barren wasteland. Noah has visions of a coming flood and interprets them as the Creator wanting him to save the innocent, the animals because they still live like they did in the Garden of Eden. With the help of The Watchers, fallen angels turned to stone for defying God for helping man, they build the Ark. But the king of men, Tubal-Cain (Ray Winstone) wants the Ark for himself and prepares for battle to take it.Noah is Aronofsky's biggest scale movie to date and it is allows for epic entertainment whilst allowing an auteur like him to keep his artistic integrity. Aronofsky provides plenty of food for thought as he does not bring us a stereotypical preachy film that only appeals to the converted. Noah is an Old Testament tale, not the children's version of the story as God is a cruder, vengeful being who keeps his distance and the visions have to be interpreted. The men of Tubal-Cain are crude, savage people as they are violent, tearing animals apart for meat and selling women into slavery as they strip the land.Noah takes a philosophical approach as characters debate the morality of man, that even the Seth's descendants are the product of original sin and whether they should suffer God's wrath as well as Cain's descendants. There are questions about whether there are good and innocent people in Tubal-Cain's tribe and Noah and his middle son Ham (Logan Lerman) both have doubts as during their missions: Noah towards the Creator and Ham towards his father. Tubal-Cain himself acts as a form of temptation for Ham like the snake for Eve. Noah is a man who descends into madness as he becomes blinded by his mission in the third act. This is a more complex view of religion and God's will than in movies like God's Not Dead which is as subtle as a sledgehammer and only has one viewpoint.Besides the obvious religious themes Noah also tackles environmentalism as man recklessly mines and rips the land, stripping it bare for resources, killing any struggling animal for meat and leaving nothing but ash. The use of Iceland as a superb location illustrates this world of humanity living on the edge, toiling to survive. Noah works as a metaphor for now about how people treat nature as we look for resources and kill plants and animals regardless of the consequences.Aronofsky reunites with his regular collaborators Matthew Libatique and Clint Mansell and both men continue to do excellent work for the director. Libatique easily moves up to epic cinematography, showing the large scale of the empty decaying world and the forest created by Noah as well as inventive shots with silhouettes and time lapse photography. Mansell continues to supply excellent music and provides an epic score.Aronofsky easily steps up to large scale production, giving us a large battle in the middle of the film, moments of violence and works well with CGI, mixing it with the large set for the Ark. Aronofsky gives us some beautiful visuals, with the angels having a golden glow, visions of the Garden of Eden and the Watchers have a classic slow-mo look to them as they move with a jerky motion.Noah is not a film for everyone as the fundamental audiences of both the religious and atheist will dismiss the film as propaganda for and against religion, but it is a film that fans of Aronofsky will enjoy and it is a great addition to his filmography.Noah is not only Russell Crowe's second film about religious redemption and punishment, it is also his second film he gets to sing. Fortunately for our ears he only sings one lullaby this time round.
This film is okay, but should have been a lot better. This film tackles the origins of the Hulk and focuses on Bruce Banner's relationship with his birth father and his obsession for power. This film is a bold attempt, trying to be dark, serious and psychological and looks at issues such as child abuse and emotional problems.The Hulk starts in the 1960s on an American Army Base in the middle of the desert. David Banner was experienting on gamma radiation and its uses to healing tissue. He was unable to get to experiment on humans so does it on himself. His son Bruce inherits these abilities from his father and David Banner starts to experiment on his son. The film then fast forwards where Bruce also starts to experiment with Gamma Radiation with Betty Ross. During an accident Bruce becomes the Hulk and he is captured by the army, under the command of General Ross. However, the Hulk escapes and runs amok in the desert before heading off to San Francisco, looking for Betty. The army also captured David Banner and he starts to develop powers himself, and is able to absorb matter and use it, such as rock, water and electricity. He also experiment on gamma radiation on animals, mainly dogs.What the film does write is that it is psychological and tries to be deep. The characters are also well developed. It is a bold film. However this film has faults. It strays away from the comic book source material, which I didn't like. The film is too long, its around an two and half hours and a film like this should really no more then two hours. The villain of film was also not good, because it was David Banner who had superpowers. I didn't think it worked and that final battle between the two was disappointing. The Hulk needs villains like the Abomination and the Leader and General Ross. In this film General Ross was portrayed as a man who was doing his duty (which wasn't a bad thing). The CGI for the Hulk wasn't too good either. He has been called angry Shrek, but I saw him as a big bright green blob with a sad face, not angry. It also took too long to see the Hulk, it took 40 minutes. I personally didn't like the comic book style of shooting the film. It distracted from the action in the film and was really all just style. I didn't think it worked. Ang Lee was also not the right sort director for this film. Ang Lee is a very good director, but he is not a good action director and needs independents from the studio. He is better doing more independent style films.I personally preferred the new version to this version.
Hayao Miyazaki is a legend of Japanese animation and he has made many delightful films, including his coming-of-age fantasy Kiki's Delivery Service.Set in a world that is cross between Europe and America in both the 50s and 80s Kiki (Minami Takayama) is a 13-year-old witch who decides to complete her rite-of-passage that witches need to complete by leaving home for a year so she can become a fully fledged witch. With her talking cat Jiji (Rei Sakuma) she settles down with a friendly pregnant baker, Osono (Keiko Toda) and uses her flying skills to set up a delivery business. Whilst away from home Kiki makes friends also has to overcome her self-doubts as she tries to help everyone she meets.Kiki's Delivery Service is a charming, delightful film that is filled with wit and humour whilst also being very heartfelt as a young girl tries to make her way in the film. As you would expect from Miyazaki the animation is beautiful, colourful and detailed and they is a rich world building, giving us a wonderfully eclectic world of geography and time- period. There is plenty verbal and visual humour to please all the family and has an engaging simple story about a girl who rushes to grow up but finds out the journey and reality is much harder then she imagined.Filled with excellent music and Miyazaki signature style and look Kiki's Delivery Service is a lovely little film for the whole family. Whilst Spirited Away is still my favourite Miyazaki film but they is a richness in the simplicity of this film.
Come and See is a bleak and violence look of the Second World War in the small nation of Belarussia in the USSR. It is a powerful, tough but rewarding watch.The film focuses on Florya (Aleksei Kravchenko), a teenage boy, I guess around 16, who finds a Soviet rifle buried in his village. He is quickly recruited into the Soviet Partisans to join the fight against the Nazis. As the troops are about to leave their base in the forest Florya's commander decides to leave the young man behind. Florya befriends a young, but mad girl, Glasha (Olga Mironova) who was fancied by all the men in the base. Both head back to Florya's village but find that the whole population, including his family had been murdered by the Germans. Florya withdraws and joins a small platoon, leaving Glasha behind. After the platoon is killed Florya ends up in another village just in time for to the Nazis exterminate the population.Come and See is a war film, but not in the traditional way. You don't see any set piece battles. The director, Elem Klimov, treats the film as an art house film, focusing on Florya's character, lost of innocent, and physical ageing. Many shots focuses on character faces and is shot in a grim style, a symbol of the war. The main theme of is the destruction and madness of war. It show how horrible the war on the Eastern front was, with massive civilian casualties. In historical terms the Germans scored a big own goal because the Soviet population hated Stalin and his regime. Their treated the Germans are liberators, but the Germans never used this public support and ended up killing a large proportion of the population. The character of Glasha to me represents the madness, but surprising incitement, of war. Compared to Florya who was innocent and looses it during the film. Their is also a religious subtext to the film. The title Come and See is a reference of 'The Apocalypse of John'. During the film the Horsemen of the Apocalypse are referenced. The title could also mean seeing the apocalypse that the Nazis were causing. Finally whilst watching the film it sort of reminded me of the Medieval period, with the Partisan forces living in a forest in wooden shacks, the villages being medieval in style, with technology and the wooden houses, to the athorities the Nazis forced on the locals.It is a powerful film about the madness of war. A must see.
In 2002 Robin Williams moved away from comedy acting, going towards more serious roles in One Hour Photo and Insomnia. He should have stayed doing these sorts of roles.One Hour Photo is a story of obsession and loneliness, about a sad man who just craves acceptations. The plot of the film is about Sy (Robin Williams), a man who works in SavMart (a Walmart/KMart type department store) on the photo booth. Sy is a man who takes great pride in his work and likes to get to know his customers. There is one family he takes a particular interest in, the Yorkins. During the film he becomes more obsessed, making his own copies of their photos, looking at them when he can, placing them on the wall of his flat and even said that he is an uncle to Jake, the son of the family. He is obsessed because he sees them as the prefect family and wants to be apart of it. He goes to such extremes to stalk the family, and fantasises being apart it. However, he discovers that the family isn't as prefect as he first thought, and he world falls apart, losing his job and sets out to get revenge.As I said, the main themes of the film are obsession and lonely. Robin Williams and writer/director Mark Romanek show this very effectively, and very real. It was very believable. On the outside Sy seemed like a nice friendly man, who just cared about people. However he really is seeking acceptation and company. Slowly during the film Sy becomes more psycho. Mark Romanek did a very good writing job and his director showed skill. They were good acting performances from Connie Nielsen, Michael Vartan, Gary Cole and Dylan Smith. However, most of my praise has to go to Robin Williams who does give a very chilling performance and should do more serious roles. Some scenes were unconformable to watch, but that was the reaction that the audience is meant to feel. The film does loose it a little in the final act, but I feel Romanek did handle the film well and it works well. I recommend it if you like this type of him.
Whilst I paid to see Fantastic Four, I didn't make the same mistake twice, and only saw this film on a place from Sydney to Singapore. I was warned by a friend of mine that this film was bad, and he was right. I personally think that Fantastic Four is a weaker comic book compared to Marvel's other series like Spider-man, X-Men, Iron Man, the Incredible Hulk and even the Punisher, but it's no excuse for making a bad film.The film starts off with Reed Richards and Sue Storm about to marry each other and it is seen as the biggest wedding of the decade. At the same time there are strange things are happened across the globe. During the wedding a strange silver creature flies through New York and is followed by the Human Touch. After contact with the Silver Surfer the Human Touch has the ability to swap powers with any of the other members of the Fanstatic Four. Reed Richards discovers that a whole line of planets had been destroyed and that it looked like Earth was next. He also discovers that Earth only had a week before it would be destroyed, and the Fanstantic Four end up having to fight with the US Army in London and the Black Forest. Dr. Doom also returns, and he is fascinated by the power of the Silver Surfer. The Fantansic Four end up having to fight the Silver Surfer, the Army and Dr. Doom.Like the first film the casting is awful, Jessica Alba is too young to play Sue Storm and is just there to get naked, Ioan Gruffudd can't act and who though that Julian McMahon should play Dr. Doom should not belong in films. At times it is even worst because the relationship between the Human Touch and the Thing had been toned down, so you lose the comedy value. Dr. Doom is no longer metal and he just a good looking guy in a hood; completely missing the point. There are massive plot holes, such as the Americans having an army base in Russia: I really don't see that happening. The Special Effects were good, but that not a good reason to see a film and there are better actions scenes in films such as in the Spider-man series. I think that Fantanstic Four is not an easy comic book to put on screen. It is hard to make it realistic, but fans of the comic books don't really want to see a kids film. Some aspects should have not have been in the film, like the Fantanstic Four aircraft which was just silly. This film cannot appeal to anyone. The only think that really made me smile was Stan Lee's cameo and the first chase between of the Silver Surfer was well done, but that's it.If you want to watch a good fun comic book film, watch the Spider-man Series, or Iron Man or the Incredible Hulk. Avoid the Fantanstic Four Series. I wouldn't be surprised that a third film is already in the pipeline but I hope if they do it they start again and give it to people who know what they are doing.
I watched this film partly because I heard good things about it, but mainly because Gavin Hood is going to do the Wolverine film, and after seeing this I am at least confidence of his abilities.Tsotsi (Presley Chweneyagae) focuses on a young man nick-named Tsotsi, Afrikaans for thug. He is a leader of a small group in Soweto, the poverty stricken slums of Johannesburg. His group commit crime in the city, especially robbery. After one of his group needlessly murder's a man Tsotsi ends up beating up his friend Boston (Mothusi Magano). Tsotsi heads to the rich district of the city. He steals a car and shoots the owner. Whilst driving off he discovery's the owner's young baby in the back. Tsotsi is forced to look after the child and grow up question. As he does this he had to deal with a power-struggle within his gang and the police manhunt looking for the child.Tsotsi is a well-crafted film and it deals with a lot of sub-plots in a short film. Tsotsi starts as an unlikeable character, but the skill of the writer/director show how he became the way he did and you feel sympathy for him. Tsotsi also softens as a character and he does change. Many of the other characters are also made interesting and given depth, especially Boston and Miriam (Terry Pheto). The acting was strong throughout the film. Some elements of the plot are a little far-fetch, but the general premise can happen. The film has to look at a number of themes, from poverty, parenthood, HIV and Aids and coming-of-age.Tsotsi is a fine film, and this was the reason why Gavin Hood got the Wolverine gig. If you like this then A Clockwork Orange, City of God and Slumdog Millionaire should appeal to you.
Whilst filming The Imaginarium of Doctor Parnassus Heath Ledger unfortunately died and there was the possibility that this film may have become one of the great unfinished film. But with respect and great determination Terry Gilliam and his cast and crew carried on to make this very strange, surreal fantasy film.In London there is a travelling show that is headed by the 1000-year-old immortal Doctor Parnassus (Christopher Plummer) who has the power to take people into an incredible fantasy world. His entourage contents his 15-year-old daughter, Valentina (Lily Cole), his confidant Percy (Verne Troyer) and sleight of hand Anton (Andrew Garfield), who is in love with Valentina. Doctor Parnassus keeps making bets with the devil (AKA Mr. Nick) (Tom Waits) who gave him his immortality. But as a result of the bets Doctor Parnassus has to give Mr. Nick his daughter on her 16th Birthday. If Doctor Parnassus is able to get five more souls before Mr. Nick does, then Valentina would be safe. But as the troupe struggles they save Tony (Heath Ledger) a man with amnesia would has the give of the gab and he could help Parnassus in his plight.Terry Gilliam is a great director with an great imagination. His films can be filled with darkness and light and he is not afraid to give his films a bittersweet ending. He is a director who stands by his conviction and willing to fight with producers. But he is a very divisive director and his films certainly do not appeal to everyone. The Imaginarium of Doctor Parnassus will please Gilliam fans but newcomers may not be won over.The Imaginarium of Doctor Parnassus is darkly funny and surreal beyond belief. The imagine world was deliberately child like, being brightly colourful to dark and horrid: it reminded me of Peter Jackson's version of Heaven in The Lovely Bones. There are some usual Gilliam traits like a song and dance number involving the police and there is a lot of good dialogue. The horse drawn giant cart looked like something out of Harry Potter and the special effects were of a high and imaginative level. Gilliam also keeps the film as a fast paced, multi-layered film, with most of the characters filled with good and dark elements. And at the same time there is a clash between the grim version of London to the colourful world of the Imaginarium. It is a strange film but it is really enjoyable.The film is also filled with excellent acting and it is a strong performance from Ledger anyway. Cole shows come promise as an actress and Garfield was really good as a kid suffering from jealousy and unrequited love. The filmmakers employed a clever device to carry on the film: Ledger had finished all his filming in London and only had to film when he was in the Imaginarium world. To overcome the problem Tony turned into a character people wanted him to be and Johnny Depp, Jude Law and Colin Farrell took on the role. Depp and Law even looked a lot like Ledger and Depp was really good in the film. Depp even used the Jack Sparrow voice for the role. Plummer is a veteran actor and of course was going to be good and Tom Waits is dark and snaked tongued as the devil and his performance reminded me of John Malkovich.Overall, 7.5/10.
John Woo is of course a legend for the Hong Kong film industry and one of the great action directors because of his heroic bloodshed genre he created. Hard Boiled is considered one of his best and it is certainly a very entertaining film just for its action scenes.Officer "Tequlia" Yuen (Chow Yun-Fat) is a Hong Kong police detective whom partner gets killed in a restaurant shoot out and he sets out to get the Triad leader that was responsible, Johnny Wong (Anthony Wong Chau-Sang). But when his boss Superintendent Pang (Philip Chan) orders Tequlia to stop his investigation, so he goes on a one man war against the Triads. Johnny has also recruited a top assassin and enforcer, Tony (Tony Leung). But it turns out he has his own secret and Tequlia and Tony ends up working to together bring down Johnny.Hard Boiled is around three major action set pieces, each getting bigger then the previous one. They were inventive and bloody. The restaurant had a tense had a tense build up with the boiling kettles, the police on there stake out and it became a big shoot out in a tight location and many innocent people get killed. It was almost like a Bruce Lee film, particularly with the score. The warehouse was just fun seeing men riding around on motorbikes, shooting people and also shows how one man could take on a small army. And the hospital set piece is just a massive pitch battle between the police and Triads, it was almost epic in scale because of the amounts of explosions, blood and bullets flying about. Whilst Woo does overuse slow motion and bullet sparks sometimes he does know how to craft an action scene, knowing where to focus, how to edit so you could follow what happens. I particularly like the long tracking shots in the hospital as all the action and carnage goes on all round, focusing on our two heroes. It is also very refreshing to see a film that does not need CGI, a film that actually uses stunt work and real special effects and it was shot very much like other action films from the 80s and 90s using a rather dark filter to it and most of the action takes place at night. Woo knows how to move the camera and does bring to live his own sense of hyper-realism. Hong Kong detectives seem to be very trigger happy.The plot itself is simply but Woo does not treat the audience like idiots. It is simply a tough cop going by his own rules and sets out to bring down a Triad boss any way possible. Chow Yun-Fat plays the role very well and his character is shown to be tough, ruthless cop who does have guilt about the lost of partner. He is also shown to have good with Teresa Mo as they sing pop songs together as they decode a message from a undercover police officer. The whole undercover police officer subplot who has to do violence acts reminded me of Infernal Affairs but it possibly because that film was also set in Hong Kong.Hard Boiled does suffers from some cop film clichés, particularly the police chief telling his rouge officer but this is a very well made, entertaining action film. This is a film that has a lot of John Woo's traits like slow-mo, reflections, gun-fu especially using two guns at once and playing soft music over a bloody action scene (a trick he used in Face/Off).
Liam Neeson continues his long streak of stoic law enforcement roles who have demons in their past with the old fashioned detective story. Neeson stars as Matt Scudder, an ex-NYPD Detective who has become a unlicensed private detective and a recovering alcoholic who is hired by a drug trafficking (Dan Stevens) to find out who kidnapped and murdered his wife. As Matt investigates the crime he discovers this is not the first time the criminals struck and he needs to find them before they strike again.A Walk Among Tombstones is a grim and gritty crime thriller that should please fans of the genre. Writer/director Scott Frank brings a 70s style to the film, using grey filters and sets the film in the more run down areas of Brooklyn and Queens and shows really horrific crimes. The cast is strong and many of the characters are painted with shades of grey. Though Neeson is good he is hardly stretching himself.A Walk Among Tombstone is a well made thriller that is fearless with its portrayal of violence and as an investigation story. But this is material that could have easily worked on television and there are nitpicks like the film setting itself in 1999 when it could have been set in now and they is a weird moment when an upbeat pop song when the kidnappers see pick a victim when it could and should have been more sinister.
After the positive critical reaction to John Ajvide Lindqvist's debut novel the film rights were quickly brought by Swedish producer John Nordling and his company EFTI, with Lindqvist writing the script. The initial reaction was extremely positive and buzz quickly built up, with the film winning big name supporters like Guillermo del Toro and Mark Kermode. The film did very well internationally as well as Sweden and an American remake is now in the middle of Post-Production.Oskar (Kåre Hedebrant) was a small 12-year-old boy living in the suburbs of Stockholm. He was bullied at school and at night he acts like Travis Bickle, fantasying about revenge with a knife and following murder stories in the newspaper. Oskar befriends his new neighbour, Eli (Lina Leandersson), a 12-year-old girl, who acts very strangely, such as wearing light clothes in the middle of winter. Eli lives with her 'father' Håkan (Per Ragnar) and the Eli and Oskar start to become very close, with Eli giving Oskar more confidence. But there are strange and bloody murders in the suburb, with the locals investigating them. Eli too harbours a dark secret, her thirst blood.In recent years the vampire myth has regarded popularity, the biggest example being Twilight. There are other examples like Underworld, Blade, Buffy, etc But whilst those films and TV series are either very action based or Twilight was romance based, Let the Right One In is made as a horror film. They are effective moments throughout as Eli and Håkan stalk their victims and the filmmakers did not hold back on the violence. Yet the director Tomas Alfredson did not just make a simple horror film. The real power of the film is the relationship between the two young outcasts. His direction was perfect: soft and tender, with great cinematography and fitting music to add to the tone. The urban winter setting added to the atmosphere in a film that was dark and moody. It was touching how Oskar and Eli become close and are both Hedebrant and Leadnderssen were wonderful in their roles. Hopefully those two will have long and successful careers. Alfredson also knows the basic rule that all writers and directors should follow: have compelling characters. A horror film can only work if you are interested in the characters. The vampire story line was effective, with Eli seeming to be the only one of her species and shows her as a outcast. She is a very dark and ruthless character when hunting, with Oskar being the only person she cares about. This film was a character drama.As well as the vampire storyline there were some good sub-plot: the main one being the bullying. It was well captured as the bullies shown as nasty boys whom behaviour gets worst throughout the film. Other story lines include Oskar's relationship with his divorced parents, as he struggles to balance the two.Let the Right One In is clearly one of the best horror films that been made in recent years. It is as Shane Meadows said: this was what Twilight should have been.
Hollywood have often found subjects in history and have try to make it into an American story. World War II is often a subject that is tackled to make the Americans look great with the expenses of the role the British and other allies had. This time Hollywood focuses on Japanese history in 1870s where the Japanese starts to modernise, industrialise and contact the rest of the world. It makes out that the Americans played an important part, despite that it was the British and the Germans were actually involved.Set in 1876 and 1877, Captain Nathan Algren (Tom Cruise) is a veteran of the American Civil War and Indian Wars. He performs for audiences in San Francisco and suffers from alcoholism and war guilt. He receives an offer from his out sergeant Zebulon Gant (Billy Connolly) and former commander, Lieutenant Colonel Bagley (Tony Goldwyn) to go to Japan to help train their new army to fight the Samurai resistance, fighting against modernisation. Early on he makes some progress when training the Japanese conscripts, similar to Edward Zwick's earlier film Glory (including having an Irish sergeant and shooting a pistol to show the soldiers are not ready for battle). But Algren and his regiment are sent to fight the samurais before their were ready. During the battle the new Army is easily defeated and Algren is capture. The leader of the Samurais, Lord Katsumoto (Ken Watanabe) keeps Algren alive, hoping to learn about his enemy. Algren is trapped in a small village for a whole winter, but Katsumoto and the village teach him about the samurai culture. Algren goes naviee, and ends up joining the samurais, improving his fighting style and respecting the fighters.Edward Zwick is a respected director, having done some good films in his career. He is an action director, but his films do have a moral core behind them, such as Glory and Blood Diamond. The action in this film is bloody, and well executed. It is excellent viewing in that sense. His cinematographer John Toll also shoots some lovely scenes, with excellent landscapes of New Zealand (a stand in for Japan). Hans Zimmer also conduces a good score to the film. Zwick does show Algern and Katsumoto as out and out good whilst Bagley and the Emperor's adviser Omura (Masato Harada) as the true bad guys in a typical Hollywood fashion other characters are shown to be more mixed. The Emperor (Shichinosuke Nakamura) is shown to be a weak-willed young man who needs advise, but respects Katsumoto and is only bringing about modernisation because he thinks that is what is best for Japan. Timothy Spall plays an English interpreter Simon Graham: he starts out as the Hollywood stereotype of an Englishman (which I hate), but shows to be a character who respects both sides and is a more realistic character (except for the Hollywood Englishness). There is a really good cast to the film (except Billy Connolly). Ken Watanabe earned an Oscar nod for his performance and he was really good: he is a talented actor. Tom Cruise offers the typical Tom Cruise performance, which is pretty decent and he is good in the action scenes. They are a number of talented Japanese actors in the film who performed well. Zwick has been good at casting in the past.This is an interesting subject of history, and an area which isn't very well known by people in the West. The film was very popular in Japan and was praised for it's handling of Japanese culture. But there are historical inaccuracies (which I will also score down a film if they are major). As said it was the British and the German who was trained and built up the Japanese military because Britain had the best navy at the time, and the Germans had the best army. The Japanese saw Britain as a model because they were island nations. Japan's first modern alliance was with the British in 1902. Japan also modernised because they did not want to end up being like China who was seen as the sick man of Asia and was being craved up by European nations. Russia was a serious threat to Japan. The Bushidō code also had a darker side to it, which we saw during the Second World War. This was skipped over during the film.The film also reminded me Glory and also trying to be a bit like Dances with Wolves goes East. Zwick did lift some scenes from Glory and placed them in The Last Samurai. That was a bit lazy. Zwick also seemed to try and be like David Lean and Akira Kurosawa when making this film, especially the latter. He wanted to make a grand epic like those two, but more violence. He should have just tried to make a film in his own way.It's a decent enough film, but I think it would have been better as a Japanese film, not a Hollywood film about Japan.
Dragon is a semi-fictionalized bio-pic of Bruce Lee, the most famous martial artist and one of the most famous film stars of all time. It tells the story of Lee's youth in Hong Kong, before going to America where he is a dishwisher, goes to university, meets his wife Linda, sets up a successful school, writes his book on the philosophy of material arts and becomes a successful actor in Hong Kong before dying at the age of 32.This film is based on Linda Lee's book and she was involved with the production, but this film does have a artistic license with the events of Lee's life, especially of the inner demons he has to fight and some of the fight that Lee fought.This is the only Hollywood film that I am aware of that looks at the life of Bruce Lee. As well as the fight scene which were done with relish, the film goes deeper then that. There is the obviously love story between Bruce and Linda, there is the philosophy of Bruce Lee and his style of material arts which he developed and there is the fact that Bruce Lee had to battle against racism in America and the politics of the film industry. There were moments of comedy as well, which were decent for a small laugh.Jason Scott Lee (no relation) and Lauren Holly both offer good performances in this film, but I think Rob Cohen, the director of later hits the Fast and Furious, xXx (terrible film) and the Mummy: Curse of the Dragon Emperor, did his best work with this film. He shows that he could easily direct fight scenes and able that he could balance it out with personal drama.If you are interested in Bruce Lee or material arts this film is worth a look.
The Nightmare Before Christmas was a big hit when it first came out in the early 90s and has had generations of fans ever since. In 2006 there was a 3D re-release of the film and it has become a cultural icon: even people who have not seen the film knows elements of it, you can buy merchandise and hoodies with Jack Skellington and I even met a girl at a costume party dressed as Sally from the film. It has even be parodied a number of times.Jack Skellington (Chris Sarandon/singing voice Danny Elfman) is the Pumpkin King of Halloween Town. Ever year he leads frightening festivities and he does it successful. But he is growing tired of his role and he longs for something fresh. After wondering off, Jack stumbles into Christmas Town and after seeing the joy and happiness of this world Jack decides he wants the creatures of Halloween Town to take part. He gets the creatures to prepare everything and kidnaps Santa Claus (Ed Ivory), but Sally (Catherine O'Hara) has a vision that his noble plan will end in disaster.The Nightmare Before Christmas came out of the mind of Tim Burton, starting as a poem before being expanded upon. This is one of Burton's best films, which is ironic because he was only the producer and created the story. But The Nightmare Before Christmas is still very Burtonsque in its look, very dark and Gothic look. Henry Selick is a great stop motion animator and his designs are great for the film. The animation flows brilliantly and I particularly like how the characters moved.The story is simple and very focused, and Selick delivers a fun fast paced film. It has a short running time but it works and Danny Elfman wrote and song some brilliant songs. The songs are energetic, fun and simply delightful and it what you would want from a film like this. They are catchy but more importantly well written and fitting to the animation and the events of the film. The Nightmare Before Christmas is also funny, whether it's a funny line or a set piece like with the Easter Bunny. Even if you do not laugh out load this is a film where you will have a smile throughout.The characters are also great, being developed and likable. The creature designs are wonderful and imaginative, whether it's the main two characters or many of the supporting characters, like the Mayor or the wheelchair mad scientist. There are influences of other works, like Frankenstein, classic Universal monsters and classic children's fears and stories. The Nightmare Before Christmas is a creative film, with wonderful art, a great Gothic design and is just an uplifting experience.
Easy A was one of the big comedy hits of 2010, a film with a low budget that made a healthy profit and earn a lot of critical acclaim. It was also a film that helped confirm Emma Stone's raising star and let Will Gluck wash away the nasty film Fired Up from our collective consciousness.Olive Penderghast (Emma Stone) is a 17-year-old high school that is invisible in her high school in Ojai, California. Her life changes when a rumour spreads like wildfire that she lost her virginity and many forms of the tale emerge. Her gay friend Brandon (Dan Byrd) asks her if she pretends to have sex with him so that would end all the bullying he suffers. Soon Olive embraces her new identity as the school slut and turns it into a parody and gets paid to pretend she sleep or committed other acts to people who need to enhance their reputations. But soon everything starts to spiral out of control, including being the target of fundamental Christians led by Marianne (Amanda Bynes).The big positive of Easy A is Emma Stone is a natural comedian, delivering her lines with expert timing and just seemed so natural and real in the role. She is a character is wise beyond her years and is a very smart and self confession character, willing to take on the rumours head-on. Will Gluck has a moment of directional flashes with slowing how the rumours spread around the school. Bert V. Royal also does deliver a witty script with good lines throughout.My big problem with Easy A is a lot of the characters felt like over-the-top characterchures what they are meant to be. We got a fundamentalist Christian that runs her sect like a cult, who dresses in stereotypical female preppy way who thinks everything that does not stay in line to her narrow world view then it is a sin and that everything was God's will: if the character was Jewish or Muslim it would be considered highly offensive. I cannot picture a character like that being liked or popular or influential in any way and if anything would have been told shut or simply ignored by most of the students. As well this is a film set in California, where even Republicans tend to be are socially fairly liberal. It would have made more sense to set Easy A in a more typically Republican/Socially Conservative state like in the Bible Belt or in the Mid-West. Olive's parents are actually very annoying with their banner and interaction and it really did not feel like a real parent-daughter relationship. They just seem too causal about what was going on with their daughter.Emma Stone is meant to be playing a character that is an outsider, a character who is ignore by the majority of her peers. Stone is a glorious, striking red hair, how could boys not interested in her? She would easily be a popular girl and in any reality Olive would have lots of friends, whether she was a cheerleader or a alternative click. This clique system that is shown in films does really exist and it would be a much more mixed picture of friends. Plus the rumour that spreads and mutates is that a 17-year-old girl looses her virginity to an older man, woo: like that has never happened before. If it turned out the girl was only 14 then I think her year/grade would be talk or if the girl had a more down to earth look and a quiet personality. A character like Olive in reality would not care, she would just carry on with does would not worry about what people think about her because she knows the truth.I believe that the double standard the film show is true, that if a boy has sex in high school he is a stud, become popular but if a girl has sex she is a slag, someone who become a source of notoriety. But most of the time boys lie and big themselves up.Stone also uses the word 'twat' and I was annoyed because I though if they use the word at least pronounce it properly. And I question why is Malcolm MacDowell in this and why does the school have a English principal? Were there no American/Canadian actors available or even an actor that could do an American accent? Overall Easy A is a decent film, it does have good dialogue and it funny, but it is not the great comic masterpiece some critics seem to think it is. It is a fantasy world, not a real picture of what high school life is like.6.5/10
Taken is good example of American television challenge cinema for quality. This mini-series is brilliantly written and has a lot of depth to it. They must have been a lot of research done and the writer must have had one hell of an imagination.The show is set from the 1940s to the modern day (which was 2002/2003) and set across America. From the 40s aliens started to abduct humans and generations of the same families suffer from it. In 1947 an alien spacecraft crashes at Roswell and the American government get interested in these events. The programmes focus on three families: the Clarkes, the Keys and the Crawfords. The Keys men had suffered from being abducted and try and find ways to stop it and test themselves to their limits. The Clarkes get mixed when a mysterious stranger arrives at their farm in Texas and impregnates Sally, the mother and the son from the affairs has special powers. The Crawfords where the family who get involved and become very influential in the government programme in investigating the abductions.This programme was well plotted, with some good actors and excellent production values. This was the programme who discovered Dakota Fanning and helped made her a star.The programme also tackles ideas about conspiracies, the role of the military and freedom of the press. There are scientific theory being looked at and concepts of time and space. There is a little issue about the use of Nazi Scientists by the Americans. Finally there are historical events being looked at such as the Cuban Military Crisis, the Iranian Hostage Crisis, the End of the Cold, the Afghanistan invasion, Cold War paranoia and psychological warfare.
300 is based on the graphic novel by Frank Miller about the Battle of Thermopylae. It is not a factual account but I like to think of it as the fun fantasy version of the battle.The film is about a great act of bravery, about soldiers knowing that they were going to die in the battle, no matter what happened.The plot of the film is that the Persian Empire is looking to expand and looks toward Greece to do this. The Greek states, including Sparta and Athens refuse to do this and prepare for war. Unforuately for the Spartans they can go to work without the Oracle's say so and the priests who control her were being bride by the Persians. King Leonidas (Gerald Butler) does the only think he can do and do to war with his personal bodyguard of 300 soldiers. On the way they join up with other Greek troops and go off to battle, seeing the atrocities of the Persian army on the way. At the time there is politicking going on in Sparta to try and get the whole army involved in the war. One factor is led up Queen Gorgo (Lena Headey) who is trying to convict the Sparta council to back the King, whilst the evil Theron (Dominic Wood) said that Leonidas is breaking the law and should be tried for treason. Theron is also bribed by the Persians.What makes this film great is the visuals. The battle scenes were really well done and Zack Synder shows that he is a good visual director. The film was done in a sightly washed off look (similer to Letters of Iwo Jima) and shot in the same style as Sin City (Frank Miller also wrote those graphic novels). The film goes to extremes, it is violence and it shows monsters in the battle such as giants, rhinos, elephants and deformed men in the elite part of the Persian army (the Immoratals). The film also has some great ready made one liners like 'This is Sparta' and 'This will not be over quickly, you will not enjoy this, I am not your king'. Some critics have criticised the film for it being a right-wing fantasy and look for political meanings, some have criticised the actor but I think it is fine, it was heavily criticised by the Iranian government and for having a homo-erotic context (a fun part of the Times review was that it makes no attempt to hide its homo-erotic content).It is a cross between Sin City, Gladitor and Lord of the Rings. I say sit back and enjoy the ride.
Despicable Me is the first feature film for Illumination Entertainment and it was a hit in 2010, a popular film for families and has made the minions a very popular pop culture creation.In a world of sci-fi and supervillains a new villain, Vector (Jason Segal) announces himself by stealing the Great Pyramid of Giza. Gru (Steve Carell), an older supervillain has had his thunder stolen and to reclaim his position as top dog by planning the biggest heist in history, by stealing the moon! But to do this Gru needs a shrink ray and he has formed a rivalry with Vector who steals it off Gru after he stole it from the Chinese. But Gru is not a villain who could be kept down for long and plans to steal the shrink ray by adopting three orphan girls, the sharp witted Margo (Miranda Cosgrove), the tomboyish Edith (Dana Gaier) and the innocent Agnes(Elsie Kate Fisher). Despite Gru's ambitions he slowly starts to warm to the girls.Despicable Me is basically a cross between a Saturday morning cartoon and the Looney Tunes. The film has the design of a Saturday morning cartoon, the lair, the weapons, the design and the plot. Many of the designs of the vehicles and the weapons were overblown and felt like something a 10-year-old boy would create, and I am saying that as complement. There is a clear influence from Pixar's The Incredibles in its design and the music which borrows some Bond ques and basic set up and there are some parallels to Megamind (which was released in the same year) about a villain who finds his good side.The style of humour is very physical and visual: there are plenty of slapstick humour, particularly involving the minions and their bickering and the experimentations on them. One great example is early on in the film is when Gru tries to break into Vector's home/lair which looked like it could have been a Looney Tune short. There are some verbal jokes and The Bank of Evil offers the only real cultural/political joke.The script itself is screen writing 101, the structure is predictable and Gru is a typical character who a dream he thinks he wants (i.e. stealing the Moon) and what he really wants is a family. His dream during the film changes as he realises what is really important to him. The film does do a good job at setting up why going to the Moon is so important to Gru and it is more then just make a name for himself.Like most animated films these days Despicable Me has a big name cast. Carell was solid as Gru, giving him an ambiguous Eastern European actor. He gave us a character who does changes during the film. Russell Brand was surprising good as Gru's scientist and friend, his voice was unrecognising and he was funny throughout. There are strong supporting characters played by Kristen Wigg and Will Arnett but Segal was a disappointment as he felt like he was just playing teenage Marshall from How I Met Your Mother. Also Julie Andrews' casting as Gru's mother was pointless seeing she was only in the film for three screens.The girls were very well defied with the personality and felt more like real children in the context of this world. This is especially the case for Margo as she acts as the leader of the girls but still acts as a child when she is around Gru. But I would have thought Edith would want to take her hat off sometimes.Despicable Me is a fun and enjoyable film for the whole family. There is plenty of slapstick humour and fun designs and whilst it is a simple affair it does not patronises children.7.5/10
After Sean Connery left the Bond Franchise for good (I do not count Never Say Never Again), the series was in need for a new lead actor. They were many candidates, including Burt Reynolds, Michael Billington and Robert Wagner. They was even talk about casting an unknown, someone who had serviced in the army or navy, but that idea never went anywhere. It was Roger Moore who had found fame through the television series the Saint. Moore was a different type of Bond, making the character more comedic and the plots became sillier under his reign. I'm not a fan of his style of Bond, leading to some bad films like Moonraker. However, Live and Let Die was a good film and a good start to Moore's career as Bond.Live and Let Die starts with the murder of three British agents investigating the Prime Minister of San Monique (a fictional country in the Caribbean) and his links to New York gangster Mr. Big. Bond is sent by M to New York to investigate and Felix Leiter is assigned to help. When he arrives into the city Mr. Big sends an assassin to kill Bond, before all his people monitor his movement. When Bond meets Big in the Harlam he also meets his psychic, Solitaire, who can predict the future and see events far away using Tarot Cards. When Bond escapes he goes to San Monique and finds out that the Dr. Kananga, the Prime Minister was growing Poppy Flowers and then supplied it to Mr. Big who made it into Herion and sold it in the US. As well, Solitaire was attracted to Bond, and Bond, is also on a little personal mission. However, her powers are linked to her virginity, and with Bond around, it won't be round for long. Bond and Solitaire team up and go to New Orleans and working with Felix to stop Mr. Big and Dr. Kananga.One of the things that I like about Live and Let Die is that plot is realistic, it's hardly out of the realms of possibility. It could easily happen. As well the action is non-stop, and with very enjoyable scenes, from the boat chase in Louisiana, to all the fights, to the fight at the end of the film. They is sadly no Q in this film, but Bond does have a gadget, a magnetic watch, something that isn't unrealistic. As well, whilst this film is light hearted, it's not campy, and most of the jokes work. Humour isn't overplayed or substitutes action, which is what Bond is all about. This film also has a good villains, which is important to all good Bond films, who has some very good henchmen. It is also pretty violence for a PG, so it would be advisable to not let young children watch this film. Finally they is a very good song performed by Paul McCarthey.However, there is negative aspects to the film. It is surreal, which is basically weird for a Bond film; whilst I think most of the time it just be faked by the villains, they are others which don't work, like the dancing at the funeral in the beginning of the film. The film is heavily influenced by blaxploitation, which in itself not bad, is felt to be a little forced. It also shows how bad 70s fashion was. The film has been criticised for its portrayal of Voodooism, focusing on negative stereotypes. As well, at times the film is borderline racist and is they is only one black face who was a good guy. As well, I did not like the character of the Louisanian sheriff played by Clifton James, who was only in the film for comedic relief. I can accept it in this film, but there was no need to re-introduce him in The Man With the Golden Gun.This is, as I said is Moore's best Bond, and it tries to be a down to earth in the scale of the villains plot. It has good action and this should have been the way that Moore's Bond should have gone, and not the campy route which it ended up taking, i.e. The Man With the Golden Gun.
Pixar is known for being one of the best studios around and certainly the best animation studio, making many films that are critical and commercial hits. But Pixar's stellar record took a big blow with the release of Cars 2, Pixar's first critical flop and commercially one of Pixar's weakest films. They needed strong follow-up and whilst its rating is not as strong as high as other Pixar Brave is still a very delightful family film.In a medieval Scottish kingdom Merida (Kelly Macdonald) is a rebellious teenage princess who is skilled at archery and wants to decide her own fate. But her mother, the regal and diplomatic Queen Elinor (Emma Thompson) who wants her to act as a princess and teaches her everyday how to act. When she humiliates her mother during a ceremony Merida runs off into the woods and meets a witch (Julie Walters) who promises she can change Merida's destiny with a spell. But of course when there are witches and magic around things go array and Merida ends up with more then she bargained for.The animation is stunning to look at. The designs of the people, scenery and buildings were fantastic, being very colourful and detailed: it is so noticeable when you look at Merida's ginger hair. The directors are able to get to sink the audience into a wonderful medieval world and there are great camera movements that make the action flow wonderfully.Brave had a troubled production: it was originally going to be the first Pixar film to be directed by a woman, Brenda Chapman before being replaced by Mark Andrews. The film was originally intended to be a Brother Grimm's style fairy that was called The Bear and the Bow and was set to star Reese Witherspoon. What we got was a typical Disney Princess story of a young girl who wants to defy the conventions of her society and gets mixed up in a magical plot. There are certainly elements of films like The Little Mermaid and Aladdin as well as homages to Pinocchio and Robin, but the production was able to twist these elements. There is no wicked stepmother character trying to seize the throne or be evil and the witch is more misguided then evil. The basic themes of the mother-daughter, the misunderstanding between the two as Queen Elinor wants to do the best for her daughter and her kingdom. The other theme is the characters that have to uphold they role of duty and ceremony whilst wanting freedom to control their lives. It is a balancing act the characters have to learn to understand other and how they roles in society.A great voice cast was assembled for the film, Macdonald, Thompson, Billy Connery being the main three and many excellent actors like Kevin McKidd and Robbie Coltrane in minor roles. For an actress in her 30s was brilliant as teenage character, giving a real performance as she showed the range of emotions and actions the character goes through. Macdonald was a better casting choice then Witherspoon because she would have been too big of a name for the film.Brave does supply on the comedy stakes, giving us plenty of physical comedy and verbal jokes. It is really funny seeing a bear trying to be regal. It is funny film but Pixar's strength is also delivering a heart story with subtle, real emotion and some fine action sequences. The film does follow the Hero with a Thousand Face formula as both Merida and Elinor learn from their journey.The first 30 minutes and the final act are excellent pieces of cinema, with great drama and comedy, plenty of action and focused on its themes of family relationships and female empowerment. But the middle was when there was a little dip in quality. The second act is still good and better then most films, but it felt like a different film: particular the crooky witch. The witch even leaves an answering message that felt like it belonged more to a Shrek film then a Pixar or Disney film. The humour from the witch did not seem to match the rest of the film.Brave is a great family film. Pixar has made better film in the past but it is still an excellent watch shows that Pixar do put a lot of effort in their films. Boys, girls and adults will enjoy the film. It is easily the best Scottish set medieval film. Please note I really hate Braveheart!
It is election year in the United States where the President, the whole of the House of Representatives and a third of the Senate stand for election. American politics is notorious for being very bitter and negative: so it seems like a fair target for a comedy.Cam Brady (Will Ferrell) is a four term Democratic representative of the 14th district of North Carolina, based around the city of Hampton. He is running unopposed for the seat but he is in trouble after he accidentally leaves a sexually explicit message on a born-again Christian family's answering machine. His backers, the industrialists the Motch brothers (John Lithgow and Dan Aykroyd) decides that Cam is a dud and set out to find a someone to run against him. They find the nice, but naïve and weird Marty Huggins (Zach Galifianakis) to run as a Republican. The campaign quickly descends into false accusations, personal attacks and physical violence. But the Motch brothers have their own dastardly plan for Hampton.The Campaign is a hit and miss comedy, but it is mostly hit. Ferrell is the best comic performer out of the pair but both comic leads have their moments. The jokes vary from verbal, crude and swearing based, Ferrell's trademarked adlibbing and physical: the biggest laugh in the audience I was in was when the baby got punched in the face. As a political satire this is a film that lacks subtly, but to anyone who is interested in American politics you can easily see the references to negative campaigning, making false accusations that someone is a communist/socialist or an Islamic terrorist just through implication, how candidates just use any rhetoric to get elected without actually having any ideas or policies and how political campaign teams think more about image then they do about doing what they think is best for the district and the country. I personally thought the film missed a trick because I think the filmmakers should not have mentioned the political parties the candidates represented and so you could not tell them apart.The Campaign runs at a brisk 85 minutes, but near the end the film felt like it running out of steam, both story and jokes wise, near the end. The writing was not smart enough when it could have been more ambitious with its satire.It is still an enjoyable enough film for people who are fans of Will Ferrell and it is at least worth a rental.
There is no denying that the Godfather is a classic and one of the best movies ever made. It is a saga of a major Mafia father, the upper echelons and there struggles. It starts with Don Vito Corleone (Marlon Brando) on the day of his daughter's wedding and doing favours for people invited to the wedding. The films shows the outcome of these favours, including the famous sense of the horse's head in the bed. The film then shows Vito refusing to take part in selling drugs and ends up having an assassination attempt against him. The Corleone family is forced into a tuft war before peace is made. At the same time the Godfather shows Michael's (Al Panico) rise in the family, from being a bit of an outsider not wanting to get involved to becoming the head of family after Vito's death. The film shows how person relationships developed and shows the characters as real people. It shows how the Mafia would have worked in the 1950s, focusing on deal making, rising up the ranks and showing acts of violence being conducted.The gangster film was not a new genre, their were good films in the film noir period such as Scarface, Little Caesar and the Killing. However I am not aware of any major gangster films in the 60s. The Godfather focused on the characters and many different and complex plots and subplots. It was able to bring in more violence into the genre because by the late 60s films were allowed to show more violence. The film also benefits from a brilliant script, the excellent direction of Francis Ford Coppella (this film along with The Godfather Part II are his best films) and a brilliant cast. Marlon Brando was brought back into the mainstream after gaining a reputation for being an ego-maniac, and help made the careers of Al Panico, James Caan and Diane Keaton. This was also the first film I aware of focusing mainly on the Mafia and how it functions. I remember watching a document on the making of the film on Channel Four and how difficult it was for the filmmakers, fighting with the Italian-American community.The Godfather and Godfather Part II are both classics and must watch films. I admit I have not watched Godfather Part III but that because I heard it wasn't as good and ruins the first two. It has been very influential in the gangster genre afterwards. They was Once Upon A Time in America which was similar in it approach, having many story lines and themes and similar filming of violence. They was Goodfellas which forced on foot-soldiers of the Mafia and set mainly in the 60s and 70s when it was filmed in the 80s. They are also films like Casino and American Gangster, the list goes on. They are also parodies such as Family Business and programmes such as the Simpsons, Futurama and Family Guy. Finally their was the Sopranos (one of the best programmes ever made), mixing elements of the Godfather and Goodfellas. All in all the Godfather is a very important film.
Drunken Master, the film that made Jackie Chan a star. The first major martial arts film since the great Enter the Dragon.Set in Hong Kong, Freddie Wong (Jackie Chan) is a skilled material artists, but a young man who often gets in trouble, fighting with his instructor, flirting with a young woman and beating up a young thug. His father a kung-fu school owner tries to install discipline on his son but fails, so recruits the services of So Chan (Siu Tien Yuen), a notorious instructor who forces Freddie into a tough regime. Freddie even attempts to run away from So Chan, but ends up running into Thunderleg (Jang Lee Hwang), a skilled assassin and insults Freddie's father and his teaching techniques. After that Freddie goes back to So Chan and demanded to work hard with material arts, and learn So Chan's techniques. The two even form a friendship and work together whilst fighting.After the unfortunate death of Bruce Lee, Hong Kong cinema entered into the brief period of Bruceploitation where lookalikes attempted to make martial arts films, many failed. Jackie Chan did martial arts very differently, he made them comic, and the fights in Drunken Master were slapstick in nature. Some are very comical, but they are all well done and exciting to watch. Like Bruce Lee, Jackie Chan is a skilled Martial Artist and possibly the man closest to him in the film world in skill terms. Like any film they is a villain in the piece, Thunderleg who gives Jackie Chan a good challenge at the end. That scene in itself is worth watching. The plot is pretty simple, but who cares? Its still stronger then some of what Hollywood can product.The major problem with the film is some of dubbing. I hate dubbing and the fact that when the characters do speak in English they sound American, not Chinese. Also some of the humour is not to my taste.But Drunken Master is a worthy film for Martial Arts fans, especially during the golden period of the 70s.
Back in 2005 a short animated film called 9 was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Animated Short. Whilst it did not win it impressed the likes of Tim Burton and Timur Bekmambetov and the two produced the feature length version and gave director Shane Acker his feature debut.9 (Elijah Wood) is a strange rag doll creature who awakes in a post-apocalyptic city. He meets up with a similar creature, 2 (Martin Landau) who discovers 9 is carrying a talisman, but is soon captured by the Beast, a mechanical dog. 9 meets up with the rest of the rag dolls, the cowardly and dogmatic leader 1 (Christopher Plummer) who believes the best strategy is hiding, 5 (John C. Reilly), an inventor who avoids conflict and 8 (Fred Tatasciore), 1's large enforcer. 9 goes against 1's orders and goes to rescue 2, but ends up releasing the machine, a powerful creation that had destroyed humanity. 9 and the dolls have to discover the past to save themselves.Like every critic I am going to praise the animation: it is really detailed, dark and gloomy. The city itself looked like a bombed out European city during and after World War 2 and there is a retro feel about the film, how people in the 40s might have pictured a post-apocalyptical future. The designs of the machines are animal like, made from whatever scrap from the ruins can be found. Some of the designs did remind me of some other films, the Machine's red eye loosing like HAL from A Space Odyssey and the machines at war with the humans are look the tripods for Steven Spielberg's version of World of the Worlds. Acker also get the right mix when making humans look cartoonary, but still has plenty of detail, such as hair and skin pattern: these are not poorly animated wooden figures you see in many animated films. Acker also has a good eye for action, following characters as fight or run and works well with his set and creature designs.Some people have complained that 9 is too dark: but I love it when a film is dark, I love dyspotic and post-apocalyptical fiction. This is not a film for young children, but great viewing for 10-years-old plus, children who like action cartoons and looking for something darker. There are some interesting ideas and I like how depressing the world looked, with cloudy skies, the ruined city and ominous factory in the distance. The idea of machines vs. humans is nothing new, we have seen it in 2001: A Space Odyssey, the Terminator films and the Matrix, but there are other ideas, like the machine stealing souls, 1 looking like the Pope or the Archbishop of Canterbury and he sees science as dark, evil force that brought the world to disaster and sees it as a mystical force. 1 is a symbol of conservatism and wanting to avoid tackling a problem and hiding it away, then just face it. I also like how the machines are more animalistic, just wanting to feed and cause destruction.The voice casting was okay, but it was one of the weaker elements of the film. I quite Reilly, but I think he gave a weak, bland performance. Even more remarkable is that Reilly is a strong comedy and dramatic performer. Wood has yet to escape his performance in Lord of the Rings, be wide eyed, young and idealistic, forced into an adventure. Jennifer Connelly is good as the warrior woman of the group, strong-will and clever, but hell, I love Connelly, she could star in a positive bio-pic about Sarah Palin and I would still love her.I would to have liked to have seen more about the back story about the characters, why they turned out the way they became. They needed to be more information about the characters and show their backstory in some way. Also, despite the fact I love the serious, dark nature of 9, I would have liked a little more comedy, just to lighten things up. There is an old Hollywood saying: "make them laugh, make them cry". Even in the most serious films there are still lighter moments, just to break the tension. 9 needed a little more of that.I would not be surprised that the script was longer and that many elements were cut during editing or never even animated. It just needed to be expanded. But I am sure that Shane Acker will have a good career as a animation film maker.
Wanted is based a comic book series by Mark Millar (who has written for Spiderman, Superman, X-Men and Wolverine). Sadly this film did not encourage me to buy the series. Wanted is an perfect example of style over substance which leads to a heartless experience.Wanted focuses on Wesley Gibson (James McAvoy), a young man who hates his office job, whom girlfriend is having an affair with his best friend and suffers from 'anxity attacks'. One day when he is shopping a woman named Fox (Angelina Jolie) who tells Wesley's father had just been killed by a rogue agent called Cross (Thomas Kretschmann) and he was the best assassin in the world. Cross also targets Wesley and Fox saves his life. She takes to Welsey to the Fraternity of Assassins run by Sloan (Morgan Freeman), who tells him that people are genetically able to become assassins and bend bullets. Wesley gets the excitement he has been craving, and trains hards to use his abilities to the fullest. Wesley seeks revenge for the death of his father and does as much research as he can about Cross to ensure he kills him. Sloan tells Welsey that the Fraternity picks it targets using a loom which uses binary code, picking targets by fate. Fox tells Welsey the philosophy of the Fraternity is kill one, save a-thousand and bring balance to the world, and shows her own dark origins.The film is shallow, with un-engaging characters. You wonder why we should really care for Welsey throughout the film. The themes of fate basically feel like it added to show there is more to the film. The film is trying to be the Matrix but obviously no where need as good or deep as that film. The other major problem of the film is it's predictable. It was clear from the beginning that the Fraternity isn't as good as they made themselves out to be. The plot is very thin and clichéd.There are some positives from this film. They is a good cast, McAvoy, Jolie, Freeman and Kretschmann are all top actors. It's also good to see Marc Warren to be in a Hollywood film. Some of the action scenes were very well done, you would like it if you like high-octane action. I think Timur Bekmambetov has potential to be a good director in Hollywood, as long as he good material. His next film, 9, looks like it would be good.Wanted felt like a film made for 12-year-old boys with added sex and violence.2 out of 5.
John Carpenter is known as the king of the B-Movie in the 70s and 80s, making films like Halloween, Assault on Precinct 13 and The Thing. They Live can be considered one of his last great films and most political and thematic films."Nada" (Roddy Piper) is a homeless construction worker looking for work in Los Angeles. When he finds a job a fellow worker, Frank (the always awesome Keith David) takes Nada to a shantytown to stay where Nada notices odds things going on at the church opposite, leading him to discover a pair of sunglasses which lets him see the aliens that are really in control of the world.They Live is basically a Marxist thesis being made into turned into a film. Nada is able to see the evil network of the upper ends of Capitalism are secretly controlling the world, using mass market and hegemony to enact their plans, keep the masses down and make humans no more then unquestioning puppets. There is a criticism of mass media in the 80s at it constantly bombard the masses with adverts and poor programmes: it can be easy to make the case that it is even worst now with the rise of celebrity culture and reality TV. There are even modern parallel as well about the divide between the wealthy and the poorest in America and a little nugget where it was mentioned the government bailed out the steel industry show no gratitude and the bosses give themselves massive bonuses.The acting is mostly weak to put it nicely. Piper was a WWF wrestler so it was clear he was not a trained actor, but he does have the action chops and has charisma. Piper also has an excellent ad-lipped one liner that was fitting for Carpenter's style. David is always a welcome presence in film and he was the best actor in the film.Carpenter supplies plenty of B-Movie violence and action which will please fans. Two of the best moments are when Nada's makes his discovery he goes on a killing spree and a five minute long fight scene between two bulky men simply trying to beat the hell out of each other. It's the kind of thing you want in a film like this.They Live is a tout film, having a running time of 90 minutes. This is a film that buys into conspiracy theories that the world is secretly run by people who for the own interests, grind down any dissent and no chance of advancement. I personally do not subscript this world view but people who enjoy Carpenter's work will get pleasure from They Live.
Ghostbusters is easily on of the best films from the 80s. It is a sci-fi action comedy that can match Back to Future for popularity. It was a film that was Bill Murphy's first commercial success and it had a successful sequel and spin-off cartoon series.Peter Venkman (Bill Murray), Ray Stantz (Dan Aykroyd) and Egon Spengler (Harold Ramis) are scientists working at a New York University who study paranormal activity. They loose their position, being seen as a menace to the university who focus on popularity rubbish and not real science. The three decide to continue their research themselves, and to help fund it they form their own business, a ghost extermination services, the Ghostbusters. After they first successful capture they become instant celebrities and their business booms. One resident of New York, Dian Barrett (Sigourney Weaver), suffers a particularly bad ghost infestation, with an ancient demi-god tormenting her. She hires the Ghostbusters, who discover that all the ghostly activities were linked and including in the city.So what makes Ghostbusters work? Lots of things, a script with a good story, jokes and gags, with Ivan Reitman skill with action and special effects. The effects were spectacular for its time. It was easily Ivan Reitman's best film. What really works for this film is the cast. Bill Murray offers an excellent deadpan performance, having great timing with his jokes, showing why he is one of best comedic actor from America. Dan Aykroyd and Harold Ramis are also excellent comedic performers, having a different approach to Murphy. I enjoyed Annie Potts as the gruff, tough native New Yorker. Sigourney Weaver also rarely stars in a bad film. She beings in an originality person's perspective to the film. It would have been easy for this film to fall into slapstick territory; but luckily the writers and director avoid this trap, using more clever vebral gags and sharp wit, making the film a funny experience.This is a rare example that big budget comedy can work. It's a must see.
There has been a raise in low budget monster films and alien invasions film, Cloverfield, District 9 and Monsters being big examples. Special Effects budgets have become more manageable and cheaper for these films to be made. After the disaster that was Aliens vs. Predator: Requiem, directors/special effects wizs the Brothers Strause wanted to prove it was Fox's fault and show they are competent directors with Skyline, a sci-fi film they made with a budget estimated to be around $10 to 20 million.In Los Angeles artist Jarrod (Eric Balfour) and his pregnant girlfriend Elaine (Scottie Thompson) go to Jarrod's best friend, Terry (Donald Faison) to celebrate his birthday. After a heavy night of drinking and partying some strange blue lights fall from the sky and has a hypnotic effect on anyone who stares at it. It quickly becomes clear that Earth is being invaded by aliens and are sucking up people like hover sucks dust. The group of friends have to decide whether to stay in the apartment and wait for help or try to make a break for it.Lets start with the positives, the Brothers Strause certainly show why they are some of the best special effects people in the business, having worked on X-Men: The Last Stand, Terminator 3: Rise of the Machines, 2012 and The Curious Case of Benjamin Button. The action sequences like the aerial dog fight were very well done and there are plenty of special effect sequences that could have easily have fitted in a film with 10 times it budget. It was better then say The Last Airbender which had a $150 million budget. And well, it's short. I also actually liked seeing the action and events from a distance.Now for the bad and trust me there is a lot of bad. Lets start with the acting; it was wooden throughout and often most of the characters are just typical clichéd horror characters. Even Faison, an actor I like, does not come off with much glory. It is easy to predict who is going to get killed next. The general scenario plays very much like zombie/horror film siege and there are much better films that handle that subject; The Night of the Living Dead, both versions of Dawn of the Dead and The Mist are a few films on the top of my head. The whole point of those films is not just threat outside but also within and there was not really any of that. Another cliché examined is one character is infected and he tries to hide what happened to him. Added to that is a old chestnut of a pregnant girlfriend and she obviously wants to protect her unborn baby. Skyline is shot within the apartment complex and has a small cast, which was obviously the limitations of the low budget and it was just so forced because the audience are not idiots. It is very stupid why aliens want humans (SPOILER ALERT): they rid out their brains and people them in aliens, adding to the idea its like a zombie film (and reminded me of a line in Heroes). It was poorly executed and I even laughed when it was first revealed. It certainly did not help when they included a red shirt character just so he can die. The design of the alien tentacles and the way the aliens rounded people reminded me a lot of Steven Spielberg's War of the Worlds, a much better film.Some people have criticised Skyline because it only looks at people who can not do anything to stop the invasion. I personally do not have a problem of looking how ordinary people would react to a extraordinary event. But it has done better in films like Cloverfield and War of the Worlds.Skyline also tries to stretch its material, it felt like it only had about 45 minutes of material and wanted to double its running time. It was almost like a filler episode of a television series looking away from the main story for a week. It was predictable and filmmakers were looking for new ways to keep the cast in the building and not go anywhere else in the city. The Brother Strause also attempt some stylist tricks that do not work for them, the biggest example being trying to show the passage of time with an panning shot with everything at a fast rate, just trying to stretch the film by about 20 seconds and a simple cut would have done.It also does not help that the film has a number of action clichés we have all seen before, the noble sacifre, a person willing to kill themselves to take down an enemy or someone coming from behind to save another person. It is all very predictable.Overall just watch Cloverfield, Dawn of the Dead (both versions) or War of the Worlds, there are better films.
One on the most famous cinematic movement to come out of Britain is Kitchen Sink Realism. These are films that focus on hard-hitting issues, normally focus on working-class communities and do not whole back on anything. This is a movement has been around since the 1960s, and many British directors have used this approach, such as Ken Loach, Mike Leigh and Shane Meadows. A new director is now joining their ranks: Andrea Arnold.Jackie (Kate Dickie) is a CCTV security operator in Glasgow; her job is simple, look and report any incidents. She is able to watch some familiar people like a man with his old bulldog, and a cleaner who dances to her MP3 whilst working. But Jackie is a lonely woman, her husband has died and she has pushed a lot of people away from her. One night when monitoring the Red Road Estate, one of the most deprived areas of Britain, Jackie sees someone who she never thought she would see again: Clyde Henderson (Tony Curran), the man who killed on husband. Jackie quickly becomes obsessed, following Clyde everywhere he goes with CCTV, calls his employer and even sees him going to a school and gives a schoolgirl money and make-up. Jackie even misses another schoolgirl getting stabbed. Jackie decides she needs to investigate further, goes to the Red Road Estate and starts spying on Clyde. She befriends Clyde's friends and attempts to get close to the man, plotting her revenge.Red Road is Arnold's first feature film, and she shows a lot of promise. She tells a slow burning story, letting it unfold gradually. She focuses on the characters, letting all of them develop naturally, showing that these are complex people with complex lives. She does not want to make a straight forward film and there is a complex morality throughout. This adds to the traditional of a more thoughtful type of independent film-making. Arnold keeps a realistic feel throughout, filming it like a document, using simple hand held cameras and obviously CCTV video tape. She shows the grim, tough area of Glasgow and how people's environment does affect them. She does not hold back on some of the more unpleasant subject matter and this film did deserve an 18 rating. Despite her skills as a director, Arnold's ability were not so good at this point. She has a very good premise for a thriller and she shows her passion to show this area of the world. But there are some plot holes that holds the film back from having a higher rating, like why don't people ask more about why Jackie is doing what she is doing, why she missed the stabbing and that should have been a warning to her. Wouldn't the police have asked questions and look into people's backgrounds? Arnold is obviously a talented woman and she just needed to tighten up her script to make her film better.Of course the acting is strong, the performance are more understated and realistic. The actors aim to be believable and complex, add to the character develop. Along with Arnold the performances are subtle; both vocally and physically.This is a worthy film for fans of independent cinema and kitchen sink realism. Arnold is a director to watch out for in the future.
After 15 years in Hollywood and making only on decent film (Face/Off) John Woo returns to his Asian roots. Here he get the creative independence he deserves and creates the most successful (and most expensive) ever Chinese films.The year was 208AD, the Prime Minister Cao Cao (Fengyi Zhang) has taken control of Northern China and made the Emperor a puppet ruler. But the south is defiance. Lord Liu Bei (Yong You) tries to fight and has excellent general, but is hopelessly outnumbered by Cao Cao forces. He sets out to make an alliance with two other Southern Lords, the young Sun Quan (Chen Chang) and military expert Zhou Yu (Tony Leung). Liu Bei uses his chief adviser Kongming (Takeshi Kaneshiro) to negotiate with Lords. Even with this new alliance, Cao Cao still outnumbers the 3 Kingdoms with a force of 800,000 troops. Zhou Yu and Kongming sets out the win the coming battle with strategy, expert military tactics, trickery, the weather and spies. Here the two forces set out for the coming battle.John Woo is an action director and the martial arts and the battles are well handle, if OTT (but that's what John Woo does). He has flair and the fights are bloody. He has fun with the CGI, from the battles to following arrows and doves when they are in flight. He gets to combine both Asian and Hollywood style of film-making. The music as well combine both Asian and Western styles. The film itself feels like the Chinese Lord of the Rings.Tony Leung is the strongest link in the film, he is an expert martial artist and a good actor, being in House of Flying Daggers, the Infernal Affiars Trilogy and Lust Caution just to name a few. He offers another good performances. Other actors also offer good performances and they was no one who dragged the film down.In China and Hong Kong Red Cliff was split into two films and already out on DVD in Hong Kong. The Western version combines the films, and its also the dumbed down version. The English was just weird in context with the rest of film. The film also does change in tone from it beginning. Lets hope that the DVD release in the West will be of both films or an extended edition.
The Magdalene Asylums and the treatment an estimated 30,000 'fallen' women is one of the great shames on the Irish nation and the Catholic Church, which the Irish government only apologised for in 2013. The British-Irish co-production of The Magdalene Sisters set out to tell the true story of a group of young women who suffered at the hands of the Church and their families.Starting in 1964, The Magdalene Sisters focuses on three women, Margaret (Anne-Marie Duff) who is raped by her cousin during a wedding, Rose (Dorothy Duffy) who had a child out of wedlock and was forced to give him up for adoption and Bernadette (Nora Jane No one), a teenage orphan who has the audacity to flirt with boys and is sent to the asylum, even though she is a virgin. At the asylum, each the woman all have to atone for their 'sins', through hard labour in the laundries, participating in prayer and can only be freed on the grace of the Mother Superior Sister Bridget (Geraldine McEwan).The Magdalene Sisters has a rape scene within the first five minutes sets the tone that this is going to be a bleak, hard-hitting drama about a truly appalling institution. Writer-director Peter Mullan felt this was a story that he needed to tell. Mullan does showcase the physical and mental abuse that these women went through, who were humiliated, dehumanised and used as slave labour. The nuns of this institution are made out to be sadists who use Catholic beliefs as a justification and a method of control on the women, while Mullan shows the hypocrisy of the church in its various forms.The Magdalene Sisters is mostly set in a small, claustrophobic environment and Mullan uses this microcosm to explore some wider psychological and sociological. The character of Katy (Britta Smith), a woman who had been in the asylum for 40 years, is so institutionalised, that she acts as an extra enforcer for the nuns, under the hope she can complete a pendant. All of the other women are completely rejected by their families and have to join the order because they have nowhere else to turn.When Mullan does take us outside of the asylum he portrays the conservative nature of Irish society at the time. The public look down the women when they are allowed out, seen as the lowest of the low, the state offering some complicity, as police occasionally help the nuns. On the other side of the coin, young men see the women of the asylum as easy because of their reputation for being 'whores' and 'sluts'.Each of the actors give their all for the film and they had given the heavy material. The film is blessed with a talented cast and for many of the actresses, The Magdalene Sisters is their biggest credit. The tragedy is played to the fullest, as these women suffer inside and outside the asylum, yet Rose and Margaret keep their kind aspects of their characters and Bernadette reminds a fiery woman who does not crack to the punishment she has received. In comparison the naive and kind-hearted Crispina (Eileen Walsh), a young woman with properly learning disabilities, who is abused in various forms and is the character who suffers the most.Mullan made an incredibly important film, looking at tragic historic story where many women suffered. This is a film that is furious towards the Catholic Church and Mullan does portray many hard scenes in physical and emotional abuse, filled with violence and nudity. It is a tough yet rewarding watch. But if you think the treatment the women suffered in this dreadful Mary-Jo McDonagh, a former Magdalene inmate said that the reality was even worst.Please visit www.entertainmentfuse.com
Tony Jaa is properly the best material artist around at the moment and he is gaining cult following, especially with fans of material arts films. Jaa first came to the world's attention after the excellent Ong-Bak which was an action film with no special effects.Warrior King is the follow up to Ong-Bak, seeing Tony Jaa and director Prachya Pinkaew reunite. The plot of the film is Kham (Tony Jaa) and his father (Sotorn Rungruaeng) rise Indian elephants and Kham's father hopes his elephant Por Yai would be presented to the King of Thailand for ceremonial reasons. Por Yai had a calf, Kohrn, and Kham as a teenager develop a close bond to Kohrn. Thai gangsters steal the elephants during the inspection of Por Yai and Kham's father is shot and wounded. Kham finds out that the elephants were taken to Sydney and he goes to try and find them. Whilst in the city he has to take on a underworld of Asian gangsterism in Sydney. In Australia Kham ends up befriending and working with Sergeant Mark (Petchtai Wongkamlao), a Sydney police-officer from Thailand and Pla (Bongkoj Khongmalai) a Thai woman forced to be a call-girl.The plot is similar to Ong-Bak, and is very thin. But that's what most material-art films are like, and I don't care. The main thing you are concerned are the action scenes, and they are top-notch. Tony Jaa beats up a lot of people in this film. Bongkoj Khongmalai does the action with relish and unlike films like the Bourne Films which use shaky cam and quick editing, Khongmalai uses steady cam and no-editing, especially a scene where Kham has to fight his way up four floors in a building. Some of the acting is a little ropey, but as I said it's the action that manners. Warrior King is a mighty entertaining film.
Atonement, Universal Studios and Working Title Film's prestige picture of 2007, with it's sights on the award season. It was the second film of an up-and-coming director, Joe Wright, showing that Keira Knightley is more then a blockbuster star, and showing it's a good example of British filmmaker.In 1935 in the country estate of a upper-class British family, Cecilia Tallis (Keira Knightley) starts to succumb to feelings for Robbie Turner (James McAvoy), a family friend, whom parents helped through school and university, but from a lower class. In the space of one day they finally give in, but their time is short. Cecilia's younger sister Briony (Saoirse Ronan), sees the events of Cecilia and Robbie, but misunderstands what happens. Because of the events of her imagination and misunderstanding she ends up accusing Robbie of a horrid crime. After five years Robbie is serving in the army in Northern France. He had finally rekindled his relationship with Cecilia, who became a nurse and exiled from her family. They are separate when he ends has to serve in evacuation of Dunkirk. Briony (Romola Garai), now 18, gives up the chance to go to Cambridge, and trains to be a nurse. She tries to fool herself about what she saw but suffers guilt and wants to be amends for her actions.This is a well structured, directed and acted film. It tells a compelling story about how a misunderstanding can alter the course of some people's lives. It also acts a commentary about class relations, with upper classes looking down on others, no matter how educated a lower class person may be. They is the ideas between truth and imagination, which could alter reality. It also offers a look on the British Army in Dunkirk, and war-time London.Christopher Hampton writes a well structured screenplay, showing the different elements of the story, and with Joe Wright's direction makes it a well-crafted and does not tell it in a linear style. Wright shows his skill as a director with excellent editing, an effective tone and some brilliant shots. One true moment of genius is showing the British army on the beaches of Dunkirk. Wright would have been worthy of an Oscar nod.There is a good cast for this film. Saoirse Ronan was nominated for Best Supporting Actress, and she is clearly an actress to watch out for. Keira Knightley shows that she is more then Elizabeth Swann from the Pirates film or Domino Harvey in the awful Domino, she is trying to prove herself as a proper actress. She does a decent job here. But for me, the main star was James McAvoy in the strongest performance I have seen him in. He was one Oscar worthy film and should have been nominated.There are some moments that don't work. Examples are some characters do acts a little too dumb, and a surreal sequences in the middle of the film did not seem to fit with the rest of.However, a worthy film for film fans.
The Bourne Supremacy carries on where the brilliant Bourne Identity left off. This film series shows that realistic and intelligence action films can work. The first two Bourne films led to the re-boot of James Bond which I am thankful for.It had been 2 years since Jason Bourne (Matt Damon) had lost his memory and left the Black Ops division of the CIA, Trendstone. He was living with his girlfriend Marie (Franka Potente) in Goa, India. However, Bourne was suffering from flashbacks of assassination he did. In Berlin, Deputy Director Pamela Landy (Joan Allen) was running an operation to meet a Russian mole who had information about money stolen from the CIA. But this mole was assassinated and Russian agents set out to frame Jason Bourne. At the same time a Russian sniper attempts to assassinate Bourne, but misses and kill Marie. As you imagine Bourne was a little annoyed, but believe it was the CIA who attempted to kill him. At the CIA Landy wants to find Bourne and know why he 'killed' the mole, thinking that it was a conscripacy between Conklin (Chris Cooper) (who died in the last movie) and Bourne. She is forced to work with Ward Abbott (Brain Cox) who was in charge of Trendstone. Landy just wants to question Bourne, Abbott just wants to kill him.This is a confusing film at times, and needs multiple viewings, but that is a good thing because it makes you think. It has an intelligence plot and shows the willing of some people to use CIA resources for their own personal gain. There are multiple factions, Bourne himself looking for revenge and closure, Landy who was being used, Conklin, one of the main bad guys and the Russians. This film has a strong script. Like the other Bourne films, it shows that he is a top agent, also thinking ahead of time, and how resource he is. It also shows he amazing fighting abilities. That is always fun to see. Unforuanately, the directional duties went from Doug Liman to Paul Greengrass. Greengrass was a successful director on British television and for the most part does a good job with the Bourne Series; but can't handle an action scene because to the quick editing and the shaky-cam which makes you lost in the action. Why can't an fight scene be filmed like a 70s martial arts film where you see all the action? But there is an amazing car chase seen.There is a top cast. Matt Damon makes Bourne his own and shows the emotional difficulties he has to go through. Brain Cox makes an excellent villain as he always do. Julia Stiles retrives her role as Nicky Parsons and shows she is an actress to watch and Joan Allen a fine addiction to the cast. Other big name and especially actors have small roles in the film, such as Karl Urban, Michelle Monaghan and Tomas Arana.The Bourne Supremacy is the weakness of the trilogy but still an excellent film. The Bourne Series shows how a trilogy should be made compared to other series like X-Men and Blade.
Jacques Mesrine was France's most notorious gangster, and like many gangsters he has earned himself a bio-pic: or in this case two bio-pics. Director Jean-François Richet co-wrote and directed an ambitious project showing both the rise and fall of Mesrine. The first film was an excellent gangster flick.After the brutal Algerian War for Independence, Jacques Mesrine (Vincent Cassel) is at a lost with what to do as a career. His friend Paul (Gilles Lellouche) encourages the man into SAO, a crime organisation, who partake in robbery. With him gaining money and living by his own interpretation of loyalty and respect. Mesrine: Killer Instinct document's Mesrine's marriage with Spanish woman Sofia (Elena Anaya) who bore him three children and his romance with Jeanne Schneider (Cécile De France). After becoming notorious in France Mesrine and Jeanne fled to Montreal which saw their criminal activities continue and he becomes a focus for the media.Mesrine: Killer Instinct has a lot going for it, with a good script, a great visual style and excellent acting. Cassel was brilliantly cast as a violence gangster with a role that allows him to stretch himself as an actor, from being a lover, a fighter to a real scum bag to a man who suffers the horrors of solitary confinement. It was a great performance, making the character believable who does has a scene of loyalty, like beating two blokes up at a bar who insults the barmaid. Cassel was ability supported throughout, but to me Anaya was particularly excellent as Mesrine's Spanish wife. But seeing I can not pick out an actor for being good or bad shows a uniform strength of the film.Richet shows terrific skill as a director. Visually Mesrine: Killer Instinct was great to look at. Scenes like when Mesrine was in Algeria and the robbery of the casino were done with great style, with both scenes being intense. The Algeria scene using a lot of quick cuts and using a sandy filter and the casino robbery was done using hand-held cameras. The violence was realistic, with some decent gangster action scenes, whilst the raid on the prison felt a bit like Grand Theft Auto IV. Richet also effectively uses 24 style split screen to show events that are happening at the same time. Richet pacing was quick and the tone was serious: fans of gangster films will enjoy this film.Richet and Abdel Raouf Dafri (who also wrote A Prophet) writes a very good script with a lot events and subjects being examined. We get to see the operations of a gangster at the ground level and show that they function in small groups and despite the media perception they is no glamour in gangsterism. There is character development and a strong narrative involving Mesrine. The film's running time is a tout 1 hour 45 minutes (excluding the credits), which is excellent for a film it's many events. But I believe that film does skip over Mesrine and Jeanne's early relationship where they meet at a bar and the next scene the two are robbing a casino. Despite it being an unorthodox romance I can't picture Mesrine saying to Jeanne 'I know a great casino to rob' straight away. But that's a minor concern.An excellent film and one of the best gangster films of 2009.
50/50 was considered one of the best films of 2012, a comedy-drama tackling the serious subject of cancer. It would have easy for the film to fall into melodrama, sentimentality and being very much like a TV movie, but 50/50 was blessed with an excellent screenplay and a top cast.Adam Lerner (Joseph Gordon-Levitt) is a 27-year-old radio journalist for Seattle Public Radio and man who is have problems with his girlfriend, Rachael (Bryce Dallas Howard). When he experiences back problem Adam goes to the doctors and it turns out he has schwannoma neurofibrosarcoma, a rare type of spiral cancer. It turns out he has a 50% chance of surviving. As Adam undergoes chemotherapy it effects relationship with his guilt ridden girlfriend, his best friend Kyle (Seth Rogen) who sees the cancer as a great way to get with girls, his therapist, Katherine (Anna Kendrick), his friendships with two other cancer patients and overbearing mother (Anjelica Huston).Will Reiser provided an excellent screenplay, a character driven story that is both dramatic and when it comic, genuinely very funny. There is funny dialogue and interactions between the characters and most of the cast has a moment to shine. But the comedy never distract from the drama and the characters. The characters were well written and reacted and acted believably, from characters using any old wives tale they believe to help Adam, people being sympathetic but unsure how to react when they hear the news, to Kendrick's character keeping referring to her university instead of her knowledge and experience.There is a great cast in 50/50 and there all play well defied characters. Gordon-Levitt has emerged as a great talent and shows his range with 50/50: Adam starts of as a mild manner, rather meek person who becomes more daring, outgoing and confidence after his diagnosis. Katherine's character serves as a way to deconstruct the psychological symptoms he is suffering and because of her recent studies sounds a bit more natural for her to speak like that a seasoned veteran.Whilst the main narrative is about Adam's cancer and the way it affects him and those close to him, but there are other parts of the story that should draw people in. There is the relationship between Adam and Rachael as Rachael feels compelled to be with Adam and his realisation that she is bad for him, the friendship Adam and Kyle, Adam's relationship with his mother in the third act and his blurring friendship with Katherine.Director Jonathan Levine does inject an indie-film vide to the 50/50, using indie music and musical montages, some visual tricks, for example after Adam gets high and when Adam and Kyle destroy a painting. Levine kept a very fast pace throughout and whilst the film does lean towards the drama, 50/50 is not hammed fisted and the comedy elements worked nicely. With the musical cues 50/50 has a slightly similar feel to 500 Days of Summer and continuing both films have a theme of women who are bad for their partners they work well together as companions pieces to each other.Considering the subject matter, 50/50 is an entertaining film and I can picture myself watching it again.
Neill Blomkamp made a massive impression with his $30 Million debut District 9, a smartly written sci-fi film with great special effects that supplied both blockbuster thrills and social commentary. His follow-up film was also going to be a highly anticipated film, but also runs the risk of suffering second album syndrome.By the end of the 21st Century Earth is overpopulated and polluted. The rich and the elite leave Earth to live on Elysium, a huge space station that could be seen from Earth. By 2154 Earth is a poverty stricken, diseased world that has suffers from crime and health problems and an oppressive robotic police force whilst Elysium is a calm paradise where they have healing pods that can cure anything from broken bones to cancer. Many people on Earth try to break into Elysium despite it being pretty much a suicide mission.On Earth is Max De Costa (Matt Damon), a convicted criminal who tries to live a clean life and works as a factory worker, despite being targeted by the police. But after a work accident he gets a lethal dose of radiation and only has five days to live. Max's only hope is going to Elysium, but to do that he needs to steal the thoughts of a billionaire (William Fincher). What Max ends up with something that could change the world and makes him a target for Elysium's Defence Secretary, Delacourt (Jodie Foster) and her personal covert agent, Kruger (Sharlto Copley).Some of the critical and audience reaction to Elysium has been mixed and lukewarm with people disappointed with Blomkamp's work. But Elysium is still an entertaining sci-fi film with substance. Blomkamp uses some simple story ideas, such as Max only having a few days to live, so has to go on one last mission and Max having a McGuffin that everyone wants. Blomkamp does this so he can fresh out his world and themes. Earth does look like a hole of despair of urban decay and crime and the planet does seem to not have advance very much.Elysium is very clear and open about its themes and ideas; this is a film that very critical of access to healthcare in America, particularly how the poor had inadequate healthcare compared to the rich and elite who can have anything they want. There are rampant poverty which the elite ignores, looks at gated communities, immigration, particularly of Latin Americans going to the United States and xenophobia of the elite and classism. Elysium's wears its leftist politics on the sleeve as we see the world split into the bourgeoisie and the proletariat as companies aim to maximum their profits regardless of the workers. There are also smaller themes but no less important like the how workers, particularly immigrant workers are expendable. The film is at its most subtle when robots are in bureaucratic positions like Max's speaking to his parole officer, complimented with Damon's sarcastic interaction. Elysium is very much a film about the lower classes taking back what is theirs which should appeal to revolutionary Marxists.Blomkamp is known for coming from a special effects background and like District 9 the CGI and models were excellent. Blomkamp is able to supply action and spectacle with his world building. Blomkamp does go for a little too much shaky-cam at times, yet the hand-held camera work did give Elysium a pseudo-documentary feel and adds a scene of authenticity to the film, making it look more real and add to Blomkamp's photo- realistic style.Like District 9 the action is strong and very well directed. Whilst shaky-cam is used Blomkamp also uses a lot of slow-mo to great effect. We get gun battles, fist and knife fights with men in exo-skeletons and District 9 style weapons leading to exploding bodies. Elysium is how I like my R-rated sci-fi action, very bloody and violence: we even get a man getting a grenade to the face.Some of the art direction was very similar to Looper, with old cars and guns being modified and people on Earth having to do in a rag tag world. There are also some elements of Total Recall, In Time and Escape from New York.Copley was fantastic as Kruger, a raging psychopath with menace and dark humour to his role. It was a shame that he wasn't the main villain as he injected energy into his role. He should be considered to play the next Bond villain. It is a shame that Foster as the main villain was lacklustre, being a politician with xenophobic views who had a cold persona and a strange accent. She should have been written out and Kruger been made as the main villain.Elysium does use a similar storyline and plot points to District 9, both the main characters end up being inflected with something that will kill or change them and both character end up having something that an organisation really want. As mention is very heavy handed with its political commentary and one be that was so transparent was Fincher's character, a billionaire tycoon who puts his workers to the limited and does not care what happens to them. It could have been handled better such as the billionaire trying to squeeze out very bit of profit they can and do things like ignoring safety regulations or concerns.On a final note composer Ryan Amon was clearly influenced by Hans Zimmer as his used a lot of horns, strings and choir music used during the film.Elysium is not as strong as District 9 but it is still a very worthy film that is entertaining and thematic. Even if you do not agree with the politics of Elysium it holds up as an R-rated sci-fi and more should be made.
The ever political and sometimes controversial Paul Greengrass directed Captain Phillips after making his disappointing rant of film Green Zone. Teaming up with Tom Hanks and writer Billy Ray Captain Phillips tells the true story of the hijacking of the Maersk Alabama and the ransoming of Richard Phillips, a merchant sailor by Somali pirates.Captain Phillips is one of Greengrass' more balanced films showing regular people playing a small part in international system. The American navy is treated respectfully, doing their job when trying to save one of their citizens and the pirates themselves are painted in more shades of grey, making them more human. Greengrass is strong with true life stories and Captain Phillips plays to his strengths, realism and looking at wider operations. Captain Phillips is a very well acted film and Greengrass' shaky cam is toned down, making the cinematography much more effective.Greengrass keeps a fast pace going throughout the film, with the best part being the pirates attacking the ship and the crew having to outwit the heavily armed men. There is a slight dip when the action moves to a lifeboat, but picks up again when the Navy gets involved.Captain Phillips is a big improvement to Green Zone and stands along side with United 93 as Greengrass tells the story of a real life event.
Need for Speed is a great movie with a very enjoyable storyline and a very talented cast.The story is certainly nothing new or original,and the trailers don't make it seem like its going to be any different to the Fast and Furious movies but it is very enjoyable and dosen't feel like a carbon copy of previous car related films.What made this movie for me was its extremely confident cast,I am a huge fan of Aaron Paul,because of Breaking Bad of course,and I didn't think he would be able to deliver the same level of great acting as he does in Breaking Bad,but,while Tobey Marshall is certainly not Jesse Pinkman,he still delivers an outstanding performance,he clearly has a great movie career ahead of him and this is his first film since Breaking Bad finished,and there's no doubt he has more great performances ahead of him.I also really enjoyed Imogen Potts and Dominic Copper's performance,these are two actors I've heard of,but haven't seen in anything previously,but after seeing them in this I look forward to seeing them in more films.After he is let out of prison,Tobey Marshall sets out to seek revenge against the man who framed him for the death of his friend.
Goldfinger is the gold standard of Bond films, one of the best ever made. Here it has the right mix of everything with the Bond series, serious and humour, realism and fantasy, great villains, action and women.After a successful mission in Central America, James Bond (Sean Connery) is having a break in Miami Beach. M sends the CIA's Felix Leiter (Cec Linder) to ask him to look at Auric Goldfinger (Gert Fröbe), a wealth man and gold smuggler. In Miami Bond humiliates Goldfinger and ends up sleeping with his girlfriend, the beautiful Jill Masterson (Shirley Eaton). Goldfinger shows his brutal side by murdering Jill, as a message to Bond. Bond convinces M that he can carry on for the mission and follows Goldfinger to Switzerland. He ends up getting captured by Goldfinger's forces and sent to America with Pussy Galore (Honor Blackman). Whilst in the States Bond gets to know what Goldfinger's plan, Operation Grandslam and had to stop him from completing them.Sean Connery as Bond is possibly the most famous and the best (though Daniel Craig is catching up to him). Here Goldfinger is the model Bond film with some of the best action scenes, humour, the best Bond girls and a decent plot with is both far-fetch and serious at the same time. Goldfinger has some of the most famous scenes in Bond's history, such as Shirley Eaton painted gold and Bond nearly getting cut in half by a laser. Goldfinger himself is a great villain and wonderfully played by Gert Fröbe. Pussy Galore is great at lighten up the mood of film. Oddjob is also a fantastic hench-man and someone you wouldn't want to mess with. It combines elements of evil schemes, crime and geo-politics. Guy Hamilton himself is a fine director, also making Live and Let Die and the Battle of Britain. Goldfinger also has one of the most famous songs for a Bond film, a big power ballet by Shirley Bassey which even gets parodied in the excellent Simpsons episode, You Only Move Twice.This is a must see for all Bond fans and Sean Connery fans. A classic action film from the 60s.
When a film is called Lesbian Vampire Killers you are hardly expecting high quality art. But you do hope for a decent comedy, and with the stars of Gavin and Stacey you would hope for some quality.The village of Cragwich in Norfolk is cursed after the death of the Carmilla the Vampire Queen (Silvia Colloca). She cursed that every woman from the village will turn into a lesbian village on their eighteenth birthday. The only hope is for the decedent of a knight who killed Carmilla who can lift the curse. In the modern day Jimmy (Mathew Horne) is dumped by his girlfriend Judy (Lucy Gaskell), and his best friend Fletch (James Corden) is sacked as a clown. Fletch wants Jimmy to go on holiday and have a lot of sexual encounters, but all they can afford is to go hiking and decide to go Cragwich. When in Cragwich they meet a group of girls and end up sharing a cottage at the edge of the village. Unknowingly they were meant to be a sacrifice to the lesbian vampires, and the group have to fight for survival. There only hope is the local vicar (Paul McGann), who wants to destroy the vampires before his daughter Rebecca (Emer Kenny) is turned into one.I sure what the filmmakers were trying to do was copy the success of Shaun of the Dead. They wanted to make a horror parody with two successful stars from television. But there are big differences. Firstly Simon Pegg and Edgar Wright were very involved with the film-making process, writing, directing and staring in that film. They were also playing homage and treating George A. Romaro's great zombie films. The characters are much more grounded in Shaun of the Dead then there were Lesbian Vampire Killers, making you care about what happens. James Corden and Mathew Horne tried their best but they had no hand in the writing process and they were hampered by a weak script. They had a some decent lines when they argued, but it wasn't enough to satisfy. Also James Corden was trying to be like Nick Frost, but his character suffering because he needlessly swore all the time. What makes Gavin and Stacey such a popular programme because the characters, the setting and the humour is so grounded to reality. It's a gentle comedy that fitted it settings. The other actors in the film don't fair any better. Paul McGann is deliberately over the top, but he is a much better actor then this. If you want to see him at his comedic best watch Withnail and I. Those he does have one very good joke. The actresses playing the women and the vampires weren't any better. At least Vera Filatova had gone on to do Peep Show and Emer Kenny is in Eastenders.The direction by Phil Claydon was nothing special. The opening is pretty much done in a 300 style and he tries to bring in a comic book style, but he lacks focus and it felt like a director from Hollyoaks got a chance to do a feature film. He needs more practice.Finally, for a comedy the film lacked jokes, and it relied on some physical humour and lesbian stereotypes. It should have been a lot more funnier.
Socially conscious films are nothing new and there are present in all genres. Jason Statham's latest effect is a movie that wears its themes and political issues very much on its sleeve and marks a very different turn for The Stath.Thousands of people are homeless on the streets of London, two of them are Northern girl Isabel (Victoria Bewick) and Joseph 'Joey' Smith (Statham), an ex-special forces soldier who has gone A.W.O.L. from the army and suffers from post-traumatic stress disorder. Affected by drugs and alcohol, Joey is separated from Isabel, when they're attacked by thugs. Eventually, Joey ends up in a luxury apartment, where the owner happens to be away in New York for a year. With his new found safety net, Joey sets out to rebuild his life and try to find Isabel with the help of a Polish nun, Cristina (Agata Buzek). Shortly, Joey finds out that Isabel has entered into the world of prostitution.Over the course of a year Joey ends up becoming an enforcer for Chinese gangsters, finds out that Isabel was murder by a client, forcing him to go on a mission of vengeance and he becomes closer to Cristina, a woman who has her own personal demons.For those who are expecting a Statham action fest you will be very disappointed. Redemption is a crime drama, not an action thriller. There are only three fight scenes in the movie. They are very well shot, choreographed sequences with a brutal violence (a man even has his arm broken): but these sequences are very infrequent. French audiences will be particularly disappointed considering the movie is called Crazy Joe in their nation.Redemption is Steven Knight's first movie as a director and he shows confidence behind the camera. As already stated he can handle fight sequences effectively. He's also very effective when showcasing a bleak world of violence and sex. Knight was expertly able to juxtapose the affluences of the Convent Garden area (home of the Royal Opera House) to the back alleys of the same area where homeless are out of sight and out of mind. Knight also shows us how people can disappear or be forgotten within a metropolis and how some people are able to reinvent themselves, due to the anonymity that a major city can offer.The grim and gritty setting and the use of the sex trade/human trafficking shows how Redemption shares some similarities to Knight's previous movie as a writer, Eastern Promises. Even the basic set up of finding out what happened to someone who ended up being a sex worker is similar. Adding to that theme the three major female characters all have a tragic story of sexual abuse of some form, keeping it ever present with the social realistic tone of the movie.While Knight's direction was excellent at setting up the divide in wealth and poverty, his writing and dialogue was very hard hitting and unsubtle. This was particularly the cast of Cristina because of conflicts of faith and Christian duties while still accepting money and aid from a man who earns it from dubious means. Even the themes of guilt and redemption are thrown into your face with the title: the British title (Hummingbird) is more subtle.Another issue involving the screenplay is due the movie taking place during a whole year end up juggling three different plots at same which occasionally overlapped. It was tough to balancing act and at times the pieces did not fully fit together.Knight also has some unsubtle digs against the current state of the British economy, having jabs against the cuts as well against banker's bonuses (though people on the Right in the UK hates bankers).We all know Statham as a major action star and he rarely ventures outsides that genre. Redemption sees The Stath attempt a more serious, darker role and he cannot let the fists do the talking. It is most likely he was cast to ensure the movie got funding, yet Statham does deliver a solid performance, being silent and stoic, being able to offer some of his sardonic wit when needed.Redemption is a bleak movie with very occasional moments of wit and action. It is a solid effort from Knight who shows confidence behind the camera. It is a refreshing change from Statham and this movie that shows even The Stath can cry.Please visit www.entertainmentfuse.com
Back in 2010, fans of action cinema were salivating over the prospect of some of the greatest action heroes of '80s and '90s coming together for the first time in The Expendables, but it took itself too seriously to win approval from the vast majority. The filmmakers listened to this criticism in putting together The Expendables 2 and director Simon West injects a big dose of self-aware humour that the series needed.After a successful mission Nepal to rescue a Chinese billionaire, the mysterious spy Church (Bruce Willis), demands Barney Ross (Sylvester Stallone) and The Expendables pay him back for their shenanigans in the first film and get a case from a clashed plane in Albania. However, a ruthless mercenary and criminal, Jean Villain (Jean-Claude Van Damme) awaits them. He plans to sell several tons of former Soviet plutonium and enslaves a population of local men to mine it.The winning feature of this sequel is the action sequences, which is the source of the film's new-look sense of humour. It starts with the pre-title card sequence and includes written gags on their vehicle (with an acknowledgement of some of the actors' real-life right-wing views) to the fun of Jet Li fighting with a frying pan. The action is delightfully violent with plenty of head explosions and blood packs. These fun and well-edited set pieces offer plenty of variety. There are shoot-outs, martial arts combat scenes, and feats of pure physical strength.The Expendables 2 has sealed West's return as an action director. Sadly, some of the actors do not get a chance to shine in the physical front; some of the roles were really just cameos. The CGI was sadly weak, and there is a little too much self-referencing near the end, but it's mainly in an old-fashioned and fun action movie type of way. At times, The Expendables 2 is weirdly meta, acknowledging Dolph Lundgren's real life education and pre-acting career and playing off the rivalry between Stallone and Arnold Schwarzenegger. Even Brian Tyler's score plays homage to some of the film's stars.The heart of the movie is still the relationship between Stallone and Statham, which is full of banter, wit and overall great chemistry  it feels as if they have been working together for years. They have their moments to shine as individuals as well as a pair and even Statham has his own rival to go with the Stallone one in the JCVD rivalry. Despite being one of the most recent action stars of the bunch, The Stath is one of the best characters as he's fun and gets a chance to show off his fighting skills.There are plenty of clichés in the sequel, including foreshadowing of the death certain characters and the villains are evil for the sake of being evil. JCVD and his crew and needlessly ruthless and there are a elements similar to first movie with an outside force taking control of a region. But the advantage of JCVD as a villain is he is a real, imposing threat to the Expendables.While there is a more tongue-in-cheek tone, West still keeps a gritty look and the cinematography uses deliberately dull colours in order to do so. Early in the second act the movie drags a little and is slightly aimless, but once the action picks up it is easily forgiven. West's direction is a little workman like, but this was the approach this series needs: the audience just wants good scenes and that nostalgic feeling from the glory days of action films.There is a macho culture of friendship within this movie as it centres on comrades who had been fighting together for years, but Yu Nan, playing Maggie, mixes things up as a tough woman who can handle herself as the brains of the outfit. It is refreshing to see a woman in this type of film not being a damsel in distress, but the weird faux-romance female characters have with Stallone continues in this movie, though luckily we do not see the 66-year-old bump uglies with a woman half his age.Earlier this year, Chuck Norris announced that The Expendables 2 was going to be PG-13, but because of the beautifully gory violence an R-rating was ensured. Still, there was one weird aspect to the film: no swearing.The Expendables 2 will supply fun action sequences, some cheesy jokes and has the sense of humour and self-awareness the first movie needed. Fans of the stars and classic '80s-style action cinema with get their money's worth.Please visit www.playeraffinity.com
American Gangster is a very good, enjoyable film, a great addition to the gangster movie genre. The film starts as Frank Lucas (Denzel Washington), a major gangster in New York in the 1970s, and Richie Roberts (Russell Crowe), as the police detective who investigates Lucas' Empire. The film shows how Lucas rise to power, importing heroin from Thailand, using the coffins of soldiers who died in Vietnam. He is shown to have a decent life, respected in his community, rich and occasionally has to commit acts of violence. He is smart, well-read, a good businessman and loyal to his family. His brothers became his lieutenants, he loved his mum. He befriends celebrities but he is not flash does not draw attention to himself. Roberts on the other hands is an honest cop, working in New Jersey and struggling in his life. He is given the opportunity to head a special unit to invest drugs in New York. He is the opposite to Lucas; a poor dresser, has a poor relationship with his family and not particularly well off.Lucas is a sympathetic character, and runs a good operation. Roberts is a fault character but he is trying his best; he was working hard to clear up the police force. They are issues tackled in the film such as drug use, police corruption, race and the American Dream. It also has a fun little in joke that it takes a cop from New Jersey to sort out New York.Ridley Scott shows that he is a master of film-making. He has shown that he can make sci-fi, historical epic, war and now gangster and police film and I hope his next films are just as good.
Rear Window is one of Alfred Hitchcock's most highly regarded films and it is deserving of that distinction. Rear Window is a tout thriller that uses the minimalistic setting to the fullest as a invalid man becomes a voyeur of his neighbours and their activities and soon suspects one of his neighbours murdered their wife. Hitchcock expertly brings up into this world as we see the events and lives of other people from a distance and see the world through L.B. Jefferies' (James Stewart), making the world of the apartment courtyard with his camera pans and movements. As well as the entertaining murder mystery Rear Window was a film with snappy dialogue and character relationships whilst looking at different types of households and people in the different apartments, and how the idea of tight neat community was even dying back in the 50s.The Simpsons also made a very funny parody with the episode "Bart of Darkness"
The Wachowskis are best known as the directors of The Matrix Trilogy. But before they were allowed to direct the first great movie and the so-so sequels they had to prove they were capable as directors. To do this they made a neo-noir small thriller, Bound: which resulted with us getting a very entertaining film.Corky (Gina Gershon) is an ex-convict who is hired to refurbish an apartment. Next door is a Mafia money launder, Caesar (Joe Pantoliano) and his girlfriend Violet (Jennifer Tilly). But Corky quickly finds out that Violet is really a lesbian and two have an affair. They see a opportunity to steal $2 Million from the Mafia and make Caesar the fall guy. But as the plan to put into action it starts to unravel and people start to die.Bound was a low budget film with a small cast and of a minimum of locations. It was a film that had to be driven by the characters and the plot and Wachowskis gave us taut and stylist experience. Bound has a neo-noir, postmodern style throughout as the plot twists and turns as the women's have to react to the changing situation. The Wachowskis were able to make the film ooze out tension and sexual energy throughout as they make get use of the limited sets as the characters can hear what is going on in the other apartment.Bound has all the visual flair you would expect from the directors of The Matrix and it was filled with flashy tricks: highlighted by fluid camera moves, fantastic editing and perfectly placed camera positions. It was perfectly paced film and the editing make scenes follow together seamlessly. There are many moments and shots that's has striking similarities to The Matrix.Because of the crime story and much of the character moments and dialogue Bound felt very much like an early Quentin Tarantino film, particular Reservoir Dogs and Jackie Brown. They share similar styles and both Jackie Brown and Bound focusing on minor criminals and outsiders who plan to screw over a major criminal figure. Those films focus on a simple crime stories but are focused on the characters have a noir feel to them.Bound is an excellent film, a tight thriller that uses every moment of screenplay to great effect. The Wachowskis showed what they are capable of and ended up making an even better film.
In a very short space of time two post-apocalyptic films have been release, the brilliant The Road which is aiming for Oscar glory, and the action packed The Book of Eli which is appealing for the mass audience.30 years after a massive war which blow a hole in the sky, possibly a nuclear war, Eli (Denzel Washington) is a lone traveller heading to the West Coast of America. He is a skilled martial artist, armed with guns, a long knife and a bow and is carrying the last King James Bible. On the way he has to avoid and kill hijackers and cannibals. On his travel Eli has to stop off in a ramshackle of a town to buy water and recharge his gear. The town itself run on a barter economy. The leader of the town, Carnegie (Gary Oldman), was impressed by Eli's skill and even more impressed when he found out he can read. Carnegie offer's the traveller a place in his gang. But when Carnegie finds out Eli has the Bible he ends up searching for Eli. The Bible would give Carnegie the ideological based to strengthen his position and expand his power base. Eli goes on the run, hoping to go West and is joined by a young girl Solara (Mila Kunis). He teaches Solara about the Bible and religion and why it is important he goes west.The best thing about the film is the action. It was slick, stylist, well-edited and at times a fine long fixed shots. There are brilliant moments with the way the camera goes through buildings, and follows the action. The Hughes Brothers have good style as action directors, better then say Michael Bay or McG who throw everything at the camera.The story is not that original, there are elements of likes like Mad Max 2 and 3, The Road and the Man With No Name trilogy. But there are interesting ideas, the use of religion as political ideology, the use of religion as political control and showing both the good and bad sides of faith. Most films only show one side of the other: but this does both and I can praise it for that. I think given a bit of fine tuning then this could have been a really good script.As mentioned, the Hughes brothers have style as action directors, but they also filmed in a slightly washed out look, giving the film a more given a gritty, earthy feel. It doesn't camp it up like the third Max Mad film did. They pacing was good for the most part and allow you to get to the character as well as seeing the action. However some moments did drag the film and could have been sped up. Others just didn't fit, like the slightly comical scene with an elderly couple played by Frances de la Tour and Michael Gambon. 10 to 15 minutes could have been cut.Denzel Washington is possibly one of the coolest actors in the world. He was well cast as the protagonist, and since the character is a bit older then usual action hero Washington was the right age for the film. Gary Oldman does his use villainous role he is normally good at, look at his roles in True Romance, Leon, the Fifth Element and Air Force One. He gives his character a young Jack Nicholoson quality, though my brother said he reminded him of Bill the Butcher from Gangs of New York. He was good as he normally is. However whilst Mila Kunis is easy on the eye, her performance was weak and wooden. She wasn't believable as a young girl looking for a way out and able to grow as a character. At least she has Family Guy to fall back on. Other smaller roles were also not as convincing as the lead roles.This was a decent film, but there was room for improvement.
Inside Llewyn Davis is the latest film from the Coen Brothers, a drama centred around the Folk scene in the winter of 1961 in New York City, following Llewyn Davis (Oscar Isaac), a folk singer who has a amazing ability to rub people the wrong way and sofa surfs around Greenwich Village, attempts to make a living on his music and struggling to survive as he maintains he fulfils his dreams.Inside Llewyn Davis has an incredible cast with the likes of Isaac, Carey Mulligan, Justin Timberlake, John Goodman and Sally Hawkins. All of them give excellent performance and are armed with a sombre script that is still filled with wit and play well rounded and realised characters. Mulligan was blessed with the best lines and jokes in the film. The film has an excellent soundtrack, with songs sung live and performed in full.Llewyn is a unlikeable character as he enters into a world of self-destruction as he tries to juggle his life and be successful, but gain quick money. But there is reason as he is struggling with his brief whilst the cat serves as a symbol of the ups and downs of journey and showcasing his character.Inside Llewyn Davis has a great bleak look thanks to Bruno Delboonel, adding to the downbeat tone the Coens were going for as we follow Llewyn on his journey and see him into a vicious circle.7.5/10
In 2010 Avatar had become the highest grossing film in history with 3D ticket sales helping the film make over $2 Billion. 3D became all the rage and many films were post-converted into 3D to cash in. But the remake of Clash of the Titans was the first out the blocks and it became the post child for bad 3D post-conversions.In ancient Greece the Gods are losing their power as humans no longer pray to them and start to rebel against their creators. Hades (Ralph Fiennes) makes a powerplay on Mount Olympus by telling his brother Zeus (Liam Neeson) to make an example of the kingdom of Argos, forcing them to either make a human sacrifice or face destruction from the Kraken. But during Hades' lush for destruction Perseus (Sam Worthington), a demi-God living life as a human, loses his family and ends up promising to help Argos to defeat the Kraken. Perseus goes on a quest to find the weapon to destruction the Kraken with a troop of soldiers, including leader Draco (Mads Mikkelsen) and Io (Gemma Arterton), a woman cursed with immortality.I have only seen the 2D version of Clash of the Titans (2010), so I can only judge it purely as a film, not for its 3D effects. As a remake of the 1981 version it is inferior. The only improvements are the structure of the film where its narrative was more traditional compared to the original being a series of events, the band of soldiers were better defined and the remake Bubo the owl no more then a cameo.Director Louis Leterrier came from an action background and he certainly handles action and special effects well enough. The best sequences were when the deformed Calibos (Jason Flemyng) shows up, ripping a man in half and splitting blood (surprisingly violence for a PG-13 film) and the battle with the giant scorpions. Leterrier does know how to stage the sequences, but he did have a tendency to use slo-mo which is his style. He also liked to use overblown CGI sequences, such as when someone throws a coin into the River Styx. Leterrier's eye was also not grand enough for the film he did not success he with the film's setting being more grounded: he is much more suited to modern set stories.Clash of the Titans embarks on different tones, sometimes it was very serious, other times felt very campy. There were times when it wanted to serious, almost Lord of the Rings likes with its ideas that the Gods needed humans and their relationship to each other and there are dark moments, such as the death of Perseus' family: but the writing wasn't strong enough to back it up. Added to that there were some really bad moments like the origins of Calibos was so cheesy and overblown with him getting stuck by lightning and lifting an idea from Excalibur. And despite the attempts of a serious tone for the most part the film felt the need to add two comic relief hunter characters who felt like they steps out of The Scorpion King.Whilst the troops had more character then in the original film many of the other characters were unwritten. This is clear with the Gods and Andromeda was barely in the film. Calibos too was much better handled in the original then he was in the remake: it was a waste of Jason Flemyng. Clash of the Titans was also filled with Deus Ex Machinas, such as a race of desert sorcerers known as Djinn who stop and tame the scorpions to the sudden taming of a Pegasus.The casting was poor. Worthington was given a lot of stick for the role and he was stiff: but he was miscast and the role should have gone to an actor in his early to mid-20s. Many of the other actors like Neeson and Mikkelsen seen to accept their roles for the paycheque and Fiennes was basically playing Lord Voldermort again.Clash of the Titans was a disappointment because there was potential: it was a film that was in need of a good re-write and flesh out its ideas and characters. I feel there is a place in for films based on Greek mythology due to the vase source material and filmmakers can go from Lord of the Rings style seriousness to a Pirates of the Caribbean like romp. Sadly Clash of the Titans does not fill that void.
The fifth Star Trek film, The Final Frontier is often considered the worst Star Trek film. It is a film bogged by a underdeveloped script, poor special effects and the ego of its director, William Shatner.After the events of Star Trek IV: The Voyage Home the crew of the Enterprise is on shore level as Scottie (James Doohan) tries to make new Enterprise functional. But the Enterprise are called into action when a rogue Vulcan Sybok (Laurence Luckinbill) takes hostages on the planet Nimbus III from the Federation and Klingon and Romulan empires with Sybok believing he has found the origin of creation.After Star Trek IV was made Paramount was contractually obligated to let Shatner to direct the fifth Trek film and give him script approval him, leaving us a film of Captain Kirk battling God. There are decent ideas in the film, particularly that all cultures have some brief that there is a God, or a creator some sort and how would religion function in a intergalactic world? But it is was the script that was underdeveloped and many of these ideas were not fully explored. Also the whole theme about God goes against what Star Trek has been about, especially with the outright mention of God.The other little idea that was that Sybok could take away the personal pain of people , despite the fact that it our experiences that make us who we are.But there are holes in the script. The first is if the Enterprise is in such bad condition why would Starfleet send the Enterprise, just send the crew to another ship and wouldn't Spock have to tell his commanding officers of the conflict of interest.The Final Frontier has numerous problems. For a film with the serious subject matter this is a film that suffers from poor comedy that pads the film like the infamous 'Row Row Row Your Boat" singing scene. There is also the infamous fan dance which raises two questions: first if this was plan A to distract the guards what the hell was plan B? Second who would want to see a woman in her mid-fifties dance half naked? This also leads to the problem that many of the cast members looked too old for their roles, with Leonard Nimoy and William Shatner developing big bellies and not fit enough.The special effects looked like they had a massive step back, looking really cheap and substandard. The movements were more jerky, the lighting effects looking poor, terrible green screen and the film is even more dated then the previous entries in the series.One good attitude in the films favour is the excellent score provide by Jerry Goldsmith, a better score then the films deserves.Star Trek V: The Final Frontier is a wasted opportunity which did not fulfil the potential.
American History X is in my mind a modern classic, a must see film. It is a social commentary, looking at real relations and the American prison and education systems. It was well written, well directed, but most of all, brilliantly acted.American History X tell two stories. The first is about Danny Vinyard (Ed Furlong), a teenage member of neo-Nazis in Venice Beach, California, as he goes deeper into the crowd. The other story is about Derek (Ed Norton), a young leader of the neo-Nazis who kills two black men who try to steal his car and tell his story of his life in the group and prison. The film starts with a flash back where the Danny see the black men trying to steal the car and tell his brother who he idolises. Danny sees Derek brutally murder the two men before getting arrested. The film then goes to the present day where Danny writes book report on Mein Kampt in a positive way. This obviously gets him in trouble with his school and he is told to write a new report was going to be taught one-to-one by the African American principal Dr. Sweeney (Avery Brooks). On the same day Derek is released from prison, a reformed man. Everyone in the family was worried about Danny, and don't want him to go down the road. The neo-Nazis try to bring Danny deeper into the fold and get back Derek, but Derek fights this and tells his younger brother everything that happened to him and how his personal ideology had changed.This is a powerful movie and I thought that it was great ever since I saw it on televisions years ago. It tackles touch issues and is brutal in its approach. It is a very well made and a great example of indie film making. It is a shame that Tony Kane has done another film and distances himself from it. Ed Norton is superb in this film and shows that he is a man who loves acting. Ed Furlong is also very good, and Avery Brooks. You see some tough race issues and how the neo-Nazis in California function. It looks at the power struggles in an American prison, and problems in American communities. There is nothing in my mind to fault this film and if you are over 16, you should watch it.
Movie adaptation of hit TV shows are always a risky task as filmmakers try and adapt a property with a new cast and updating it to a contemporary age. The adaption and re-make 21 Jump Street decides a different approach, changing the genre from a police drama to a high school/buddy comedy film, with excellent results.In 2005 Schmidt (Jonah Hill) is a nerd and a loser, bullied by the very stupid Jenko (Channing Tatum), a popular jock. However the two become friends at the police training academy, Schmidt helping Jenko with his academic work, whilst Jenko motivates Schimdt with physical training. During their arrest the pair show their incompetents when Jenko does not write the Miranda rights to a suspect and their superior officer transfers them to 21 Jump Street, a special division that sends young officers into high school. Their mission, to infiltrate a drugs ring in a high school and find the supplier of a new manufactured drug before it spreads to other schools. Yet the officers' roles are reversed, with Schmidt the popular kid and Jenko, the loser outsider.What makes 21 Jump Street what is that it is a self-aware comedy and was prepared to embrace clichés of the high school and buddy comedy/action comedy genres so the filmmakers could make fun of them. 21 Jump Street shows that it is willing to make fun of Hollywood and the idea's process, the archetypes of high school and in police films. The popular kids at high school are shown to be a mixed bag, people who care about their futures, not in a particular clique and made to seem a bit more real. Admittedly the nerd characters were a bit too stereotypical but we can't have everything and at least they were not made out to be total losers. There are bites again buddy cop clichés, with Ice-T having great lines and put downs as the angry, black police captain.21 Jump Street is more focused on comedy then action, but there comic action set pieces, one early one in the film, the other being a car chase on the freeway, playing on the idea that a freeways are busy and has fun against the bombast of other action-comedies like Lethal Weapon and Bad Boys.21 Jump Street was directed by Phil Lord and Chris Miller whose previous film was Cloudy with a Chance of Meatballs, a family animated film: yet they moved into an adult comedy with ease and there is even a really trippy scene when the characters are high, inject a surreal style to the film.In the past I have critical of Tatum in the past, having seen him in films like G.I. Joe: The Rise of Cobra and Haywire but with 21 Jump Street he found his strongest suit, comedy. He had great comic timing and relations with Hill. Jenko grows as a character throughout the film, becoming more likable, understanding, smarter, loyal and intelligent. With the right direction he can become a great action star.Whilst 21 Jump Street is a really entertaining film there are some criticisms. The first is Dave Franco: I know him best for role in the last series of Scrubs where he was very annoying . He just felt like a pretentious little man and was just well, a non-present in the film. The other is the relationship between Schmidt and Molly (Brie Larson) where it just felt a little out of place. Larson was fine in the film, it basically felt like fantasy reliving for Hill. The filmmakers should have focused more on the flirting and infatuation of the chemistry teacher (Ellie Kemper) who fancied Jenko and knowing it is wrong. It was played up in the trailers.21 Jump Street is an enjoyable comedy, a refreshing take on both the buddy genre and high school genre and entertaining film.
Back in 2008 Martin McDonagh made very funny dark comedy In Bruges. Not to be out done, his brother John Michael McDonagh made his own dark comedy, The Guard.Gerry Boyle (Brendan Gleeson) is a Gardai Sergeant for a rural community in Galway in West Ireland. He is a very unconventional police officer, willing to try drugs, sleeps with prostitutes, shows a great amount of knowledge and his mother is dying. But not interested in the grander schemes of life. In Galway are a group of gangsters (Liam Cunningham, Mark Strong and David Wilmot) who plan to import $500 Million of cocaine into the British Isles and the straight lace FBI Agent Wendell Everett (Don Cheadle) is leading the investigate. Soon Boyle ends up working with Wendell when investigating the death of a drug dealer and the disappearance of Boyle's partner, Aidan McBride (Rory Keenan).The Guard is a dialogue driven comedy and it was reliance on top performance from Gleeson and Cheadle and both of them deliver. The Guard is a buddy comedy with a little bit of Hot Fuzz thrown in. The Guard's final shootout was very similar to the final shootout in Hot Fuzz, if played a little more realistic in its style of action.The score by the band Calexico was awesome, giving The Guard a Western score that easily honours anything from The Man With No Name Trilogy. It was epic, upbeat and dramatic when it needs to be. It is inkeeping to a Western theme of a peaceful, wilderness turn into a lawless area as violence crimes start to happen. There is also a play on a typical American attitude of some town and rural people having a distrust people from big cities, where people from Galway have a dislike and distrust of people from the big 'bad' city of Dublin.At times some of the jokes do not work and it does take a little time for the film to get going. The scene where Boyle sells some guns to a IRA Cowboy (Pat Shortt) felt very out of place. For me it is a film that offers smiles and chuckles more then lots of full out laughs, but plenty of people do enjoy this film considering the critical reaction it received. But personally I think the film is a little overrated.
The Terminator is a modern classic. It is a great example of action cinema, making Arnold Schwarzenegger in a superhero, being James Cameron's first major hit and cements Stan Winston reputation as a special effects wizard.The premise of The Terminator is simple, a cyborg is sent back in time to kill the mother of the leader of the human resistance before he is born. In the year 2029, the world is in the aftermath of a nuclear war and machines have taken over the world. But the machines have lost to the human resistance, and they send back a Terminator (800-series) (Arnold Schwarzenegger) to kill Sarah Conner (Linda Hamilton). The humans send Kyle Reese (Michael Biehn) as a protector, and both have to battle to cyborg and the police to save themselves.The story is simple and effective. It is just a mighty entertaining film, with great dialogue and wonderful action scene. They are visions of an apocalyptic future, as well as the scenes set in 1984, with The Terminator and Kyle Reese cause death and destruction across Los Andreas. James Cameron shows his skill as a writer and director, focusing on character development of his two main characters, showing how Sarah Conner turned from a scared kid to a strong woman that she becomes. The Terminator is show to be a totally ruthless machine, and it is easily the best role Arnold Schwarzenegger has ever done. I love the use of models, showing the dedication of James Cameron and Stan Winston to the project. They were great designs throughout the film. The film does have a B-Movie feel to it, but that what people like about it. It was meant to be fun. It is an example of gun porn and the fear of nuclear war which is often a theme in Cameron's films.A must see for film fans.
I am a big fan of X-Men, the comic books, the cartoon in the 90s and the first two films. I was looking forward to X-Men 3 when it came out and I had high hopes, unfortunately they was dashed after the first half-hour. This film has a number of problems. Firstly the lost of Bryan Singer. He gave the film character development, the society context and made it as realistic as possible. Brett Ratner came from an action background and he just focused on the action. They was no character development and they were too many characters in the film, so it was hard to care for some of them. The lost of Singer's writing team was also an important factor and Simon Kinberg was brought in to write the third film. He writes with major plot holes and under developing many aspects in films. Examples of his work are XXX: 2 State of the Union (a very bad film), Mr. and Mrs. Smith (a good film, but I think it ends too abruptly) and Jumper. If I was a producer of the film I would have fought tooth and nail to keep Singer and his writing team.My other major criticism is that X-Men 3 strays too far from the comic books and the first two films. Cyclops and Xavier were both killed off very early in the film, which never happens in the comics. Cyclops was only killed off because James Marsden ended up being in Superman Returns which ironically a Singer movie. Mystique was also removed from the film with little screen time. This was because Rebecca Romjin ended up in Ugly Betty. She ends up giving up Magneto to the US government which I don't see as realistic because I can't picture someone like her changing ideology that easily: it would be like a senior member of Al-Qaida walking into the headquarters of the FBI and telling them where Bin Laden and everyone else was. Rouge also had little screen time in the film and hardly featured in it at all. Nightcrawler was not present in the film which was a shame because Alec Cumming played the role very well and the storyline of him and Storm together could have been built on from the second film. Characters were added but I wonder why with some of them. Angel was added and in the advertising for the film he was set up as a major character. He added NOTHING to the film. Juggernaut was also in the film, but he was played by Vinnie Jones, who just can't acted. I also felt X-Men 3 was not loyal to the first two films. At the end of X-Men 2 the Dark Phoenix story was set up as the major storyline for the next film, but it was just regulated to a side story in the third film. The whole point of the Dark Phoenix story was absolute power corrupts, but again this was not shown and she was shown to be a schizophrenic. I also felt that the way they were going to set it up was the machine in the first film made Jean Grey more powerful because it was shown slowly in the second film that her powers had growth, and it was even mention at the beginning of the second film.They are many other criticisms of the film and many other people have already mentioned them. The only one that I will add to is Haile Berry demanding more screen time, I personally would have casted another actress to put her in her place, because I don't think she's anything special.The film is still fun in places, Beast and Colossus were good additions and the actions was good, especially Wolverine in the forest.I personally think that the third film should be ignored and redone by the studio to give the fans what they need. I would have also liked to have seen more of the mutant discrimination on the ground level of society (i.e. normal people), or seen a storyline involving groups like Friends of Humanity. I would have like to see Gambit in the film because he is a more dark and complex character and the film-makers could have added a love-triangle story involving him, Rouge and Iceman.
I recently went to see Paranormal Activity which has been dubbed 'the scariest film ever'. It was a massive disappointment, a boring film with only a good ending as a saving grace. Most modern American horror films are either remakes, gorno or simply poor efforts, long gone are the days with great horror films like The Shinning, The Exorcist and The Omen. The best hope for good horror films have been foreign cinema, with entries from Asia like A Tale of Two Sisters and the Ring following the right rules towards horror cinema. The Spanish are also getting in on the act, with the excellent fantasy Pan's Labyrinth and now the ghost thriller the Orphanage.Set on the coast of Spain, Laura (Belén Rueda) buys the orphanage she grew up in when she was a child. She is married to Carlos (Fernando Cayo), a doctor and have an adopted son Simón (Roger Príncep). Laura wants to reopen the orphanage as a care centre for special needs children. Simón is a lonely child and has a couple of imagery friends. Laura and Carlos believes that it's just a phase. When in a cave he makes a new 'friend' and tells Laura of the game he plays, taking away something you love and leaving clues to help you find it. Tensions with Simón start to grow when he discovers he is adopted and HIV positive. One the day when centre is about to open Simón disappears and Laura is attacked by child wearing a sack mask. After months with Simón missing Laura still senses Simón is alive and that there is a strange present in the house. She does everything she can to find her son.Guillermo del Toro was a producer for The Orphanage, which helped with the film's marketing, but he does also have a good eye for film. There is trusty name reconization.The Orphanage follows the most important rule of horror cinema, have compelling characters, and Laura is a character you can sympathise with. You have to care about what happens to her. There is also a strong underlining theme/fear, the lost of a child. The acting in this film is excellent, especially Belén Rueda and it helped you believe in the characters.There is a good script by Sergio G. Sánchez who focuses on the family drama as well as the ghostly elements. He tells a compelling story and keeps you guessing. This story has a few similarities with The Sixth Sense and A Tale of Two Sisters (namely the plot twists). He references a few popular cultural items like The Shinning and Peter Pan. The direction by Juan Antonio Bayona is subtle and understand, which gives the scares more of an impact. Despite it's supernatural story, Bayona keeps the film fairly grounded, he crosses the direction William Friedkin of the Exorcist and Ji-woon Kim of A Tale of Two Sisters. He makes the film both a horror and a thriller.Worth watching.
Except for the Hurt Locker and films being part of established franchise i.e. Bond and Bourne, films about Iraq and the War of the Terrorism have failed to impress critics and the movie-going public. Examples include Body of Lies, Green Zone, Lions for Lambs, The Kingdom and In the Valley of Elah. This is a shame because many of them are actually pretty good. Rendition joins them on all three points.Rendition focuses on the events of Anwar El-Ibrahimi (Omar Metwally), an Egyptian born chemical engineer. He is arrested by the CIA when he flies by from South Africa and his records are erased before being sent to North Africa to be tortured, because the American's don't torture they let other people do it for them. He is questioned by an intelligence head Abasi Fawal (Yigal Naor) but CIA analyst Douglas Freeman (Jake Gyllenhaal) doubts whether Anwar is a terrorist of any kind. His boss Corrine Whitman (Meryl Streep) is of the dogmatic believe that rendition and terror works.In America, Anwar's pregnant wife Isabella (Reese Witherspoon) lobbies her local Senator to find out what happened to her husband. But despite the efforts of Senatorial aid Alan Smith (Peter Sarsgaard) the Senator is too scared to make a move in case there is a national security backlash (the politics of fear).A subplot involves Abasi's daughter Fatima (the very beautiful Zineb Oukach) who had fallen for Khalid (Moa Khouas). But unknown to her Khalid had been radicalised and part of a terrorist cell, planning an attack in the North African country.Rendition is obviously about a very topical issue and people in the Bush administration are very unapologetic, like Dick Clancy who claimed it kept America save and that anyone who did not agree is pretty much in league with terrorists. However I am of the view if we agree torture then what does it say about us as a society? If we agree torture for terrorist suspects then where would it lead to? We can end up living in a police state. If we want to win the war on terror we must show we are better then terrorists, not sink down to they level, show we live in a world of laws and treat them like crimes. Torturing people only stokes up hatred and acts as a recruiting tool. Plus torture is not a graduated way to gather information because A. a competent terrorist cell leader may train their people to withstand torture, B. people of real devotion to their cause are hard to break, C. if a suspect is smart he could use torture as a way to give misinformation, D. innocent people my crack and just saying anything to make the pain stop, E. questioners may use torture to gain for confessions. My rant is over but the film makes many of those points.As a spy thriller Rendition is very well made and clever. It is believable and grounded with how operations what, looking at the ground level spies and terrorists. The way Anwar was captured was very realistic and anyone who is interested in spy thrillers will like how the film tackles it's subject. The film also handles it politics well, with showing a weakness in modern American politics where people don't stand up for their beliefs anymore and worry about their public image. Steep's character was a great illusion of the evil of the policy of rendition, claiming it saves lives and dogmatically believes in even the weakest of evidence when everything else does not support it. It pretty much is sums up America's attitude towards Muslims and dogmatic views.There is a strong plot about the wrongful 'arrest' of a Muslim man and goes through the all effects about torture and how a real people would react. This includes Witherspoon who is desperate to find out what happened to her husband. But subplot about Fatima and Khalid did not fit with the rest of the film and should have been cut. The actors themselves were good and it could have worked as a separate film, but the focus of Rendition should have been on the rest of the characters.Gavin Hood is a good director, getting the pacing, the action, serious tone and the atmosphere of Washington D.C. and North Africa. He was able to balance the three stories together and shows he has potential for the future.There is a good cast in this film. Metwally, Streep, Oukach, Khouas and Witherspoon were all very good through out the film. All of them are talented actors did well in their roles. Streep's character is someone you love to hate (assuming you are not a neo-con). However, Gyllenhall was very disappointing in the film. He was wooden and disappeared off the screen. He lacked the committed and he is better then that considering his roles in Donnie Darko, Brokeback Mountain and Zodiac. At least the others make up for his shortfall.Overall, if you are interested in politics or espionage then you will like Rendition.
The Battle of Algiers is recognised as a classic film, having a high IMDb and Rotten Tomatoes scores and being placed 120th on Empire's 500 Greatest Movies of All Time in 2008. There is a great reason why it is so regarded, getting all areas of filmmaking right and having such an impact that the French banned it: the French need to learn to accept criticism.As the title suggests the Battle of Algiers focuses on the Battle of Algiers between 1955 to 1957 during the Algerian War of Independence. Gillo Pontecorvo's film focuses on both sides of the conflict, Ali La Pointe (Brahim Hadjadj), a young ex-prisoner who joins the National Liberation Front (FLN) and becomes a senior leader and Lieutenant-Colonel Mathieu (Jean Martin), a Free-French veteran who heads the Counter-Terrorism operation.Pontecorvo shows the harsh nature of this war, the Algerians fighting for independence, a simple nationalist idea of self-rule and the French, whilst not explained in the film, fought for two main reasons, the first being Algeria was seen as a part of France and the closest colony they had India that British had and they had already suffered two major defeats, World War II and Vietnam, they did not fancy a third. During this conflict there was no real good guys, the FLN were willing to use women and children to pass on messages, weapons and place bombs in busy cafés. Teenagers are used to kill police officers and the FLN organises strikes to show it is a wider movement. On the French side Mathieu is show to be a competent commander and that leaders of FLN work in cells so they could not betray each other, but the French resort to torture, checkpoints and quick raids, using intimation and violence. Whilst the Colons (French colonists) start to turn their racism against Arabs into violence attacks against anyone Arab, including children.Pontecorvo sets out to show the wider picture of what went on during the war: it was a tough, brutal war that American Generals during the Iraqi War have studied the conflict because of the similarities between them. There are a lot of modern parallels, from army officers having to talk to the media, the army trying to use media for their own aims, that there is two sides and two stories during a war and that characters are mixed, what is considered a legitimate target, what is terrorism, who is your real enemy, how you gather popular support and many more issues. You could thrown in a lot other historical events that are similar to Algeria, from the General Strikes in Apartheid South Africa to the Arab uprising.There is great acting throughout the film and you could easily believe in them and their actions. They are fully developed and there is a true mixed picture because that is what the world is like. Both sides were willing to do unpleasant, illegal acts. Pontecorvo knew how to add tension in a film, from the action scenes, to where people hide from the police and army or weapons. The music really adds to the atmosphere, some of the best judge music as the tension builds in scenes. There is no glamour in this war.
South Korea, along with Japan and Germany makes some of the cinema in the world. A Tale of Two Sisters is an fine example of this, working well as a horror and thriller, with great twist that you won't see coming.This film tells the story of Su-Mi (Im Soo Jung) and Su-Yeon (Moon Geun Young), two sisters who have just returned home after being in a psychiatric ward after the death of their mother. They have to live with a distant father and a bitchy step-mum, who abuses Su-Yeon, the timid one of the sisters. Both sisters are very close, and Su-Mi looks out for her younger sister. On their first night back strangle thing happen in the house, hearing footsteps in the middle of the night, doors opening by themselves and both sisters suffer from seeing images. It is something to do with their step mum, is it something supernatural or are they just going insane.Hollywood really don't know how to make good horror films; they just focus on violence and death and that's what turns me off the genre. Directors, writers and producers really need to watch a film like this to understand how to make a good horror film. Like any good film, the best horrors focus on two things, character and ideas. Within A Tale of Two Sisters you care for the two main characters who are very well developed and you care about what happens to them. Some horrors also take away the mystery by relieving too much, thereby taking away the scare and suspense. The writer/director Kim Ji-woon keeps the mystery, so you don't know what's going to happen. He understands the genre. He made a complex film with plenty of twists. He is a man who knows his craft and this is the first film I saw of his.The acting is excellent, especially from Im Soo Jung and Moon Geun Young. I would like to see more from those two.This film was recommended to me by a friend, and I now I recommend it to you. It is a complex film that possibly needs multiple viewings. If you like the Sixth Sense then you will like this film.
Ever since Martin Scorsese won his long overdue Oscar with The Departed he could anything he wants as a filmmaker. After his homage to B-Horror films with Shutter Island film fans were taken aback when he announced he was going to a 3D Family film. But of course Scorsese impressed critics and fans the world over once again.In a train station in Paris in the 1930 Hugo Cabret (Asa Butterfield) is an orphan boy who maintains the clocks in the station. He has to steal to survive and he has to avoid the Station Inspector (Sasha Baron Cohen). His only link to his dead father (Jude Law) is a broken automata robot which he was fixing and believes that if he gets it to work he would get a message from his father from beyond the grave. He meets a girl, Isabelle (Chloe Grace Moretz) who has a key to unlock the automata so it can work and relieve it secrets. It turns out that it leads to a bigger secret involving Isabelle's godfather and surrogate parent, Papa Georges (Ben Kingsley).Many people were very hesitant towards Hugo, partly because it was something very different from Scorsese's previous films, but mainly because of its very slapstick heavy trailer. But of course Scorsese is one of the best directors ever and he delivers with his family film for adults. Hugo is a mystery that is for most part is serious, with a few moments of comedy. The whole story about the automata is solved pretty quickly and the film then turns into a love letter to early cinema and how very inventive early filmmakers were with set design and scope of story. All the characters have all their issues and problems they need to overcome, Hugo himself is lonely and suffering from grief, trying to find that one connection to his father who died in a tragic accident. Georges is a man wants to forget the past and whilst on the surface a seemingly bitter man there is a lot issues and character behind it. Isabelle is a young girl who lived a shuttered life, escaping into a world of adventure and longs for one herself and ask what her purpose in life (despite the fact she is only 11/12). Even the minor characters have mini-arcs, like The Station Inspector who needs to gain the courage to ask out the flower girl (Emily Mortimer) and the newspaper seller (Richard Griffiths) wanting to get to know the café (Frances de la Tour) but her dachshund keeps attacking him. Hugo has an pleasant old fashion feel to through, a good natured mystery about children working together to solve a mystery and showing they are mature enough to handle secret and that it works as a coming of age story. If anything it might be a little too pleasant because there is no real scene of danger or peril.Scorsese uses the train station setting to great effect, bring us into this little world. The 3D was great for most of the film, Scorsese knew how to use the technology, putting items in the foreground to enhance the effect and the wintry weather added to 3D, showing things in the distance. Scorsese knows how to move the camera, to show us this world and brings us a depth of feel like looking down a letter. The use of clock towers and a mechanical automata really are perfect for 3D films just because of the different layers of cogs and mechanical parts. Scorsese also brings has some excellent set pieces involving a sequence involving a train crashing through the station and Hugo dream that he turns into the automata. The 3D and editing compliment the sequences.The acting is great. We know that Butterfield and Mortez are great child actors, having shown their talents in The Boy in the Striped Pyjamas and Kick-Ass. They have a great chemistry together and work together. Despite an initial animosity they become friends very quickly. Hugo is a character with a talent for fixing things, working with his hands, but is sad, lonely and at times angry. He longs to have one last connection with his father, the person he loved the most. Mortez performance reminded me of a young Emma Watson as Hermione Granger, but not as obnoxious: a book smart character who has a sense of adventure. Mortez is a better actress then Watson and she does an excellent English accent for such a young American actress. Of course the adult cast is strong, Kingsley actually playing a good guy for once as a man trying to suppress the past because it hurts too much, even if it affects the rest of his family. Cohen is a funny as the comic foil character whilst a villain, not an evil man, just someone doing his job. It also shows Cohen can be funny in a family friendly way.The theme of Hugo is the celebration of how filmmakers were inventive, how they turned this new media which was written off as a fad and show its potential as a form of storytelling, art and basically allowing people to see and fulfil their dreams and fantasy. Scorsese does this using the newest tool to film making, though 3D is properly on the way because producers see it as a way to make a extra money. 3D as a tool that should be used when there is a real reason, when the director actually envisions how to use it and it needs to be done using 3D cameras and on set.Howard Shore also shows that he is a talented composer, giving Hugo a filling score, using typical French movie to music that would have been used in silent films.I do not believe Hugo is Martin Scorsese's best film and as a family film I think it is more geared to adults, but Hugo is a very good film.
Edward Zwick is a unique director and respected in Hollywood. He is known for making action films, but action films with a conscious and a social message. His previous films have often have a theme of oppressed people, like Glory, a American Civil War film about the first all-Black unit in the Union army, The Siege, about Islamophobia and how Muslims are rounded up into camps by the American army (and that was before 9/11) and Blood Diamond was able the illegal diamond trade, the evil actions of RUF and how Africa is ignored by the rest of the world. With Defiance Zwick was able to attach an talented cast to a film about Jewish fighters during the Second World War.Starting in 1941, Belorussia has been conquered by the Nazi Germany and the SS and local Belorussian police start rounding up and killing Jews. The Bielski brothers, Tuvia (Daniel Craig), Zus (Live Schreiber), Asael (Jamie Bell) and Aron (George MacKay) are lucky to survive and escape into Białowieża Forest. In the forest more Jewish survivors find them and they start to form a camp. Tuvia, Zus and Asael star to raid the Germans and the collaborators and the Jews become a small guerrilla force. But Tuvia and Zus disagree on their approach, Tuvia wanting to be diplomatic with the locals and Zus wanted the group to be more aggressive and fight the Germans. Tuvia continues to lead the group as a collective and Zus leads to join Soviet Partisans where he had to face anti-Semitic attitudes within their ranks.Zwick is a good director, he knows how to film an action scene and he made a fast paced film. This is not quite the Saving Private Ryan style of action, but he does show being shot is still bloody. The fighting in this film is often close quarters, not big scale battles and he simply focused on the Bielskis. The Germans were simply made as the empty from afar. This was not an in depth look into the Holocaust, simply about surviving and avoiding be captured. But this is not a film about fighting the Germans, it is more about how would you survive in the woods as a commune.Historical what the Bielskis achieved militarily was a footnote, but as a story of survival and the impact it had on a community and human lives it is important. Some areas could have been explored more, like more about Anti-Semitism within the Soviet Union and show the complex people with the local politics, national politics and international relations. When Germany did invade the Soviet Union, a lot of people did welcome them as liberators from Stalin's regime, unfortunately the Nazis were just as bad.One of the weird things about Defiance is that the characters speak in English with Russian accents, but sometimes spoke in Russian. It made no real sense to have both: either have the characters speak in Russian/Belarusian or in English, not both. It was a bit of a misstep for Zwick.Zwick employed Eduardo Serra as his cinematography, a skilled man working on Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows and Unbreakable. With Defiance he used a grey filler which added to bleakness what it would have been like living in the woods and having to live of the wilds and be like bandits But the drawback was that it was hard to see anything during an action sequence at night. James Newton Howard also added a sad, violin based score, which was similar to Schindler's List: I would not be surprised that Howard was influenced by that film.I personally would not have made the actors of the film use Russian accents, but if is acceptable in this film. Craig is a great actor, but his Russian accent was not the best it could have been. He did give a good performance and so did Bell, but it was Schreiber who was the best performer. He was more confident with the accent and I could easily believe that he was a more hot headed man who wanted to fight. He is also a big guy which you would not want to get on the wrong side of him. Plus the film also featured Mia Wasikowska before she became famous.
The Thing is a remake of the 1951 sci-fi horror film The Think From Another World and it is rarity because it is often considered better then the original. It is also often considered John Carpenter's best film.In the Antarctic a Norwegian helicopter team try to shoot a Husky dog where it runs into an American scientific outpost. The Norwegian seems mad so the Americans kill him. But when the Americans explore the Norwegian's base they discovery they had discovered something and everyone has died. Back at the American base they discover that the dog is really an alien who's cells can copy any other creatures. The Americans do not only have to battle a big monster but each other, as the alien is able to pretend it is human and a spirit of paranoia and distrust is fostered.As a horror it works for a number of reasons. The characters are simply men living in close quarters, playing games, watching videos, discussing what to do, getting annoyed with each other, typical people who have something extraordinary happen to them. They are not your typical horror film jerks, at least not at the beginning. The film also has a very simple but scary idea, who do you trust and when trust breaks down what people are willing to do. It is a scary idea that people you know well could end up attacking you and that a monster can take any living form. But it is not just suspect, there is plenty of gore and the special effects of the monster taking many different forms were both very well done and wonderfully gross. It is so good to practical effects, nowadays it would just be some CGI effect which lacks physicality and threat. The Thing has a very minimalistic style, there are only seven characters, the whole film is mostly set within the base and the freezing outside, it makes for a claustrophobic atmosphere knowing that there is no escape. Even the music is kept to a simple, using only a few notes or chores and only one instrument is used at a time: added to that Carpenter allowed no music at all some key scenes, having more impact and surprise then a musical cue telling the audience how to feel.Acting wise only really Kurt Russell and Keith David (who has an awesome voice) notable members of the cast, doing a decent enough job. Everyone else seems to blend into the background. But overall no one was terrible and overall The Thing was a very well made horror film.
Based on a critically acclaimed novel, Perfume is a very strange, surreal and compelling film from the director of Run Lola Run.In the 18th century Jean-Baptiste Grenouille (Ben Whishaw) is a young man who has a unique and strong sense of smell but has no smell himself. Growing up in an orphan Grenouille has a poor social skills before being made a tanner apprentice. But Grenouille wants to work as a perfumer and convinces an Italian shop owner, Giuseppe Baldini (Dustin Hoffman) to teach him the tricks of the trade and capture scents. Genouille goes to the town of Grasse to continue his studies in the trade but soon Genouille becomes more obsessed and starts to murder attractive women in the town to create the perfect scent.Perfume is a very interesting film with a lot of strengths, great acting, period detail, the music and cinematography. Originally it was reported that Stanley Kubrick wanted to direct and was one of two choices the author Patrick Suskind thought could do the book justice. There is certainly a strong Kubrickian feel to the film and it seems like a very dark version of Barry Lyndon. The narration by John Hurt is very similar to Barry Lyndon and unlike most third person narrations, it actually added to the film. The camera moves are very much like a Kubrick like and there is also a little hint of Terry Gilliam influencing the film. Tom Tykwer certainly shows skill and he was even able to make scenes like when Grenouille makes a perfume compelling.Ben Whishaw is a very talented young actor, turning his character from a young man who wants to see and smell world he wanted to explore to someone who is creepy, a young man with no social skills which results in him becoming a serial killer. He is an unlikable character but Tykwer is able to make you interested in the character. Dustin Hoffman and Alan Rickman both offer experience to the film, Hoffman being a reluctant mentor but slowly warms to young man and gives his character a slight Italian accent. Rickman has a very rare role for him, he plays a good guy. He is the only man who speaks reason because the town needed to catch the killer and has the intelligence to see what's going on. You could feel his pain of the whole situation.The problem with the film is the final 15 minutes when it turned really surreal and just lost the plot. It was this part that weakens the film, preventing it from being a totally great film. There is also a little theme that every master Grenouille is killed when he leaves them: maybe play up the fact the guy is cursed.Overall Perfume is a fine film, a strong art-house film mixing drama, history and horror.
Over the years the genre of Dark Comedy has provided some of funniest films and television around, from Dr. Strangelove, Pulp Fiction, Family Guy, South Park, etc In Bruges can easily be classified as excellent addition to the genre.Ray (Colin Farrell) and Ken (Brendan Gleeson) are to two hit men who are sent to the city of Bruges after a hit goes badly wrong. They are meant to prose as tourists as their await for instructions from their boss Harry (Ralph Fiennes). They do this despite Ray hating the city; but he finds someone for entertainment in the form of Chloë (Clémence Poésy). Ray attempts to seduce the young woman and ends up going through a number of bouts of violence in the process. But in the midst of the fun and games Ken is given an impossible choice by Harry whilst in the city which if he doesn't do it his life is forfeit.In Bruges is the first film from Martin McDonagh who is best known as a playwright in Ireland: but well, he has a talent as a director and screenwriter. In Bruges is funny throughout and whilst it does edge towards being offensive at times, McDonagh uses this to his advantages. McDonagh writes an excellent script with great, witty dialogue, funny jokes, a bit of violence slapstick and a simple but effective and believable story. His talent as a director also is shown, allowing for comedy and violence but also there are moments of real drama, darkness and character development. There is an event that couldn't be done in a Hollywood and McDonagh does shock the audience with it. McDonagh's pacing is quick and for a first time director he has some excellent shots from funny fight scenes to a more touching small moment with Colin Farrell lying in bed and cries out a single tear.There is an excellent cast in the film. Colin Farrell before this film had a reputation as a bad boy and his acting career seemed to be on the slide to poor action and indie films. But with In Bruges he was able to bounce back and proved that he is a talented actor, having excellent comedic timing and able to show he can also be a serious actor with his role. This is the best film he has ever done. Ralph Fiennes was very funny and effective as the foul-mouth Cockney gangster with a short temper. This is a very different role for the man and excellent in the film. Brendan Gleeson too was very good in the film and with Colin Farrell a very funny double. Clémence Poésy's role wasn't as developed as the other characters but she was decent. Jordan Prentice was very funny as a bigoted dwarf American actor making a film in the city.Basically an outrageously funny film throughout.
In an alternative version of England they has been a medical breakthrough back in 1952 where scientists are able to cure most diseases and people are able to live to 100. But a cost is a new underclass of people has developed, breed for a dark destiny. Three of these people are Kathy H (Carey Mulligan), Tommy D (Andrew Garfield) and Ruth (Keira Knightley) who grow up together in a strange boarding school, Hailsham and a love triangle between the three starts to bloom and causes tensions between the three before they face their donations.The adaptation of Never Let Me Go sets out a very bleak society, where people are institutionalised into a system where they are breed to die. Even the prospect of a deferral would only offers people a respite from their fate, it did not stop what happens and nor do the character even attempt an escape because they accept what will happen to them. This is a more realistic view on this type of sci-fi scenario and this dyspotia shows a world that there is no need of controls to keep the clones. A complex world was created where people bury there heads in the sand, they know what is happening and pretend not to see it. The clones are dehumanised, they are not given surnames and they used in the system in a constant cycle of comfort. Normal people try to pretend the clones are none people but they are human, they feel, they love and it is a film that also has a theme of nature versus nurture.This film also have damning look at a dark version of the medical establishment, that they are willing to save people by taking the life of another and how they are willing to accept this system. This is an issue of medical ethics and general one where are what point are we willing to accept suffering of a group if it meant a better life for the majority. Should the pain of one person be tradable for the pain other another. There is lot of moral issues to consider with this film. I am sure that the Bristol Heart Scandal and other medical scandals were used as influences for the final third of the film.There is a great cast and director who worked on this film. Mulligan and Garfield are both very talented actors who were believable in their roles. You felt for both their situation and relationship in the backdrop of world. Knightley played a colder, harsher character but she does well in her role. The three child actors who played the younger versions of main characters were all very talented as well and played very complex roles of being children who have a very strange upbringing. One of the big themes is that the characters only have each others, they do not even know where they come from and have the realisation they are modelled on the undesirables of society and not knowing where they come from.Never Let Me Go uses a traditional three act, set in three different times of the character's lives. Mark Romanek brings a deliberately cold style of direction which was fitting to the sad situation that this film tells. He brings nice little touches throughout, from the period setting, the run down look of The Cottages, the old toys the children are given, the way ordinary people avoid contact with the clones and how the clones act when they are finally introduced into the real world. For a film that is rated 12A there is a surprising amount of nudity and sex.There are plenty of dyspotic fiction created in British in film and literature. The adaptation of Never Let Me Go is not the best but it is still very good film, telling a bleak story and a setting out a harsh world for a underclass. It needed the strength of the director, the writers and the actors to make this film work.
American Hustle is one the big frontrunners this awards season having won a number of critics awards and been nominated for seven Golden Globes.In 1978 Irving Rosenfeld (Christian Bale) and Sydney Prosser (Amy Adams) are con-artists running a banking fraud scheme when they are arrested by FBI agent Ritchie DiMasco (Bradley Cooper) who issues an ultimatum, either be arrested or help him get four arrests to clear their records. Soon the trio are working together with a scheme to prove political corruption through a senior New Jersey politician, Cermine Polito (Jeremy Renner) who wants redevelop Atlantic City. But the operation is complicated by a mutual dislike between Irving and Ritchie, Irving's developing friendship with Cermine, Irving's wrecking ball of a wife, Rosalyn (Jennifer Lawrence) and a love triangle between the trio.American Hustle is a excellently acted film as you would except from the cast of this talent. Bale goes through another physical transformation, giving himself a massive beer belly and Lawrence went to full gusto as a dizty, yet very manipulative woman who has Irving wrapped around her little finger. Adams also gave a surprisingly strong English accent for her character's false identity.David O. Russell is a director who has had great recent track record and actors want to work with him. Russell does inject energy and wit throughout the film. There is a Scorsese style to the film as we see multiple story lines, the use of multiple voiceovers and different viewpoints and even the brief flashbacks. Russell was able to bring us back to the 70s with the period details and he does want to replicate the look of a Scorsese film. American Hustle also has a great soundtrack.Throughout the film the questions of who is really in control of the situation and the constant manipulation and power plans between the characters as Ritchie and Irving trying to gain control of the situation and show they are the one who knows how to handle the operation whilst the women in between the men also look for their own self-determination and in Sydney's case her own survival.Renner does play a small supporting role in the film but gets to play an interesting character, a politician who wants to do the best for constituents and his state, sees redevelopment of Atlantic City as a way to give people jobs. But he comes up to a system where he cannot get support from the Federal government so has to turn to act illegally to do what he thinks it is best. It would have been interesting to have seen the film from his point of view, exploring political morality and reality. This investigation also raises the question about whether the operation was entrapment, making someone an easy target so they can get an arrest and result instead of someone who is actually bad.American Hustle is a very well made and acted film that does provide a crime film fix. But it is a good film, not a masterpiece that some critics are claiming it to be.
No one at the moment can match Pixar in the world of CGI animation at the moment. They made a lot of instant classics, with only one film being a flop (Cars). No one in Hollywood has even come close, and all studios should follow the Pixar philosophy of story comes first.The plot of Up tells the story of Carl Fredricksen (Edward Asner), an elderly man who's wife Ellie had died and about to face evident from his home. Instead of giving in and going to live in a retirement home, Carl decides to go on the adventure trip to South America that he and his wife were never about to do. He attaches hundreds of helium balloons to his house and floats to South America. But he has a stowaway, Russell (Jordan Nagai), an 8-year-old Wilderness Explorer. When the two reach South America, they come to a strange rainforest, with a large colourful bird which loves chocolate and Russell calls Kevin, and a Golden Retrevier called Dug (Bob Peterson) who has a collar that allows him to talk. With this jungle is a mad elderly explorer, Charles F. Muntz (Christopher Plummer), and Carl and Ellie's childhood hero. He created the collars to allow his pack of dogs to speak, and wants to capture the bird to show to the world.Pixar has a strong philosophy which obviously works. They have a old-fashion style but it works. They is a strong story and character development. The actors in this film were casted because they had the right voice, not cause they are a big name actor. This is a right move, especially because children don't care who voices the film, only if they are good. They is brilliant designs, direction, with excellent jokes, especially Russell and the dogs. There are sight gags, slapstick, but also some more adult-aimed jobs involving observational humour. There is also a good amount of action, some reminding me of Peter Jackson's version of King Kong. They is a emotion element, especially the montage at the beginning of the film. It makes you feel sad for Carl and Ellie. Pixar films also often trend to have a message about family relationships, like Finding Nemo and the Incredibles. This time the focus is on the love between Carl and Ellie, the surrogate relationship between Carl and Russell and Russell need for a fatherly figure. There is also the themes of unfulfilled dramas and hero worship.A perfectly enjoyable film for the whole family.
Danny Boyle has proved to be a director who can do almost any genre. He has done dark-comedy, crime, drugs, sci-fi and a children's film, and with 28 Days Later he shows he can do a horror/post-apocalyptic film with chilling consequences. This was also a big success for Fox Spotlight (the only good wing of Fox at the moment): with a $5 Million it made nearly $83 Million and was even more successful in the United States then it was in it's nation UK.28 Days after the release of the rage virus, Britain has become devastated. Main cities are deserted, the inflected, pretty much zombie like people, roam the streets. In London a bike courier Jim (Cillian Murphy) wakes up from a coma, and is shocked to find London is empty and has no knowledge of the event that has happened. He meets up with two other survivors, Selena (Naomie Harris) and Mark (Noah Huntley) who tell him everything that happens. After being chased by inflected, Jim and Selena go to a tower block and meet up with Frank (Brendan Gleeson) and his teenage daughter Hannah (Megan Burns). They hear an emergency broadcast from the army to go Manchester and the group quickly head-off. But it not just the inflected that the survivors have to worry about.Danny Boyle teamed up with Alex Garland, a successful novelist, to make a bleak, haunting film about the end of the world. They are strong scenes, like the deserted London, with only hints of what happens. They don't show the collapse of Britain, so leave it up to the audience's imagination. Boyle and Garland also focus on the most important factor in storytelling: character. There are interesting and believable, who have different views about live and the world. Selena is a pessimistic woman who has to be violence to survivor, Jim is a man who thrown into an extraordinary position, and the compelling father daughter relationship between Frank and Hannah. Major Henry West (Christopher Eccleston) and the army also show what man can do at it's worst. Danny Boyle shows his skill behind camera, using an effective hand-held camera, giving the film a more gritty, realistic felt, adding to the horror of the events. He shows he has a good sense for action, scares and more tender moments, allowing character interaction and revel who people really are. As a horror film it is very effective, even to people who don't like the genre. Boyle and Garland also add some moments of dark comedy to relax the film a tiny bit.They is also a good cast in the film. 28 Days Later brought Cillian Murphy and Naomie Harris to the public, and the two have stared in Batman Begins and the second and third Pirates films. But it was Brendan Gleeson and Christopher Eccleston who offered the experience the film needed, particularly Christopher Eccleston as a near mad army officer, like Colonel Kurtz in Apocalypse Now.Garland and Boyle were also influenced by George A. Romero's Living Dead trilogy, with the collapse of society in Dawn of the Dead, the siege environment of Dawn and Night of the Living Dead, and the relationship between the army and civilians was like in Day of the Dead.An excellent horror film.
The original Lord of the Rings is one of the best novel series and film series ever and it has been a long journey for the adaptation of The Hobbit. The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey is a welcome returned to Middle-Earth, even if it does not match the heights of the original trilogy.The Kingdom of Erebor is the greatest Dwarf kingdom in Middle-Earth. It was built on the wealth of the materials of The Lonely Mountain. But the Dwarfs of the kingdom are exiled after Smaug the Dragon overruns the Dwarf forces and the Elves refuse to help. The rightful king of the kingdom, Thorin Oakenshield (Richard Armitage) is determined to reclaim his birth right no matter the cost, and with 12 other dwarfs at his side, goes on a quest to recapture The Lonely Mountain.Gandalf the Grey (Ian McKellen) is a part of the dwarf company, wanting to ensure Smaug does not ally with other dark forces of Middle-Earth, and it is up to him to find the 14th member of the company. He decides to recruit the hobbit Bilbo Baggins (Martin Freeman) as a burglar because hobbits are light on their feet, even though Bilbo has never set foot out of The Shire and is too attached to his home comforts.Besides a fiery death, many outside factors affect the company's quest: a lack of support from other dwarfs, the political tensions between Thorin and the elves and the return of an old threat to Middle-Earth. The company is also being hunted by Thorin's great rival, Azog (Manu Bennett) "The Pale Orc," who looks very much like an Orc version of Kratos from the God of War series.The Hobbit is a much shorter novel then any of The Lord of the Rings novels; it clocks in at around 400 pages. To make it into a new trilogy, Peter Jackson and his team had to expand the story using expanded material from Tolkien stories and a little bit of artistic license. Elements of the story from the novel have been altered and embellished, such as the rivalry between Thorin and Azog, the Elves saving the Dwarfs before reaching Rivendell and the events involving Radagast the Brown (Sylvester McCoy) discovering a new evil in Mirkwood. Of course the previous trilogy also embellished the story, particularly The Two Towers. For fans of the original novel there are some fun references, from lines of dialogue and voice-over to the story of Bilbo's ancestor.Jackson employs a lighter tone for the prequel, using more comedy than previous films. Of course there was comedy in the original trilogy and the tone of The Hobbit was written as children's novel. When the dwarfs arrive at Bilbo's home it was tonally light and there are some genuinely funny moments, particularly involving the trolls and the dwarfs. Because of the nature of the story and the way it was told it is a slightly more family friendly film.The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey stills supplies plenty of fantasy action that you want and expect. Jackson delivers plenty top-notch special effects and creative action sequences when they are on screen, especially the fight within the Misty Mountains. As a fan, there were some nice little improvements, the biggest being the wargs which actually looked like wolves, not those silly looking hydras that they were in The Two Towers. Fans can also look forward to another fantastic score provided by Howard Shore, hitting every note perfectly.Jackson does assemble a great cast for the prequel. Of course old players like McKellen, Andy Serkis and co. do their parts justice and Armitage was perfect as Thorin. Armitage brought to life the bitter warrior longing for crown, a seriously minded fellow who did provide on the action stakes. Freeman was also a strong performer as the hobbit in question, the reluctant hero of the piece who is forced to come into his own.A problem with the film is some inconsistencies with the Dwarfs in terms of some being more prominent than others. Balin and Bofur were played by recognisable actors Ken Stott and James Nesbitt and their profile led to them having decent screen time. But other characters simply disappear off the screen, having no personality or characteristics and are just noticeable because of their appearance. This despite the profiles the studio created. But this is also a problem with the novel where some of the dwarfs felt like they did not need to be in the movie.The running time is 2 hours 50 minutes, which is long. A straight adaptation of The Hobbit would have easily have fit into a film lasting even less than that. Some scenes could have been trimmed and the scenes involving the wider context felt inconsequential at the moment. But The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey does not disgrace the legacy of the original trilogy and it is still one of the best medieval set fantasy films since Return of the King.Please visit www.entertainmentfuse.com
By the 1990s the Slasher genre was becoming stale, filled with clichés, countless sequels and very predictable and uninventive. Likely two men was able to play on this, Kevin Williamson and Wes Craven was able to play on this and made a really excellent take on Slashers.In the small town of Woodsboro two teenagers (Drew Barrymore and Kevin Patrick Walls) are shockingly murdered, a year after a woman was raped and murdered in the town centre. Very quickly the town is thrown into turmoil, with the media reporting on it, but the teens do not seem to be worried. The killer, known as Ghost-face soon targets another Sidney Prescott (Neve Campbell), the daughter of a victim, who luckily escapes. But Ghost-face is going to rest and goes on a mission to take down Sidney and anyone who stands in his way.Scream works because it is set in a world where horror movies do exist and teenagers know clichés. It is a self-aware horror film and has a lot of references to classic horror films like Halloween. Scream is forced to be inventive and Craven who is a master of the horror genre, so knew what he was doing with this film.Even if Scream was not made with a post-modern, self-aware horror with a comic edge, it still would have been an excellent horror film and one of the best slashers around. Craven and Williamson made sure their characters were fully developed, likable or at least normal. Sidney is a character with a lot of a baggage because of her mother's death and afraid to get close to people. She is a likable because is a friendly, smart, decent girl who is also tough. Sidney's friend Tatum (Rose McGowan) was tough no-nonsense girl who could have easily been the clichéd slut role, but that was avoided because she was a good friend and competent. Courteney Cox plays a unpleasant journalist who cares more ratings and book sales more then safety of people and emotional harm. She is not a journalist who is looking to report the truth or for the public interest. But she does come good at the end. The characters of Randy (Jamie Kennedy) and Stuart (Matthew Lillard) offer a lot of comic relief particular because of their knowledge of horror films. And David Arquettte is solid as a competent police officer who has a typical brother-sister relationship with Tatum.Cavern made sure Scream was exciting with a lot of action, violence and creative deaths. I particular like his technique of using the camera to follow the victims and move it around the house, adding excitement and intrigue. He knows how to build suspects and he does keep you guessing. I don't get scared watching horror films but you do care for Sidney and the idea of being home alone at night can make you more tense.I do have a criticism. They does not seem to be much of a reaction at the school hearing about two of their peers being brutally murdered. Most people seem to be very causal about it and saw it as something fun, not worried about a serial killer being on the loose or just saw it as an excuse for a party. Come on, if they was a murder in a small town there would be more sadden, grief and worry. Personally I would have focused on this collective reaction, but I am a more serious person and possibly would have a thriller/a social piece.Overall, Scream is certainly a worthy horror film, no manner what generation of horror fan you are.
Films about the Iraq War have often meant with critical and/or commercial failure. This is true to films like The Hurt Locker, Redacted, Stop-Loss, In the Valley of Elah, Battle for Haditha and Lions for Lambs (technically not an Iraq War film, but influenced by the conflict) have all met with this problem. However this did not deter Paul Greengrass, a famously left-wing director who has meant with box-office success with the Bourne series.Green Zone tells the story of post-war Iraq in 2003. Chief Warrant Officer Roy Miller (Matt Damon) leads a team of soldiers to secure potential sites where Weapons of Mass Destruction are. But something doesn't add up when the sites are empty: the military hierarchy don't like it when Miller starts to question the intelligence. Miller quickly makes an ally out of Martin Brown (Brendan Gleeson), a senior CIA who agrees with Miller, but also is started to be marginalised by Clark Poundstone (Greg Kinnear), a intelligence operative from the Pentagon. On a mission Miller gains intelligence of a meeting of former Iraqi military officials and leads a raid against them. But after capturing some of the officials a special forces team lead by Major Briggs (Jason Issacs), under the orders of Poundstone. Miller, with Brown and Wall Street Journal Journalist Lawrie Dayne (Amy Ryan) soon discover a wider conspiracy.Greengrass was obviously passionate about the subject and their was a lot anger behind this film. He wanted to make an action thriller that could appeal to a mass audience, but he did not want to sacrifice his beliefs. But their is a paradox with my views on Greengrass, I like his films but I don't like his direction or even him. There are a lot of problems with his direction: he believes in using shaky cam and quick editing, believing it would give the film a documentary feel. It doesn't, it leaves the audience feeling distance and this is a problem in many of his films. You don't see anything in the action scenes and the whole point of seeing an action film is for good action scenes. Some moments of his approach felt amateurish, using quick zooms, and looked like a bloke using a hand-held camera from an electronic store. If this film wasn't directed by a man with Greengrass' reputation then critics would have been more willing to judge. Greengrass is an overrated direct but makes good films, weird. Despite this film being an action thriller, this film is similar to JFK, a decent film but tells a poor theory. Greengrass has a very dogmatic view on the world. It is easy to be critical of the Iraq War, it was clear that the Bush regime was going to war with Iraq regardless and many of the arguments were faulted. But the film does take this one step to far when he suggests that the America government faked the intelligence: what was much more likely is the Bush's regime looked for intelligence that supported evidence of WMD, and ignore anything that countered it, like a PHD dissertation from 1993. Greengrass isn't too flattering of American intelligence and military, where they seem stupid and unwilling to ask questions, when the whole point of intelligence is to ask questions and find evidence. They are important issues like the American government lack of post-war planning, with mass looting, and America dismantling all Ba'athist organisations. When it comes to post-war Iraq thought they could rebuild the country, when they should have kept the army and civil service together, like in post-war Germany. It also tackles the issues that there was no good or popular leader to replace Saddam Hussian, their wasn't a Nelson Mandala or Ayatollah Khomeini and the Americans just wanted rush the transcension period. This was an area Green Zone did very well. But Green Zone also has a very simplistic view of the insurgency, with it only being former Ba'athists, when the real picture was much more complex, with Al-Qaida, Iraq nationalists, Arab nationalists, foreign anti-American fighters and segregation and ethnic groups. Greengrass could have shown more of this and looked at the theme that the war forced the Ba'athists and Al-Qaida together when the two used to hate each other (Osama Bin Liden hated Hussian).The acting in the film is decent. Greengrass and Matt Damon seem to work well together. Brendan Gleeson does very well with an American accent. Jason Isaacs has a dodgy moustache but does well in a minor role. But no one really stands out, so therefore nothing special. Greg Kinnear however villain was too simplistic and lacked depth and therefore lacked menace.A decent enough, especially if you like political thrillers and interested in the Iraq War, but it is faulted. I would give it a 7.4 out of 10, but I vote an 8 because I'm a nice guy.
Alfred Hitchcock is easily considered one of the finest directors ever to have lived: making films like The 39 Steps, The Lady Vanishes, Notorious, Vertigo, North by Northwest and Psycho. But some of his early British films were more hit and miss. Secret Agent was more of a miss.Set in 1916 in the middle First World War. A famous writer/army officer fakes his own death and becomes a spy for the British, Richard Ashenden (John Gielgud). Ashenden is assigned to go to Switzerland to stop a enemy spy who is preventing a British advance in the Middle Easy. His partners are The General/The Hairless Mexican (Peter Lorre) and Elsa Carrington (Madeleine Carroll), his fake wife on the mission. The team have little information about the spy they are hunting, even killing an innocent man, but need to use their investigative skills to stop him.They are some positives in this film, mainly in the direction. Hitchcock has some wonderful shots, showing his skill, like when the camera tracks from looking out of a window then through a telescope. They is a good action sequence at the end of the film, and because of the time, it forced Hitchcock to use long fix shots, making conversation shots longer, and actually better: more like a play. There is also a decent cast in the film, and they is no fault from the actor.The problem with the film is the storyline. They should have had a more of a complex plot, with a lot more investigation throughout the film. Some things seem to happen too easily and just fall into place. It doesn't have the thrills or the tension that is normally in a Hitchcock film. As a spy thriller is mediocre. The character of the General was also a nasty stereotype and was almost played for laughs. It was tough to watch and whilst Peter Lorre tried his best he could only give an over-the-top performance. If this film was made now that character would have been a lot more serious and darker.Overall, Hitchcock does show his talent, but this is not his best film.
The likes of Wes Anderson, Tim Burton and Gore Verbinski are all live action directors who have attempted making animated films. Joining this small crew is 300 director Zack Snyder, bringing his distinctive style to the world of animation when adapting Kathryn Lasky series of children's novels.In the Tyto Forest in Australia/Tasmania are two brothers, Soren (Jim Sturgess) and Kludd (Ryan Kwanten), who are just on the edge of fledging the nest. Soren is a dreamer who enjoys stories of the Guardians of Ga'Hooles, owls that act as guardians of trust, honour and justice, the owls who make the weak strong. But Kludd hates his brother idealism and often their bicker. When the two are kidnapped by a troop of Owls known as Pure Ones (basically racial ideologues) the two are separated, Kludd trained to be a soldier, Soren to be a slave to pick for metal. Soren and young elf owl, Gylfie (Emily Barclay) escape to find the Guardians, so their could free owlets and stop the Pure Ones' evil plans.On a technical level the photo-realistic animation was breathtakingly beautiful and coupled with Snyder's detailed, slo-mo style made for some fantastic action and flying scenes. The animation was extremely detailed and it really did look owls were actually going to war. The owls themselves were incredible expressive and with the top quality cast did follow the archetypes that were set out. Legend of the Guardians made for a fun, dark fantasy, filled with death, family betrayal and some creepy imagery when you seen the tranced owlets with their dead eyes.A problem with the film is the pacing is way too quick. I can understand the filmmakers wanted to make a tout, family film and the average length is around 90 minutes, but I feel if the story is good enough families would be entranced by a longer film. It felt like we were skipping and fast forwarding events, not getting to know the supporting characters. The material could have actually worked better as an animated series like Redwall or the Animals of Farthing Wood, but of course, the fantastic animation would have been lost. TV would have allowed the series more time to build up the world, get to know the character and allow our protagonists to learn the skills they needed.The story is a tat predictable, it has fantasy story elements we have seen before, younglings being turned slaves and mining for some sort material, this time metal, the sibling rivalry between two brothers manifesting into them joining different fractions, the Guardians being a white knight force and young characters forced onto a quest into the unknown. They are clear elements from the ideas of The Hero With Thousand Faces and The Writer's Journey as the adventure is forced on our heroes and meet the various archetypes that makes up this type of story and have to find safety. It also a very similar feel to Redwall, a TV series set in a medieval world where a troop of animals have to save their children and Watership Down where the animals have formed their own culture and that there was a faction of rabbits enslaving other rabbits.Whilst the drama and the dark tone was fine, the comic relief was out of place at times a little annoying, like the two dumb henchowls and David Wenham's hyperactive Digger, but I admit Anthony LaPaglia as a strong Great Grey Owl had some fun lines.This is more of a personal prefer but I did not like the film being set in Australia because most of the owls species are from the Northern Hemisphere and South America and the I would have preferred the setting to be a ubiquitous North America or Europe.Legend of the Guardians is a fun fantasy film for families with slightly older children, filled with action and great flying sequences. If you are a fan of Snyder's will enjoy it: it is certainly much better then Sucker Punch.
Cinema from New Zealand can be a very mixed bag, providing us as the location for blockbusters like Lord of the Rings and the Narnia series, making excellent dramas like Once Were Warriors to more subpar affairs in the form of Black Sheep. The 2002 film Whale Rider turned out to be a surprise hit internationally, earning high critical praise from the likes of Roger Ebert and its young star was the youngest person ever to be nominated for a Best Actress Oscar.Paikea Apirana (Keisha Castle-Hughes) is a young Maori girl living on the East Coast of New Zealand. Her mum and twin brother die during child birth and her father (Cliff Curtis) is an absentee father. Her grandfather, Koro (Rawiri Paratene) is the chief of her tribe, but the line of succession can to a first born son. Despite her love for her grandfather, he believes his tribe's downturn started when she was born. Koro decides to teach the young first born boys the ways, traditions and history of the tribe so he find a new chief, but prevents Paikea from learning as well, so has to prove herself worthy.Whale Rider is a coming of age story, a story of the two generations and a study of Maori culture. This is a well handled film, looking at the themes thought the eyes of a young girl, someone who is innocent and does not quiet understand the world but still a proactive in her story. This is a look at a fantasising culture but also critical of more old fashioned elements of the tribe leader and his sexism. Paikea is a character that is constantly trying to prove herself to her grandfather despite his refusal to accept her in his way of life.Director Niki Caro gives Whale Rider a dream like quality with the way it was shoot the music, adding a spiritual and surreal experience. This is particularly the case the way whales are shoot made more of a mystical light and always something in the distance. The birth scene in the at beginning also had a mystic feel with the blurry filters, the camera movements and where the camera was place and Paikea's voice-over. This was a more mystical film because of the Maori's connection to their ancestors, history, culture and with nature.There are some fine performance throughout the film. There is good interplay between Castle-Hughes, Paratene and Paikea's grandmother (Vicky Haughton) and Castle-Hughes' performance as Paikea doing a speech was heartbreaking. All the characters are well drawn and complex, there are relatable issues that most people can understand. There is a lot to dig into this film, from a mystic side, to cultural to more general and psychological elements.I expect that some elements of the novel were cut for the film, for the most part Whale Rider is a very interesting modern fable.
On paper The Lovely Bones should have everything going for it: it was based on a popular book that was critically received, directed by one of the most respected men in the business, has a great cast and tackles a number of themes, child murder, grief and the after live. Dreamworks was so confidence of this they pushed back it's release date so it could compete in the awards season. Sadly did this not work out for them.The Lovely Bones tells the story of Susie Salmon (Saoirse Ronan), a 14-year-old who lives a typical 1970s suburb of Pennsylvania. She lives with her loving family, her parents Jack and Abigail (Mark Wahlberg and Rachel Weisz), younger sister Lindsay (Rose McIver) and younger brother Buckley (Christian Thomas Ashdale). Susie aspires to a photographer, started to fall for Ray Singh (Reece Ritchie). But on 6th December 1973 she was murdered by her neighbour George Harvey (Stanley Tucci). When Susie dies she is stuck in a limbo, the Inbetween, unable to accept going to Heaven. From the Inbetween she watches her family as it starts to fall apart because of the grief and seeing her murder avoiding being a suspect. She starts trying to break through, trying to comfort her family and help lead them to her murderer.If you have ever read The Lovely Bones you will see that it was particularly an unfilmable novel, mixing gritty-real life subject matter with wide metaphysical issues. This film was originally attached to Lynn Ramsay, a British director famous for doing low-budget films before going to Peter Jackson. Jackson should be a safe pair of hands, he adapted the Lord of the Rings trilogy, an ultra-detailed epic, and handled a film with similar martial, Heavenly Creatures (a film I really need to see). For the most part Jackson shows his skill, showing how the Salmon family coping with the initial grief of losing Susie and his love for special effects. He shows a good mix of real-life events mixed with heaven. But this is not Peter Jackson at his best. He makes some errors which he really shouldn't have had. He took out a lot of the darkness that the film needed. It was dealing with serious subject matter, and the original script had darker moments, like when Susie first realises she had been killed she is in Mr. Harvey's bathroom and she picks up his razor blaze to kill him. In the novel Susie was raped and murdered, and Jackson should have shown more: I'm not suggesting that an film-maker should show a child/young teen being raped, that is cinematic suicide, but the camera could have been their for the fatal blow. In novel, the family dog also found Susie's elbow, the only part of her body that was ever found. Jackson played it too safe and he should have gone for a 15/R rating. Jackson misjudges the tone, making the film a little too light, and Susan Sarandon's character Grandma Lynn was really no in tone, having her as slapstick comedy folly. Jackson also misses out some keys scenes, that were even in the original script, like Abigail's affair with Len Fenerman (Michael Imperioli), the investigating officer. The film does skip large portions of times as well, which affects the film. But all the story elements are fairly well done, and makes for compelling viewing. I hope their is a Director's Cut to expand it.The film's winning feature is the cast. Saoirse Ronan was terrific as Susie Salmon and she should be winning a Oscar, but she hasn't even been nominated. You can really feel for her. Stanley Tucci was also excellent as the unsuspecting killer, and has been nominated: but Christoph Waltz would properly win. Mark Wahlberg should now be on the road to recovery after his year of disaster in 2008. He was very good as a grieving father. Rachel Weisz too was very good, and showed a different type of grief. Besides Grandma Lynn being very misjudged as a comic character Susan Sarandon was still good a chain smoking, heavy drinking grandmother. The editor, Jabez Olssen, should have also been nominated for an Oscar.A problem that this film was always going to face was it's depiction of heaven. Jackson tried to play it safe, by having Susie in limbo and not proper heaven. In the novel Susie went straight to heaven, even having a counsellor to help her adjust. I suspect Jackson's move was to prevent upsetting Christians in America, but I say sod that because it was also meant to be a personal heaven. In the novel Susie's heaven was more understated, it was physically a high school where she lives a teenage fantasy and had other people in it. Jackson ended up making Susie's heaven too grand, like Susie's and Holly's fashion parade on a giant record player. But Heaven is never easy to depicts because everyone has a different view of a perfect world, whilst everyone does have the same primal fears like pain, torture and fire which makes depicting Hell a low easier.Overall, a decent attempt, about 7.5 out of 10, but The Lovely Bones really needed to be darker. I think a director like Darren Aronofsky or Danny Boyle may have been better suited.
Godzilla is back and he is set to smack down with the great monsters and the big blockbusters 2014 has to offer. Godzilla (2014) washes out the bad taste of Roland Emmerich's very dumb effort as this new version pays respect and homage to the great Japanese series.In the Pacific Ocean since 1954 a multi-national organisation has been hunting a mysterious creature, using nuclear weapons to kill it. In 1999 a mining company make a discovery and awaken a beast which causes a nuclear meltdown in Janjira, Japan. Flash-forward to the present day Ford Brody (Aaron Taylor-Johnson) is an explosives expert for the American military and is called to Japan when his father Joe (Bryan Cranston) is arrested for exploring the quarantine zone, planning to expose the cover-up of the disaster. But this could lead to humanity facing its greatest threat.Monsters' Gareth Edwards was hired to direct this reboot of the series and it is clear his experience of that film was influential on Godzilla. His sense of world building is shown, particularly the destruction and abandonment of Janjira, the chaos that was caused and large scenes such as a tomb for a mysterious creature. Even small things like the use of TV news in the background as it highlights events internationally. Monsters was a film with impressive special effects for its budget of $500,000 and with Godzilla he has $160 Million: a budget he effectively uses to bring Godzilla to life and showing a global scale. His version of Godzilla plays out a little like what a Monsters prequel could have been.Edwards and his writing team show that they have a great knowledge and respect for the franchise, knowing what works in the series whilst taking the serious approach and accepts the environmental themes of the original 1954 film. As a monster film you get the fun massive creatures trying to beat the hell out of each other and keeping the human drama as civilians look to survive and the military try and fight creatures that treat humans as nothing more than bugs. Fans of the series will notice little Easter Eggs and homage's.At times Godzilla plays like a classic disaster film as the monsters are unstoppable force of nature as ordinary people watch on and the military fight helplessly against destructive creatures. The human drama is just as important as the monsters as they sort out family dramas and fight for survival. Yet at times this element comes off as melodramatic and heavy-handed, despite the actors' best efforts. Godzilla is very much a film about the build-up to the fight between the monsters, allowing us to appreciate the battle, but the drawback is the waiting as we only get glimpses. Even when the monsters are fighting, the military are still in play.Edwards makes a visually impressive film with solid action sequences, particularly at the end and he keeps a brisk pace constantly. The idea of what the monsters feed on makes them an even more potent threat. But other ideas are on the derivative, being used in many other sci-fi films. Examples include the military diving into San Francisco being similar to the wingsuit jump in Transformers: Dark of the Moon and the preventing of monsters having offspring is the same plot point from 1998 version of Godzilla.Godzilla assumes a great cast of actors, Taylor-Johnson, Cranston, Elizabeth Olsen, Ken Watanabe, Sally Hawkins and David Strathaim from The Bourne Ultimatum. This would be a cast that any production would be happy to have. Cranston and Watanabe are the guys whose performance is the best and give the most dialogue porn. But Olsen does not get to show off her obvious talents as Ford's wife. Fun fact, this year Taylor-Johnson and Olsen are husband and wife, next year they will be twins in The Avengers: Age of Ultron.The excellent composer Alexandre Desplat supplies a truly unique sounding score, a mostly bombastic piece of music that plays for a large portion of the film. With The Grand Budapest Hotel, Desplat has had a very good year.The 2014 version is respectful to its source material and offers a lot of big monster fun as more major cities get destroyed. It's great to hear that Godzilla roar once again.Please visit www.rocknreelreviews.com
For a long time Matthew McConaughey career was the butt of many jokes and he was seen as a laughing stock. But in 2011 his career started to have a massive upswing when he starred in The Lincoln Lawyer and his projects have been getting better ever since.Based on a novel by Michael Connery McConaughey stars as Mickey Haller, a defence lawyer who operates around L.A. and is a master of dealing and has gift of the gaff. He is given an opportunity to defend a rich playboy, Louis Roulet (Ryan Phillippe) accused of beating up a woman and claims he is innocent. But as Mickey investigates the case with P.I. Frank Levin (William H. Macy) he discovers that they may have lead to an innocent he represented going to prison.The Lincoln Lawyer is seems typical legal/investigation style film, a little like John Grisham style story in a more gritty, urban setting. Screen writing John Romano does a fine job, adapting what seems to be a novel with lots of subplots and was able to wrap it all together. The story was able to handled very well by Romano and director Brad Furman as the story turns from whether his client is guilty or not to a story about stopping someone who is evil but with his hands tied behind his back. It made of a compelling courtroom and investigative film, even if it does a little too much legal jargon. But the film is easy to follow for the most part.The Lincoln Lawyer has a great cast, McConaughey, Marisa Tomei, John Leguizamo, Macy, Michael Peña and fanboy favourite Bryan Cranston. McConaughey as he plays a anti-hero and is not the typical hunky hero he has played. Mickey is a sleazy guy and comes across a snake oil salesman as he deals and bents the rules, yet grows into someone more likable as the film progresses. Tomei is an actor I like and Leguizamo was solid. Cranston does not have much time to make an impression and many of the big name actors were in fairly small roles. Peña was sadly disappointing in his role and Phillippe is an actor I find it hard to warm to; yet he was decent enough.Furman does inject some style when directing particularly in the beginning when Louis tells his story and the camera pans to see the flashback. But the cinematography was terrible, coming from Lukas Ettlin who also filmed Battle Los Angeles, uses too much shaky cam when he should have used a tripod or steady cam and he used sudden zooms that made the film look amateurish.The Lincoln Lawyer is a solid legal thriller that will please the fans of the genre.
Barrow, Alaska is one of the most northerly town in America, and in the middle of winter the town suffers from Polar Night, a month of darkness. Often most people leave the town and only a few diehards stay for the period. They is no way of leaving the town. On the last day of daylight the local sheriff Eben Oleson (Josh Hartnett) has to investigate some unusual crimes, including stolen mobile phones being burned and all the town sledge dogs being killed. Everything becomes clear when a group of vampires led by Marlowe (Danny Huston) and use the darkness as a chance for a feeding frenzy. A group of surviving, including Eben, his younger brother Jake (Mark Rendall) and estranged wife Stella (Melissa George) have to hide and survive the hunting vampires.The premise for the film is good for a vampire film, a group of sadistic vampire isolate a small town and because of the polar night can do whatever their want. There are interesting ideas, like the survivors hiding like Anne Frank and her family, and the vampires avoid turning people by cutting off their heads. This are tough vampires with speed and strength and their own weakness is sunlight. The only other way to kill a vampire is cutting off their heads. But all these themes are no enough to save the film. Their is a weak script, with poor dialogue, lacking wit or realism. There is little character development, and many elements felt forced: like Eben's asthma and his relationship with Stella. People do also act stupid in a unrealistic fashion.The other main problem is the cast. Only Danny Huston comes off as a interesting character, as a sadistic vampire willing to use violence and basically a tough mother. But the rest are just a bunch of bland actors. Josh Hartnett is a really boring actor and seems too young to be a sheriff and too much of a pretty boy for this type of role. The only role he has been good in was as The Man in Sin City. Ben Foster is another boring actor in the film and lacked the skill generally to be an actor. Melissa George is easy on the eye and generally a better actor to most of the cast, but she too was miscasted and unbelievable as a Fire Marshall for the area. The casting was poor for the film.David Slade in my opinion is a fairly overrated director. His first film Hard Candy was overrated, with a lot of music video style camera tricks, and in 30 Days of Night there is no special shots, except for an aerial shot of the vampires attacking the towns people.There is a good level of gore to keep die-hard horror fans happy, but for the rest of us you don't need to knock yourself out for this film.
The King of Comedy reunites Martin Scorsese and Robert De Niro in a genre they were not use to: dark comedy. This is particularly true of Scorsese who has been, and still is famous for more gritty, hardhitting films like Taxi Driver, Mean Streets and Raging Bull. The dynamic duo take the Travis Bickle from Taxi Driver and transplant him into this. It almost like what Stanley Kubrick did with Dr. Strangelove, taking a serious subject and turn it into a dark comedy.Rupert Pupkin (Robert De Niro) is a struggling stand-up comedy in New York, and idealises a popular talk show host Jerry Langford (Jerry Lewis). One night after Langford's show the host is attacked by a stalker and Pupkin helps him. This gives him the opportunity to talk about his act, and Langford says he could arrange a meeting with his secretary. Rupert starts to pester Langford's show staff, and their try to give him the brush-off, even listening to his tape of material and give him some advice. Pupkin lives him a fantasy, daydreaming that Langford would love his act and he would become a famous comedian. After Langford threatens to call the police to Pupkin, the comedian takes extreme action. He kidnaps his icon and demands he get to go on the show to perform his routine.It is obvious that Pupkin is an obsessive man, who has boundary issues. He is a daydreamer, which there is nothing wrong with that, but he takes it to the next level, becoming a stalker and doesn't see when people are telling him to go away. He is a good example of a modern celebrity stalker. Pupkin is a man who wants to be famous, but wants to take a shortcut, not earning his fame. He takes the wrong way to fulfill his American Dream. Both Robert De Niro and Jerry Lewis offer excellent performances. De Niro as Pupkin has some cringe worthy moments.Martin Scorsese shows once again why he is one of best directors ever. He gets the pacing just right, perfectly casts the film, shows the darker, but also a lighter side of human beings and make New York and show business into a character themselves. He is able to combine a real world, like how the studio would react to Pupkin, with Pupkin's fantasy world. Few directors can do that. Scorsese also has such a flair for scenes and shots. Scenes of particular note are when Pupkin fantasizes having lunch with Langford, where Langford is in a restaurant whilst Pupkin is in his bedroom. The other is a long continuous when Pupkin is kicked out of the production office: I love those shot generally.However the film should have been funny. There could have been more jokes and Scorsese was a little unsure with comedy. But even a weak Scorsese is still better then most films that are released.An entertaining film.
I'm a big fan of comic books and comic book conversation when done right. Spiderman is on of the best comic best to be made and is an important cultural figure and important to Marvel Comics. The first and the third films were both good, the first was an introduction and the third really underused Venom. Spiderman 2, like X-Men 2 is best in the film franchise.Spiderman is meant to be more family friendly and a little serious then say the X-Men films and Batman Begins, but is still very fun and avoids going down the camp or comic root which is easy to do.Spiderman 2 takes place after the first film and the credits give you a brief run down of what happened. Peter Parker (Tobey Maguire) is struggling in his life, he had rejected the love of his life, Mary-Jane Watson (Kirsten Durst), his friendship with Harry Osborn (James Franco) is strained because he believed Spiderman killed his father and Peter wouldn't tell him anything. Peter is also struggling at university, unable to keep a hold of a double-life, suffering money troubles and had just been sacked as a pizza boy. Harry offered him the chance to meet with Dr. Otto Octavius (Alfred Molina) which Peter takes up. However during a demonstration of his invention his gets killed and the metal arms that he used to control the invention before fused with his body. From then on he became Dr. Octopus and sets out to make money so he could re-build the machine. At the same time Peter's relationship with Mary-Jane is getting worse, he missed the play she was starting in and then he finds out she became engaged with John Jameson, J. Jonah Jameson's son. However, as the film continues Mary-Jane doubts Peter's earlier claims that he wasn't in love with her and starts to develop feelings herself. Peter also starts loosing his powers and he starts to doubt whether to be Spiderman anymore. This was confirmed when he spoke with a doctor and then with his Uncle Ben in a dream. However, without Spiderman crime starts to raise in New York and Peter relies that he can't hide from his destiny.The reason why this film is so good was because of Sam Raimi's director. He focus' on the psychology of Peter/Spiderman and looks at relationships with many characters. He shows how a double life could take its toll on a person. There are also issues of sacrifice that Peter had to face and the guilt he suffered from his Uncle Ben being murdered. The CGI and the special effect had improvement from the film and they are stunning. There are great sequence in the movie such as Spiderman vs. Doc Ock on the church and the fight on the subway train. Raimi also has good casting instincts. Maguire is good at playing Peter as a bit of a geek and the films have made him an A-Lister. The other opinion was Jack Gyllenhaal and he possibly would have played Peter as a man who was a little more cooler and less of a social outcast. Durst and Franco had also improved as actors from the first film and you care for them more, especially Durst and I personally think she looks betters as a red-head then blonde. Molina is good as Doc Ock and shows that Raimi is able to get a stage actor like him to be in an action film like this. There are also regular like Rosemary Harris as Aunt May who is a good casting choice and the best of all was J.K. Simmons as J. Jonah Jameson, playing the character just right and looks like him as well and if you ever seen Simmons in the programme Oz then you will see how good an actor he is because it will special you when you find out what character he plays. Raimi also got the mix of fantasy and reality just right and doesn't go silly with it like some versions of Spiderman have done.
Seeing that a lot of American comedy nowadays are just cheap goss out comedy, rom-coms or aim for cheap jokes, it is refreshing to see a really quirky comedy with real actors and a fun script.Loosely based on the book by British journalist Jon Ronson, the Men Who Stare at Goats tells the story of the American Army's secret project the New Earth Army. Led by Bill Django (Jeff Bridges) The New Earth Army tries to use New Age techniques to create psychic soldiers for the military, with the aim to use their powers for non-lethal reasons, such as finding lost people. Whilst in Kuwait Michigan based journalist Bob Wilton (Ewan McGregor) meets Lyn Cassady (George Clooney), the best of the psychic soldiers (or Jedi Knights as his likes to call them). Bob looking for adventure joins Lyn on a mission into Iraq during the middle of the American invasion.This film has a quick wit, having moments of satire and dark comedy. It personally reminded me of Dr. Strangelove, with a little Full Metal Jacket and Burn After Reading in the mix. They is a satire of elements of the war such as the use of private contractors in Iraq, to the make-up of the American military. They are also some serious topics such as the use of psychological warfare and torture. There are excellent jokes, gags and wit throughout the film. There are smart comments to visual gags. This was a cleverly written script by Peter Straughan and well directed by Grant Heslov.They is a great cast in the film, George Clooney, Kevin Spacey, Jeff Bridges, Ewan McGregor and Stephen Lang. They are all funny, even Kevin Spacey and Ewan McGregor whom roles are more serious then the others. Jeff Bridges was brilliant, playing a role similar to The Big Lebowski character the dude. George Clooney enjoy these quirky roles and entering in this role. Kevin Spacey plays a slimy villain again, but he is so good at it. Even Stephen Lang was funny in the film.Well worth watching.
John Grisham to most people is a love him or hate him type of author, where he has either has lovers or haters of his work. I personal don't mind him, I have read The Firm and thought it was pretty good. Grisham work has ended up being made into a number of films, such as The Firm, The Pelican Brief, Rainmaker and the Runaway Jury, all looking at the American Legal system. A Time to Kill is one of his favourite novels, and made had an active role in the adaptation's production.Set in rural Mississippi, a 10-year-old girl is brutally raped by two racists when she was walking home. It is a violence crime that unites the community and the two men are quickly arrested. The men confess to their crime, but the girl's father, Carl Lee Hailey (Samuel L. Jackson), fears that they would be acquitted. He takes the law in his own hand and kills the two men, and himself gets arrested. A local young lawyer Jake Brigance (Matthew McConaughey) takes the cast despite having limited resources because he felt he would have done the same it had happened to his young daughter. There is public sympathy for the case, especially in the black community and Jake even gains the help of Ellen Roark (Sandra Bullock), a intelligent law student. But Jake's life and his family is put in danger when the Ku Klux Khan role into town, led by the brother of one of the rapists (Kiefer Sutherland). They use threats and violence against Jake, his family and employees to stop him in the case. Jake also has to tackle the talented, but slimy DA Rufus Buckley (Kevin Spacey) who uses all his influence to get his way.This is clearly a bleak story, and has potential to look at a number of themes, from American law to the still embedded feelings of racism in the American Deep South. The film tries to show all this having a number of sub-plots and looks at a number of characters. They are ideas of racism in the jury, in the police, but also the police having sympathy for the father. I sure a lot of people would feel the same if it happened to a close friend or family member. They is good cast in the film. Samuel L. Jackson was going through his mini-phase of being a militant black man, and was in good form. Kevin Spacey was delightfully slimy, which he is good at, and underused. Kiefer Sutherland offered a similar performance to what he did in another legal thriller, A Few Good Men. Sandra Bullock was okay, but nothing special. Matthew McConaughey too was okay, but I doubt his abilities as a leading man. At times when he was on screen with Sandra Bullock it was a contest on who could offer the most wooden performance.This is also one of Joel Schumacher better films, and shows he can do dark, serious films, and not campy messes like he did with his Batman films. There is violence, some good set pieces and a good handle behind the camera: but he was a workman like director with this film. But he and the writer Akiva Goldsman made the film too long with a bit too much fat: they should have cut around 10 minutes to give the audience a more tort experience.Akiva Goldsman did offer some weak moments of dialogue, and a bit too much melodrama. He is in advantageous with this film, and sticks to the standard legal thriller formation, lawyer gets cast, lawyer has trouble with cast and thinks he is about to lost, lawyer is offered a small ray of hope. That's what happens in most American legal thrillers and the legal thriller is not a genre with has caught on in other nation's cinema.Despite they are claims of liberalism throughout the film, it also offers a very right-wing message, accepting vigilantism, that it is okay to take the law into your own hands.With a little editing, re-writes and a strong indie mentality this could have been an really brilliant, but ends up being standard Hollywood pulp.
Trainspotting is a Great British drugs film. It is story about a group of friends, some addicted to heroin, some are not and focuses mainly on Renton (Ewan MacGregor). It shows them dealing with a number of issues, including obviously drug use and withdrawal, cot-death, teenage sexual behaver, Scottish working-class life, crime and the drugs trade.In the film a lot goes on. Renton goes through phases of being addicted and withdrawal of heroin. The characters are unable to say away from the pull of heroin. The characters in the film also act like normal men, they go out drinking and clubbing, playing football and having sex. However throughout the film the character lives start to fall apart, including prison, death and sickness. They end up going into a life of organised crime.To me Trainspotting is one of the Best British films ever made. Some people have criticised the film to be glamouring drug-use, but if you see the film it does anything but. It tackles a lot of issues and isn't afraid going head-on. The film is well-written, and is based on a novel by Irvine Walsh. I admit I haven't read it but I know some of the easter-eggs like the Hiberan poster in the background. This is Danny Boyle's best film as a director and shows his talent to the full. The acting is also top-notch and many of the actors have become successful, especially Ewan MacGregor, Kelly Macdonald and Robert Carlyle. The film also have a very good soundtrack, with songs like Lust for Life by Iggy Pop, Born Slippy by Underworld and the drugs song Perfect Day.Trainspotting is an excellent film. If you like this film then you will like Requiem for a Dream and vice versa.
The Great Raid is a very unfocused war film, hoping to cash in on the critical success of other war films like Saving Private Ryan and commercial success of Pearl Harbor. It is a war film that tries to have it's cake and eat it.During the dying days of World War II the American is started to advance through the Philippines. The Japanese are having to retreat, they start to kill prisoners of war, instead of releasing them. A new American Battalion had been formed, the Sixth Rangers. There are meant to be elite infantry troops. They are led by Lt. Col. Henry Mucci (Benjamin Bratt) and a very capable young officer Capt. Robert Prince (James Franco). They are giving the mission to liberate American PoWs from Cabanatuan. It is an opportunity for the Rangers to prove themselves. At Cabanatuan the PoW are led by Major Gibson (Joseph Fiennes), a survive of the Japanese invasion and the Bataan Death March. His story shows how the Japanese were becoming more brutal to the PoWs. It become harder to bribe guards and smuggle in supplies. The Japanese bring in the Kempeitai (Military Police) to run the camp, with the aim to kill the troops. They use fear to ensure that the PoWs done try and escape. The third story is about Margaret Utinsky (Connie Nielsen), an American Nurse who works in Malina. She works with the Filippo resistance, smuggling in medical supplies to American PoWs. The Japanese start to suspect she is working against them.There are worst films then The Great Raid, but it does have a lot of problems. It basically is too ambitious for its own good and trying to tell too many story at once. It became too distracting and leaves the audience unsure and who there are meant to focus on. It's trying to tell a war story, a prisoner of war story and a resistance story. It bogs the film down, leaving it to be a little boring. A more sensible route would have been shown a film about the build up and training of the Rangers, whilst showing some scenes of the Prisoner of War camp and then show the troops fighting to get to the camp. The story of resistance could have been told in it's own film. It felt like the film was trying to be The Bridge Over the River Kwai, but obviously not as successful. The film should have been the raid. I also felt that the voice-over by James Franco distracting and gives the audience too much information. The beginning was too similar to the beginning of A Bridge too Far; text at the beginning would have been better.There are some saving graces to the film. There are decent performances, Joseph Fiennes is normally good and put a lot of effort. James Franco was a okay, and so were many of the other performers. The action and war seems are also very good and the final third of the film is pretty exciting. There should have been more war scenes, considering it is a war film.This film could have been so much more. I personally recommend The Bridge Over the River Kwai, or if you want a film about resistance watch Black Book or Lust, Caution.
I went into Star Trek IV: The Voyage Home with anxiety, thinking this was going to be a Trek film I would not like due to the silly sounding story and the use of a clash of culture humour. But I ended up enjoying this sequel, finding it to be a lighted-heart adventure that had some well written comedy and most of the crew get a moment to shine, except Sulu who does not have much to do. Shatner is at his best in the more comic situation and since Spock's resurrection he has to rediscover his human side and develop his emotions. The special effects are strong for the time, some of the best of the original film series, even allowing us to see more unique looking alien races . Leonard Nimoy keeps a fast pace and makes sure that there isn't any fat. But Nimoy does lay it one thick with the environmentalist/conservationist message, even though it is a message I agree with.Star Trek IV: The Voyage Home is a film that over comes its silly plot and set up and plays to the strengths of the original series.
The Seventh Seal is considered on of the best Swedish film ever, and Ingmar Bergman is certainly the most famous filmmaker out of that nation. The Seventh Seal is easily a great example of art-house film making done right.The Seventh Seal take place in Medieval period in Sweden with the Black Death is sweeping the land. Antonius Block (Max von Sydow) has returned from the Crusades and a black clocked man who says he is Death (Bengt Ekerot) says he comes for him. Antonius challenges Death to a game of chess, saying if he resists then lives and if he wins he is free. Antonius is allowed to travel and he goes with strong, clever, but less philosophical squire Jöns (Gunnar Björnstrand). On the way Antonius and Jöns form a entourage, including a husband and wife acting team Jof (Nils Poppe) and Mia (Bibi Andersson), and their one-year-old son Mikael, a deaf girl (Gunnel Lindblom) that Jöns saves and a blacksmith Plog (Åke Fridell) whom wife just left him. As the game continues Death watches and tries to trick Antonius, and he takes an interest in the young family. Antonius needs to save the family so their could live their lives.This is a very thematic film, with a focus on the ideas of loss of faith, debates whether God exist and of course, the continuing threat of death. They is excellent dialogue in throughout the film, some of actually a little witty. It also looks at the issues with intelligence and in detail, but in a accessible manner as well. Bergman takes great care with the imaginary in the film. He uses the art of Albertus Pictor who was influenced by the aftermath of the Black Death: his painting often focused on death. He also took great care with his scenes, often using long continuous shots, allowing them to evolve naturally. Bergman also picks the 14th Century as his setting. This is not pretending to be historically accurate film like Braveheart was making itself out to be. But it adds to then scenes of death affecting the world and how pessimistic people were. It also had interesting sub-plots and ideas like Flagellants going to the village. Bergman's direction was excellent through out the film, and shows that he was a real artist.The acting is excellent. This was on of Max von Sydow's first big roles, and he shows the disillusionment in this character. Gunnar Björnstrand was very good as strong, loyal character who didn't think about the grander scheme of live. He just continues with live and had a decent heart, but is willing to use violence. Bengt Ekerot had a good sense of menace as Death.A excellent, tort film that is a must see for film fans.
Horror films back in the 70s are a cut above modern horror films, such as Dawn of the Dead and The Wicker Man. The Exorcist is considered one of the best in the genre and is horror expert Mark Kermode's favourite film. It is also a film that is apart of the tread of demonic children horror, which also created The Omen, another good horror film.Set in Georgetown in Washington DC, the film tells the story of Chris MacNeil (Ellen Burstyn), a successful film actress whom just finished her latest film set in the city. She lives in a house with her 12-year-old Regan (Linda Blair), an innocent, loving girl who had been suffering from health and emotional problems. It becomes clear that something very wrong with Regan, doing seemingly important physical feats, swearing and insulting everyone, screaming and speaking in a horrible voice. She claims to be possessed by the Devil and Chris takes her to see doctors and psychiatrists. After finding nothing wrong with her Chris turns to the Catholic Church out of desperation. She goes to Father Damien Karras (Jason Miller), a priest and a trained psychiatrist who himself is suffering a crisis of faith.Like any good horror film, or film in general, there is a compelling story and engaging characters. There is a lot of backstory to the film, it's what you expert from a film with these sort of religious themes, and shows many conflicting emotions in the characters. You don't want Regan to suffer because she is a good and scared girl and Chris is a caring mother pushed to breaking point. It also show what lengths a mother would go to help her child. The best horror films often have a theme. There are religious themes about the existence of God, and the American Health Service; but to me, the biggest horror is of a parent who is powerless to help their children. It is a family metaphor. The film has a skilled director, William Friedkin, who won an Oscar for the French Connection, who keeps the film grounded, and focuses on the characters. There is excellent, downbeat cinematography, some wonderful shots, a great use of sound and fine, suitable music. There are some truly horrible scenes, the big one for me is when the possessed Regan is masturbate violently with a crucifix: it is a truly shocking scene. There is an excellent cast, Ellen Burstyn is a great actress and offers a powerful performance. Linda Blair was a excellent child performer in what must have been an tough role for any actress. Jason Miller too was good in his role.William Peter Blatty wrote the screenplay, based on his own novel, and show he has talent as a writer. He follows a standard three act structure but is done so well and a good example for potential writers.A masterclass in horror cinema.
This was the first Coen brother's film and I saw and I thought it was great. The Big Lebowski is surreal dark comedy about Jeff 'the Dude' Lebowski (Jeff Bridges) becoming mixed up with German gangsters, the kidnapping of an ex-porn star throne wife of the rich Jeff 'the Big' Lebowski and Jeff Lebowski's daughter, a modern artist. The Dude gets mixed up with these events when gangsters break into his apartment and demands money from him until they realised they got the wrong Lebowski. The Dude friend, Walter (John Goodman), convicts him to go to the Big Lebowski home and demand compensation from him. It was after this visit when the Dude and Walter gets mixed up with the kidnap plot. The Big Lebowski asks the Dude to drop the ransom money off for him and thereby get Bunny Lebowski (Tara Reid) back. However Walter came with him on the mission and steals the ransom money. It was from there that things started to go worst and worst.The Big Lebowski is an excellent film which is extreme funny. It has some get characters, especially the Dude as a lazy ageing hippie and Walter as a mad militaristic nut case (he was meant to be based on John Milius). The film also uses many types of humour, from dark humour which the Coen brothers do really well, psychical and little slapstick, intelligent involving some of the jokes used, surreal using dream sequences and a little catchphrase based with the classic 'shut the f**k up Donny!'The Big Lebowski is well worth watching.
Based on the autobiography of Jean-Dominique Bauby, the Diving Bell and the Butterfly is an incredible story itself but it was hard to see how it could have been made into a cinematic event: yet director Julian Schnabel found away and stuck by his convictions, making it as a French film.Jean-Dominique Bauby (Mathieu Amalric) was the editor of Elle, a French fashion magazine. In 1995 he suffered a stroke and ended up trapped in his own body: he suffered 'locked-in syndrome' and he could only communicate by blinking his left end. The Diving Bell and the Butterfly tells how Bauby going through therapy with the aid of a speech therapist Henriette Durand (Marie-Josée Croze) to helps him communicate. He communicates by blinking with his left eye and dictates his memoirs and writes down his experiences of his illness. He looks back on his life as he writes and tries to over come his depression and disability.The plot itself sounds like something from a TV movie more then a theatrical release, but artist Julian Schnabel was able to make it into a real vision experience. Much of the film was shot from Bauby Point-of-View, a little like Peep Show, and it was deliberately out of focus or had bad closes of characters as we felt Bauby's plight. We get to hear Bauby's internal monologue like in Peep Show, again getting a insight of what he was feeling and thinking. Schnabel also added some artists flair, from the metaphor of a man in a driving suit in a dirty lake, a simple of what Bauby was feeling to a fantasy scene in during a summer sunset in the hill and a scene where Bauby's wife is standing on a train station and opposite her is a flashback of Bauby as a boy. The writing by Ronald Harwood is of a high level and he was able to make a compelling film. He focuses mostly on Bauby's struggle but also gives us a little insight in his past to show that he was a ordinary, if faulted middle class man. And the music by Paul Cantelon is always fitting, a mix of an original score and a soundtrack of French and English language songs.The acting in The Diving Bell and the Butterfly is superb. Everyone in the film were natural and it felt more like you were watching real people. There were some real emotional scenes in the film, like when Bauby's father (Max von Sydow) tries to speak to his son on the phone or when Bauby said he wants to die. This is a powerful film and the actors have to be praised for what they did. They did not overact which could have easily happened and the performances were as down to Earth as possible.
Sam Raimi is known as one of the best horror directors around in recent years: but he had left the genre to do some small projects like the Spider-man trilogy. He returns with a story idea that he wrote with his brother wrote 10 years before filming it. He also set out to get his production company Ghost House back on track after a very unsuccessful run.Christine Brown (Alison Lohman) was a young woman and loans officer at a local branch of a bank. She has a simple ambition to become the assistant manager but has to compete with the new employee Stu (Reggie Lee). She is a kind-hearted woman, in a long term relationship with Clay (Justin Long), a psychology lecturer at a local university. Christine is told to make some touch decisions if she wants to get the job. She refuses to give an old woman, Sylvia Ganush (Lorna Raver) an extension on her loan: a decision she regards because Ganush places a curse on the young woman. Christine ends up being haunted by a demon and she has only three days to save her soul from being taken to hell for all eternity. With the help of Clay and an Indian psychic, Rham Jas (Dileep Rao) Christine does everything she can to break the curse.With the horror genre you get a number of different types: serious like Let the Right One In, 28 Days Later, the Exorcist; slashers, e.g. Halloween, Friday the 13th; gorno like Hostel, Saw; comedy, e.g. Shaun of the Dead. And of course you can also sub-divide into types like Supernatural, monster-based, psychological, realistic, etc With the best horror films there is often deeper message behind the story and often focuses on great characters. Raimi obviously knows about putting a compelling protagonist in his film and the audience will care about Christine, a decent person who ends up having to explore her dark side so that she can save her soul. Christine extremely well played by Lohman who shows she is a competent actress, playing the lost young woman who has to toughen up quickly. She is joined by a decent cast, Rao and Raver were of particular note. Raimi did not set out to make the film too serious. There is not much of message except showing someone's dark survival instincts, but trying to retains some good and don't upset gypsies. Does not treat the film too seriously with violence moments of slapstick, like Christine using a stapler as a weapon and dropping a anvil on top of Ganush with the eyes popping out like in a cartoon. Raimi deliberately makes Ganush an over the top stereotype and very entertaining, you would have to be of a very sensitive disposition to be offended. Also, there is nothing funny and more surreal then a talking goat.Raimi also knows how to create an effective creepy atmosphere, using shadows to show demon was very well done. With his experience with Spider-man Raimi uses a lot of CGI in the film. Admittedly I am a traditionalist, CGI should only be used when there is no other alternative: but Raimi is skilled to make keep the film engaging and it allows him to use to do some extraordinary things. Raimi also mixed slapstick level violence and some gross out with more realistic style which at times effective, other times, not so fitting. Raimi was even able to fit in a few one liners, particularly with Christine nearing the end of the film. Raimi also shows his skill with a few clever camera and editing tricks, like when Christine was in a rainstorm and it turns into her being in the shower, which were nice touches.Plot wises the film was a little like Paranormal Activity: but it was a lot better then that poor excuse for a film. The main reason being that there was a real threat to the main character of the film to make you actually care about her and the events of the film. The demon was actually a creepy being, not a minor nuisance.Raimi shows that a horror film can be violence but does not have to be meaningless or violent just for the sake of it. Raimi gets the balance just right and the body court is surprising low in this film.But whilst Drag Me to Hell is a good film this is really a film for fans of the horror genre. Outsiders properly won't be won over.
Ridley Scott has a great reputation, making films like Alien, Blade Runner and Gladiator and is offer known for his grand and ambitious style. He started his feature film career with the historical drama The Duellists, following D'Hubert (Keith Carradine) and Feraund (Harvey Keitel), two French Army officers and their rivalry from 1800 to 1816, battling across Europe. The Duellist is a beautiful looking, clearly influenced by Stanley Kubrick's Barry Lyndon, using natural lighting and giving the film a realist look. Scott did replicate the time period and the atmosphere, particularly with the freezing cold, windy climate of the Russian winter. There are strong sword fights and The Duellists is surprisingly violence for a PG rated film whilst exploring the hypocrisy of the ideas of the honour when it turns men into savage beasts.The Duellists is strong debut from Scott who went onto greats, making a film that easily appeal to fans of historical films, period dramas and Barry Lyndon.
Simon Pegg and Nick Frost certainly have a great working relationship since their days on Spaced. It translated into a success film career and now they have attempted their biggest project and without long-time director Edgar Wright. Greg Mottola (Superbad) steps in and tackles this sci-fi comedy with a lot of success.Graeme (Pegg) and Clive (Frost) are two British sci-fi geeks visiting America, starting with Comic Con. They travel the Southwest to all the famous UFO sites where on the road they encounter a real-life alien, Paul (voiced by Seth Rogen). Graeme, Clive and Paul quickly have to go on the run from government agents (Jason Bateman, Bill Hader and Gregg Turkington) as they help Paul, but end up kidnapping a fundamentalist Christian, Ruth (Kristen Wiig), on the way.Paul is not as good as Shaun of the Dead or Hot Fuzz, but it is a film that Pegg and Frost fans will enjoy. There are plenty of laugh-out-loud moments with really funny plays on convention (my personal favourite involves probing), but there are also cruder moments that Pegg and Frost have avoided in the past. This is, of course, a move to cater to Seth Rogen's style of comedy. Added to the mix is Bateman's deadpan style working against his numb-skull colleagues. The mix of styles works well for the most part and there are some good running gags, but some do not work as well.Wright's directing style is very quick and kinetic in Hot Fuzz and "Shaun," but Mottola has a more relaxed style; he wanted Paul to unfold gradually. He is able to keep boredom from setting in, but he is working with a more rudimentary script.The chemistry between Pegg and Frost was never in doubt and Frost's character was made out to be smarter than he has been in previous films. They geeky pair play against Rogen's outrageous character who is intelligent but basically a frat boy. Wiig's role of a fundamentalist Christian turning into an atheist will possibly upset organisations like the Christian Science Monitor, but for me that is more an endorsement that shows some of the dogmatic views of creationists. Her discovery of swearing, however, does get tiring.The CGI for Paul was really effective, showing how a grey alien could really look. There was excellent little details in his face and the way he shows expressions. it's the kind of special effects that enhances a film.
Sylvester Stallone had a major comeback when he wrote and directed Rocky Balboa and Rambo, both being popular hits. With his career back on track he set out to make pretty much the ultimate action film with a cast of 80s, 90s and 00s action stars like Jason Statham, Jet Li, Dolph Lundgren, Mickey Rourke and Eric Roberts. The Expendables is set out to be a deliberate throwback to the 80s and is a unashameably enjoyable.After rescuing a ship crew from Somali pirates, Barney Ross (Stallone) and his team of mercenaries are offered a tough mission to assassin a military dictator of a small island by Mr. Church (Bruce Willis). When exploring the island with Lee Christmas (Statham) the team believe the mission is a suicide mission to kill a rogue CIA agent James Munroe (Roberts). But when their contact Sandra (Gisele Itie) is captured Barney feels compelled to save her. His team, Christmas, Yin Yang (Li), Hale Caesar (Terry Crews) and Toll Road (Randy Couture) go to save the woman and complete the mission.The Expendables does have problems: some of the acting is bad, particularly Itie and David Zayas who are both wooden, terrible dialogue and plot was a minor inconvenience. But The Expendables was never set out to be a Shakespeare: 80s films are not known for being heavy on plot. Stallone is a skilled action director and with The Expendables there were many delicious sequences, from fall blown gun battles to material arts fights. Many moments are over-the-top, like the use of plane and the final battle scene: but that is part of the fun. The film is very violence and enjoyable: Stallone does not hold back but I don't know why The Expendables got a 15 rating in the UK but Rambo was an 18. Both were as violence as each other.The film felt like that it had 80 minutes of material and that Stallone had to find way to stretch it: such as the fight seen between Lee Christmas and a group of men at a basketball court and the chase scene in the city. Many of the characters lack depth, with moments involving Christmas and his girlfriend (Charisma Carpenter) felt forced and we do not really understand why Barney gets a conscience to go to save a woman. There are moments of humour which are fun, but some other moments were funny when Stallone set it out to be serious.The Expendables sets out what it is meant to do: be an old-skool actioneer. It is a fun filled action film, with a lot of blood and a great film for men to watch together.
Sarah Palin is one of the most famous politicians in the world, a darling of the American Right and poster girl of the Tea Party. She is also one of the most controversial for the way she acted in the 2008 Presidential Election and a source of fear and mocking from most people who do not share her beliefs. In 2012 HBO made a TV movie, hoping to coincide with a potential Palin Presidential Campaign which luckily never happened. But Game Change is still an interesting film for people interested in American Politics.During the 2008 election Barack Obama is storming the ahead in the polls, having a successful trip in Europe and becomes known for his intelligence and charisma. The John McCain campaign led by Steve Schmidt (Woody Harrelson) feel the campaign needs to do something radical to get the media's attention and after its leaked that McCain's preferred choice for his VP nominate, Joe Lieberman, they see an opportunity to surprise the media and the voters. They feel John McCain needs to appeal to both women and the right and find the perfect candidate, Sarah Palin (Julianne Moore), Governor of Alaska. But despite her confidence as a speechmaker the stresses of the campaign makes Palin more unhinged and campaign more chaotic as she makes more and more gaffs.This is not a film that is going to appeal to Palin supporters, it takes a negative view of her as the film progresses. But I personally like to think of Game Change as both a story of the corrupting influence of modern, national politics on someone who was clearly not ready. There are moments showing Palin to be competent when being asked questions in a personal interview, thinking on her feet during a her convention speech and her great strength to the Republican party was see was seemingly relatable to middle Americans and approachable when she was governor and has a great care and understanding for people with Downs Syndrome. She also occasionally came up with a good point, like that it crude of the media to pick on her 17-year-old daughter. But it was clear she was not well educated, not even having a basic understanding issues and the world and cannot even answer questions that even people would little understanding of politics could answer.There is a strong cast in the film, Moore, Harrelson, Ed Harris and Sarah Paulson. All of them play their roles very well and Moore does get all the mannerisms and speech perfectly. This blended well with the naturalistic direction Jay Roach (most famous for the Austin Powers films and Meet the Parents). Add the characters are well written, all complex and well respected professionals. Whilst Harris did not really look much like John McCain the Senator was treated with respected and wants to do the right thing. He had suffered of being on the receiving end of a dirty campaign and did not wanted to win fairly. His team are smart: but they made a massive mistake picking Palin because she was inexperienced, unintelligence and it was a case was the campaign having their cake and eating it. I am personally of the view McCain did not need to appeal to the right because they were never going to vote for Obama and McCain needed a running mate who had economic experience.Roach has a low key style of direction and it is admitted a little too televisual. There is nothing wrong with it and it blends well when real footage was used. The pacing was fine and it will appeal to people who are fans of The West Wing, even though this film is more focused on a few character relationships between the characters and how they centre around Palin.The film itself revolves around five major events, the selection of Palin, the Convention, the disastrous interviews, the preparations for the VP debate and the end campaign as Palin goes rouge. There is large number of events to put into a film that is only two hours long and some of the pacing is at times too quickly, particularly at the end where she turned from a maniac depressive to being like a bull in a china shop and goes rogue. I would have wanted to see more of that and how the campaign turned so bitter.Game Change is an interesting enough film, even if it has a rather broad approach. But it does satisfy if you are longing for more West Wing style storytelling.7.5/10
Rope is renounced as one of Alfred Hitchcock's most ambitious films and his first colour film. It is a highly regarded film by his many fans and film buffs.Told in real time, Brandon Shaw (John Dall) and his submissive friend Phillip (Farley Granger) are two friends who murdered an old schoolmate thinking he is inferior. But Brandon is also a smug, arrogant man and celebrate the art of their crime by hosting a dinner party, inviting their victim's parents, his girlfriend, the friend's love rival and their old school house master, Rupert Cadell (James Stewart).One of the important elements of was it filmed as one long take with no breaks, leading the film to be in real time (and offering us one of the quickest dinner parties in history). Rope was based on a play the use of long take was able to keep the play setting whilst allowing the film to visually engaging. The camera flows naturally as we follow the characters and their actions and made for an organic experience, with the film feeling very grounded, using little music and focusing on the characters. A little detail I really liked was seeing the sky in background going darker during the running time. The best moments of tension come when Hitchcock focuses the camera on one particular thing, like focusing on Stewart's expression during a conversation and on the chest. But the moments where there are cuts are noticeable when the camera goes behind people's backs and there are two blatant cuts during the run time.Rope is very dialogue heavy film due to its set up and play origins. This is a very character driven film and has excellent acting constantly. Dall was fantastic in the lead, a psychopath who simply kills someone just to see what it is like and because he could, leading to his arrogance and cocky behaviour leading to him thinking he committed the perfect crime when it is anything but. Granger on the other hand is a much more nervous, jittery character who is stressed about his situation and quick to anger because of it. He is clearly a character way in way over his head. Whilst Stewart also gives a stellar performance, yet he is a man who has had a career of performances.Rope is an interesting film and I personally do love long takes in a films. It is a film that honours the stage play origins whilst making sure the film is cinematic. But whilst Rope is a solid film, there are better films in Hitchcock's filmography.
The Millennium Trilogy has become a publishing sensation, selling millions of around the world and made its author Stieg Larsson a household name after his death. A film adaptation was always going to be in high demand and the Swedish version is to make a feature film of the first novel and TV adaptation of the other two novels and The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo is one of the most successful Swedish films to date.Mikael Blomkvist (Michael Nyqvist) is a journalist who has been sued for libel and sentenced to three months in prison. With his reputation in tatters a major industrialist, Henrik Vanger (Sven-Bertil Taube) hires him to investigate an old mystery, the disappearance of 16-year-old great-niece Harriet (Julia Sporre). What makes the mystery even deeper is that it happened on an island that had no access to the mainland, no body was ever found and the Vanger family is distrustful, hateful bunch, so murder seems likes the only explanation. Lisbeth Salander (Noomi Rapace) is a skilled private investigator and a computer hacker and she has a very dark and troubled pass. A sadistic lawyer, Nils Bjurman (Peter Andersson) has control over her finances and Lisbeth has to find a way to neutralise him. Both Blomkvist and Salander are brought together and investigate what happen to Harriet, finding that something much bigger has been going on.The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo is a great novel, a real page turner making the reader really wanting to find out what happens next. Niels Arden Oplev and his writing team really a really great job at adapting the novel. If you are a complete purist you will never be happy with film adaptation but The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo does not cut much out, only a few subplots and change a few elements to avoid the film being over loaded with characters. The only changes that really cause any problems are the offer to Blomkvist for him to take what is a seemingly thankless job, his relationship of his daughter and his distrust of religion and some elements involving the business of Millennium which becomes important later in the series. But these are fairly minor and the film does a good job at getting round these issues.Oplev certainly made a stylist thriller and for a film that is 2 hours, 20 minutes long, he made sure that his adaptation was a tense, fast pace affair. Scenes of particular note are when Lisbeth are with Bjurman, where you could cut the tension with a knife because of the strong interplay by Rapace and Andersson and Oplev handling behind the camera. This is a dark moody film, filled with great acting throughout. The cast really fitted their roles being very much like their counterparts in the book. Anderson was particularly creepy as Bjurman and Rapace had a lot of fight in her as Lisbeth. Nyqvist made a really good Blomkvist and I want to see what The actors in the Hollywood version have a lot to live up to. Oplev made sure that his version is very hard hitting film but so is the book and Larrson did not hold back. Everything worked in this film, the music, the editing, the cinematography and art direction. It is a well made adaptation.One criticism I have of the books is that I find some of Larrson's characterisation of some of his villains. In The Girl in the Dragon Tattoo it was very complex and believable about how sadists, rapists and serial killers are like, but later on Larrson goes for big conspiracy theories about big business and Security Services and most of the bad guys are hate women, blaming them for all their problems. There is also Larrson's politics, pretty much everyone good is centre-left, no one is even mildly conservative and Larrson has a real disrespect for the centre-right. I have same problem with Tom Clancy who idealises Ronald Regan and most the Republican party and vigilantes and anyone who is a Democrat or a peace activist or supports anything the Republicans disagrees with is a someone who wants to hold back or destroy America and the West: rant over!
I hate Braveheart! As an Englishman and as a history student I am insulted by this film. It is obvious that Mel Gibson has a hatred for England and Britain as whole and Randell Wallace only looked at a basic history of the Scotland war and I mean really basic!The film is about William Wallace's rising against the English in the late 13th Century. They are many historical inaccuracies in the film. I can understand minor things just to make the story flow better but Braveheart takes the biscuit. William Wallace was a minor noble and he wouldn't have lived in a shack, and most of the Scottish nobles in the film also were living in poor conditions which was not the case. Scottish nobles were well-off and wouldn't have been must different to English nobles. Many Scottish nobles tended to own land in England as well as Scotland. The film make out that England had invaded and occupied Scotland for a long time, what really happened was Edward I wasn't too interested in Scottish affairs at first and he was later invited to help the Scottish to solve the crisis in picking a new king. However, Edward I became upset when his ally he made king tried to flex his muscles. Braveheart also makes out the Scottish army ran around painted themselves blue and defeated a superior army with ease. The Scottish army in the late 13th century wouldn't have been much different to any army in Western Europe and would have been as well armed and armoured to as the English army. The only different between the English and Scottish armies were the Scottish army was more infantry based whilst the English army was more calvary based. I personally think this film is pretty insulting to Scotland as well as England! William Wallace would not have fought for revenge or freedom but for his own personal interest, believing he would have got a better deal any an independent Scotland then under semi-English rule. They was no idea of nationalism or the nation-state in the medieval period. As well as already mentioned many Scottish nobles had land in England and many had English names like Campbell. The film also ignores that William Wallace was also a brutal man, not some heroic revolutionary. They are other things such as the Battle for Stirling Bridge was not fought at a bridge and that it was implied that Queen Isabel was in love with Wallace and that he fathered Edward III, which couldn't have been possible because at the time Wallace's death Isabel was six-years-old and lived in France. Some people have praised the acting in the film, I ask why? I don't think its anything special. Mel Gibson's performance wasn't particularly good, and only Sophie Marceau stood out to me. Edward I was a one-dimensional villain, showing he takes joy out of violence and death, in real-life he was an experience commander, but he was no different to any other Christain king at the time. William Wallace was a simple man who was driven to going to war, against this did not happen. Prince Edward was effeminate, weakly wimp: he was bisexual and not a good military commander, but he was not weak willed and he couldn't have lasted in medieval society if he was effeminate. He was also famous be being a fit man. The portrayal of Prince Edward was homophobic.This was a hate-filled movie that shouldn't have been made. If it was made as a fictional film set in an made-up country it would have called unrealistic. This was a weak film and should not have won Oscars for best Director or best Film, the Usual Suspect was hundred times better and should have won those Oscars. The only good thing to come out of the film was some good action and the costumes of the English army. But this is not enough to save this film and people have seen Mel Gibson and Randall Wallace for what they really are for making films such as the Passion of the Christ, Apocalypto and Pearl Harbor. If you have any taste at all don't watch this film!
There have been many successful adaptations of John le Carre's spy novels over the years, The Spy Who Came in From the Cold, Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy and The Constant Gardener just to name a few. A Most Wanted Man sees le Carre moving into the War on Terror and the adaptation serves as Phillip Seymour Hoffman's leading role swansong.Günther Bachmann (Hoffman) is a world weary man leading a small counter-terrorism team in Hamburg after an operation went wrong in the Middle East. He is setting out to prove that a liberal Islamic Scholar is using his charities as a front to fund terrorism. With his superiors in Berlin and Washington demanding results, Bachmann is forced to bring in a tortured Chechen rebel, Issa (Grigoriy Dobrygin), his left-wing lawyer, Annabel (Rachel McAdams) and an English banker, Tommy Brue (Willem Dafoe) who had dodgy dealings with a Russian general. Soon a complex web forms as many factors are in play, factions willing to double-cross each other and the stresses of the espionage world takes its toll on all involved.Le Carre's work is known for its realism, there is little action in his books and film adaptations. The films are known for their character focus and the functioning of a spying organisation or operation. A Most Wanted Man does both, showing the strains of espionage on seasoned agents to people who are manipulated into the shadowy world and the operations to turn various people to support their side. Thought-out the film, there are contentious power plays between the different political sides within the German intelligence apparatus and Bachmann with the CIA's leader in Germany, Martha (Robin Wright).Hoffman gave a brilliant performance as we would expect from a man of his talents. He brilliantly play a jaded spy with the weight of the world on his shoulders. He is good at his job, following targets, recruiting agents, analysing intelligence, psychologically analysing people and everything else a spy does: but he deals with his work with heavy drinking and smoking. Bachmann looks drained as a result of his experience, made worst by all the grey morality of his world, both macro of the war on terror and micro of managing his field agents. He has the strains of both the pressures of getting results while he wants to play the long game, and the strain the world puts on his agents. Bachmann has to act as both manipulator and comforter to his sources as their own loyalties are tested. Hoffman deserves a posthumous Oscar nomination.Director Anton Corbijn follows the success of other le Carre adaptations, focusing on a realistic spy world and A Most Wanted Man moves his work to the War on Terror. He formed a great cast and they give strong performances. There are great quiet moments which le Carre's adaptations are known for as characters come to realisations. A Most Wanted Man is set mostly in the less glamorous areas of Hamburg: the port, the concrete underpasses and even the agency's office is a rundown industrial building. There is no glamour in this version of espionage, yet Corbijn still wonderful photographs the city.Screenwriter Andrew Bovell does make some changes from novel, mainly serving to make the film adaptation a more lean affair. The film adaptation cuts to chase revealing the big target much earlier than the book and some of the subplots cut from the adaptation, such as MI6's involvement in the operation and Issa's psychological damage is underplayed. Tommy Brue's role is reduced and his subplot of seeking redemption for his father is removed and there is barely any focus on the banking part of the novel.A Most Wanted Man is a very strong adaptation of the novel, a taut story that allowed both complicities of espionage, and the characters involved, to shine through. As well as pleasing le Carre fans and serving as a good spy thriller, the espionage story and the internal power struggles will make fans of Spooks happy.
When it was first announced that there going to be a bio-pic about Mark Zuckerberg and the creation of Facebook it was seen by many as a quick cash-in on the popularity of website. But luckily Aaron Sorkin wrote the script and David Fincher was setting in the director's chair and that made The Social Network one of the most highly anticipated film. It is clear that The Social Network is going to be one of the big hitters at the Oscars this year (though my preference is for Inception).The film tells two stories that are interlinked. The first from 2003 when Mark Zuckerberg (Jessie Eisenberg) as a Harvard undergrad who after breaking up with his girlfriend Erich (Rooney Mara) has a misogynistic rant on the internet and make a website, FaceMash where men get to rate Harvard female undergrads against each other. When he gains notoriety the Winklevoss Twins (Armie Hammer) recruit him to make a website, but he ends up making his own website with his best friend Eduardo Saverin (Andrew Garfield). But as Facebook grows Saverin believes that they need to make money out of the website and Zuckerberg falls under the spell of Sean Parker (Justin Timberlake), the founder of Napster who wants to isolate Saverin. In 2007 the film tells the two lawsuits Zuckerberg is facing with the Winklevoss twins and Saverin both suing him.Sorkin is a great writing and The Social Network shows his skills and usual traits of quick, intelligence, witty dialogue, intelligence well developed characters and quick pacing and excellent plotting, using the legal proceedings as a framing device. The film sets out to show that Harvard is controlled by social elites, with misogyny raging in the Final Clubs. Sorkin was unable to speak to Zuckerberg so most of the script was a fiction, but it was an entertaining fiction. Fincher's direction added to the script; keeping the film down to Earth and Jeff Cronenweth's dark cinematography adding to the tone of the film. Fincher kept the film in the real world and unlike Oliver Stone who tried to be stylist with Wall Street: Money Never Sleeps (a film that was difficult to make visual), Fincher takes a more gritty realistic tone. Fincher and Sorkin shows that Harvard can be a sleazy place with heavy drinking, drug taking and treating women as no more then sex objects: but there are also intelligence people there and people who disagree with what Zuckerberg did. Fincher and Sorkin make a fast paced, entertaining drama with moments of comedy.There is a very good young cast in the film. Eisenberg plays Zuckerberg almost like he was autistic, a young man with great intelligence but almost no social skills, who as Erich said 'But you're going to go through life thinking that girls don't like you because you're a nerd. And I want you to know, from the bottom of my heart, that that won't be true. It'll be because you're an asshole', which is true in the context of the film. Zuckerberg is a shown to be a man willing to steal other people's ideas and concepts, use people and string them along and hides behind computers, becomes horribly bitter if anyone dares cross him and the internet because his lack of social skills. Hammer has a tough job of playing twins and two different characters and he puts it off. Both men are from a wealthy background and felt wronged by Zuckerberg. Garfield is a strong performer, playing one of the few truly sympathetic characters of the film, someone royally screwed over by his one time friend. Before the film Timberland did not have a great reputation as an actor but Fincher was able to get the best out of him and show he can be a good acting talent. Sean Parker is made to be the real villain of the piece, a man who looks a like a 30-year-old who wants to be a uni student, a man who speaks pretentious rubbish about the internet and what he did with the music industry; a man who used Zuckerberg.Sorkin worried that his characters would not sound real because of their age: but Sorkin knows that everyone is an individual and have their own speech pattern. Whilst there is slang that every generation claims for themselves most teenagers and young adult speak the same as everyone else and it great that Sorkin makes his young characters sound intelligence. Language has not changed much between generations and if anything the internet has made it more universal.With all the good things about The Social Network, I am critical of their portrayal of England in a short sequence, going through all the posh stereotypes of what an American would think England is like. I would have expected better from Fincher and Sorkin who are both intelligence men and well travelled. Also it was a shame their didn't use the Kolacny Brothers and Scala version of Creep in the film.Overall, an excellent film and deserving of most of the praise it has received.
It is fair to say that M. Night Shyamalan has been going down hill for a long time. Non of his films has matched The Sixth Scene's quality and slowly his writing has become worst. He has made 3 flops in a row, Lady in the Water, The Happening and The Last Airbender. But after making The Sixth Sense he had the world as his feet, he was touted as a potential director for Harry Potter and he was allow to make his dream project, Unbreakable.David Dunn (Bruce Willis) is a Philadelphia security guy and when returning from a job interview was in a horrific train clash. He was the only survive and even more miraculous David was unharmed. David ends up being very confused by why he survived and added to mix is his dissolving marriage with Audrey (Robin Wright Penn) and strain relationship with his son Joseph (Spencer Treat Clark). A comic book collector Elijah Price (Samuel L. Jackson), suffering from osteogenesis imperfecta (brittle bone disease) believes that David is a real life superhero and that comic-book as a visual median were originally based on real people and just manipulated over time. Elijah tires to convince David that there is something more to his life and try and become a real life superhero despite David's scepticism.As stated Shyamalan had a lot of good will behind him after The Sixth Sense, which allowed him to make this project. With Unbreakable he was able to create a good supernatural thriller in the real world; this is not your traditional superhero film. It was shot very much like The Sixth Sense, with Shyamalan skillful using a lot of single shots, long takes with the camera moving during the scene and adding to the intense, tight feeling of Unbreakable. It was dark, moody and slowly building up throughout the film. There are excellent scene like when Joseph points a gun at David to prove that he had supernatural powers. This is a film trying to set the idea of a real-life superhero, this is not like Spider-man where he gets new powers and practices and makes a costume or Batman where he has to train himself and have a range of gadgets or X-Men where the world is filled with people with powers. David has to slowly discovery the secret about himself and give himself a purpose in live. There was able a good amount of comic book reference and talk throughout the film and of course there is a lot of iconography in comic book art, but I think it's a bit of a stretch to think someone would believe that comic books are based on real people. Shyamalan only shows one fight scene but it was a well constructed scene, with the camera up in the corner of the room and just keeps it there. It was a well executed scene. The dialogue was strong and Unbreakable has a very interesting plot and idea. But there are some plot inconsistencies which affect the film, like how David starts to develop his instinct powers.Willis and Jackson have worked together before in Pulp Fiction (even though didn't have a scene together) and Die Hard with Vengeance, and again there have excellent chemistry. I personally believe that Willis is a very talented actor, the best out of all the action stars of his era and with Unbreakable he gives a very powerful performance. He play the role with real conviction and was real in his performance. Jackson is one of the coolest actors around and too was a good as Elijah, but there were the occasional moment of over acting, like when he shoots at a customer. But of course when Jackson is on form he is amazing. I can see that Shyamlan was trying to find another Haley Joel Osment when he cast Clark, but he was not quite as good as Osment was in the Sixth Sense. Wright Penn was also good throughout the film and show she is a talented actress as a woman trying to keep her marriage going.I love the idea of trying to make a more realistic superhero film and Shyamalan was able to a make a good thriller. It's a shame that he is one a mission to destroy his own career because he can direct some really good set piece and he needs to make more smaller thrillers.
I have just seen this film and I think that it is Tim Burton's best film. Ed Wood is a bio-pic about the worst film director in Hollywood, Edward D. Wood. It is mostly a comedy, but is serious at times and is a perfect project for Burton and Johnny Depp. The film shows that Ed Wood was a struggling director who had to work at a studio as a stage hand to make ends meat. He get an opportunity to write, direct and star in movie about someone getting a sex change and able to get his hero, Bela Lugosi, to be in it. He makes a terrible film and can't find a studio to hire him. He decides to finance and produce his own films and makes a load of B-movies, which are not very good. Ed Wood is portrayed as a nice man who loves what he does and wants to be like Orson Wells. Unforuately his isn't very good at what he does. As well as the comedy in the film, there is dramatic aspects, such as Ed's transvestitism, his relationships and Bela's drug problems. The characters in this film are over-the-top but I think that it works for this film.The film was well written, has a good cast and I liked the fact that it was filmed in 1950s style and shows how the film industry works. I also liked how Ed Wood was portrayed a man that was too positive for his own good. I admit that I don't know much about the man but he most be better then Uwe Boll who is considered the worst director at the moment is just arrogant about his work and considers himself as a misunderstood man and he will never gain a cult following.Ed Wood is a good film, and if you like Tim Burton and Johnny Depp then you will like this film.
King Kong was a film that Peter Jackson loved as a kid and after the success of Lord of the Rings was able to choice any project he wanted. Whilst most remakes either are just a shot for shot redo of the previous movie or miss out key moments of scene, Jackson actually doubles to the length of King Kong. The story of the film is simple, a group of filmmakers and sailors go off to an uncharted island and find a privative tribe and pre-historic creatures. One of them is a giant gorilla called Kong and the people capture him and take him back to New York where he escapes and runs amok. What Peter Jackson does is add more characterisation, more emotion and more action. Whilst in the original they were no real villain, in the remake Carl Denham is made a more dislikeable character, only really caring about himself and making a name for himself. Jack Driscoll is made out to be more human. In the original he was a emotionless hero, he is made out to be a normal man who is put into an extraordinary position and tries to save his love. Ann Darrow is given more background to her character, showing her as a comedy performance who losses her job and forced to steal to get food and Carl gives her a lifeline. In this version Ann actually falls in love with Kong, compared to the original. There are great action sequences in this film. They is a brilliant fight between Kong and 3 dinosaurs and stampede of dinosaurs which the sailors and filmmakers get cause up in. They is also a creep scene involving giant spiders and worms which Lumpy the chef (Andy Serkis) dies in a very horrible way. I also really like the end scene on the top of the Empire State Building and Kong fighting the biplanes. The Special Effects are top nod, some of the best you will see. Kong is especially good, with Andy Serkis doing motion capture and getting the movements of a gorilla perfectly and Kong does look like a giant gorilla. The film also has a score which is very similar to Lord of the Rings. It possibly because of Peter Jackson's experience with that trilogy, but I felt it worked. I also thought it was a good move to set the movie in 1933 and avoids putting it into a contemporary setting. Depression era New York was very well captured and itself is a character in the film. Peter Jackson was also able to add in-jokes to the film, such as the joke about Fay Wray.However there are problems with the film. It is too long and Peter Jackson does add too much. He could have cut some scene, especially in the first third where it did get boring at times. It was also trying too hard to make us care for the characters, even minor characters like Jimmy and Hayes. It also plays down the relationship of Ann and Jack and overplays the relationship between Ann and Kong. In the original Ann feared Kong. I also didn't like that Carl was made into a villainous character and thought that Jack Black wasn't the best actor for the role. But the rest of the cast was good.King Kong is an enjoyable film with get action, but I still have a love for the original.
I am disappointed about what a number of critics have said about this Bond film. The acting was great, especially Sophie Marceau. The plot was good and not out of the realms of possibility. The gadgets were realistic as well and the action was non-stop and fun. The direction by Michael Apted was also good and what I except from a Bond film My only criticisms was the casting of Denise Richards because she can't act and I would have casted someone older and John Cleese as R because his type of comedy does not fit with Bond, but luckily he was only in the film for a minute and the send off for Desmond Llewelyn was worthy to his years of service. A worthy Bond film to watch and as long as you don't watch Die Another Day, Pierce Bronson would be join best Bond with Sean Connery.
There are four main things wrong with Rush Hour 3: Chris Tucker, Chris Tucker, Brett Ratner and Chris Tucker. Here we have another example of a film franchise that is too successful for its own good, and in the year of threequels, this was one we didn't need.Set a few years after Rush Hour 2, James Carter (Chris Tucker) is no more then an LA traffic cop and Lee (Jackie Chan) is the head bodyguard for the Chinese Ambassador. The Chinese Ambassador is about to reveal who the heads of the Triads are when he is shot and wounded by a sniper. James and Lee end up working together again, and take their investigation Paris and set out to break-up the Triad.The plot is skeleton thin, like they have been in the previous Rush Hour films; but this is a new low! The plot is overly silly, and way too over the top. The film repeats the same plot with even less success. There are pointless sub-plots, some thinks that wouldn't even work in a action comedy, like Lee haven't a Japanese step-brother. The treatment of the French is awful, unrealistic and just playing to neo-Con crowd in the States which was out of date even in 2007. I can imagine some idiots cheering when Chris Tucker forced a French Taxi driver to sing the American national anthem. It is the stereotypical Hollywood of the French where their our hopeless, corrupt and completely anti-American and Xenophobic. It's complete rubbish.Chris Tucker is the film's lowest point. He is a terrible actor and comedian. His style of humour is simply to shot as loudly and as quickly as possible. They is no wit or insight in to his humour. He can't act and he is really annoying. He offers nothing but racism in his humour, pretty much saying, 'I'm Black, you're Asian'. If it was a white comedian then they would be an absolute media storm. They are many more talent comedians and actors of African-American descent, like Chris Rock to Will Smith to Denzel Washington. The film also suffers from bad writing in the jokes department. I saw some of Rush Hour and whilst it wasn't a classic, it at least has some sharper writing behind it. What is more sickening is that Chris Tucker got paid $30 Million for this rubbish, there are many talented people struggling to break through in the industry.Jackie Chan, a master of material arts and a legend of Hong Kong cinema is little served by this film, having very little to do. He doesn't even get to use his talents in material arts that much. I'm such he only did the film for money (he got a percentage of the Asian profit) and loyalty because the series gave him his big break in Hollywood. Even he doesn't like the humour in the series.Brett Ratner is a terrible director, a hack who is a man you get when no one else is available. He was hired to Red Dragon because the studio wanted a safe pair of hands to copy Johnathan Demme style of Silence of the Lambs, and turned X-Men from an excellent sci-fi series into no more then a wham-bam action film. Here with Rush Hour, he is flogging a dead horse with a pointless second sequel to a film which was only okay to begin with. He shoots some rubbish action scene, like the material arts school, he can't handle humour and he can't reign in his actors (a problem he always suffers). He is a man who such quit directing because he only offers rubbish after rubbish.A great example of the awfulness of the film is a joke involving two Chinese characters called Yu and Mi, and Chris Tucker motormouth confusion.A needless film that should be avoid. It is not a fun film like it pretends to be. If you dislike Chris Tucker you would possibly end up self harming if you watch this.
We all know of the battle on the internet between Twihard and Twihaters, both be very vocal opinions and giving the films artificially high and low scores. This is clear when you look at the voting breakdown on the IMDb scores for all three Twilight films so far and since Twihaters are much more likely to use IMDb they have made the scores low. I am a neutral to Twilight so my review for Eclipse will be honest.Eclipse starts off with a more darker opening, with a young man, Riley Biers (Xavier Samuel) getting attacked by a vampire outside a Seattle bar on a cold rainy night. The film then goes to Forks to see Edward (Robert Pattinson) and Bella (Kristen Stewart) as they prepare for their graduation, but importantly for the date Bella will have to be turned into a vampire. Bella has to say to goodbye to everyone she knows, without them even knowing she is going. But matters are made more complex because of the feud between Edward and Jacob (Taylor Lautner) because of Jacob's love for Bella, the feud between the Cullen vampires and the Quileute werewolves and more important, Victoria (Bryce Dallas Howard) and her army of new born vampires wanting to kill Bella.The coup for the Twilight franchise was getting David Slade to direct Eclipse. I personally think Slade is not the great new hope some critics making him out to be but he does have a reputation after making Hard Candy and 30 Days of Night. Still he does have a darker edge then Chris Weitz who directed New Moon and he is more confidence with action compared to Catherine Hardwicke. There were interesting moments like the flashbacks showing the origins of Rosalie (Nikki Reed) and Jasper (Jackson Rathbone). In the film it shows that Rosalie was properly gang raped and when she was turned into a vampire she got her bloody revenge (though it cuts away before you got to see the juicy violence). Rosalie is also interesting because she hates being a vampire and tells Bella what her dreams were before she was turned. The action is also the best in the series having a big battle between the Cullen and werewolves against the new born vampires. Many vampires deaths are actually shown this time round. I just wish that the action scenes were longer. The CGI for the wolves is better then it was in New Moon and they did have more of a wolf like look when in New Moon they looked more like huskies.A problem of the series has been the acting. Stewart is a little stiff but she is not terrible, she is not the whiny then she was in New Moon. Pattinson is decent and he is best of the trio of stars, adding some dramatic weight and I personally believe he will be successful after Twilight. He is at least trying to make more independent projects like Water and Elephants. On the other hand Lautner is a terrible actor, unable to show real emotion and I am sure he was cast because of his body and that he looks a little Native American. Its even joked in the film on whether he has a top on. His performance and character felt forced and he relationships with the characters was empty. Most of the younger members of the tribe looked like they were cast because of their looks. Some of the supporting cast were better, like Reed and Anna Kendrick but they are not given enough screen time.A problem that I have with all the Twilight films is that they come up with interesting ideas but does not explore them enough. This time round it was the formation of a vampire army: I would have liked to have seen how that was done, how people were targeted, turned and fed a diet of ideas to make them loyal. I wanted to see the violence and chaos they caused in Seattle and more of the public and media panic. I liked the idea that newborn vampires are more powerful but are particularly wild animals with no control. I have not read the books, so I can only judge Eclipse as a film but I do know that the character Bree Tanner (Jodelle Ferland) is teenager who was turned into a vampire was expanded on. I would liked to seen the story through her eyes and how she hates what she has become. But she is barely in the film.There are some interesting ideas in the film. The main one is Bella who is willing to sacrifice her innocents, life and chance to gain experiences for love, particularly because Bella is only 18 and she if she goes through with the change it would be a mistake she can never rectify. I know that focus was always going to be on Bella and Edward, but some scenes involving those two and Bella's home and social situation could have been shorten and the action/adventure element been heighten up.On a technically the music score is the best so far. That is thanks to Howard Shore, a great composer who is best know for his work on Lord of the Rings. His music was fitting to the situation, whether it is an important fight or a more personal scene and Slade and Shore rely least on outside music. Javier Aguirresarobe is also a very good cinematography, having worked on New Moon and The Road and he is able to craft some really nice shots of the mountains in the background and foreground, the sunny environment of Bella's mum's home and the field of bluebells.Eclipse is the best of the Twilight films so far.
The 1972 sci-fi film Silent Running is highly influential, but often overlooked film from period that produced a lot of great and bleak sci-fi.In the future all plant life on Earth has died and the last remaining plants are on a greenhouses in deep space. Four astronauts are the mission to maintain the space station and the plants. But when they are ordered to destroy the greenhouses domes, Freeman Lowell (Bruce Dern) kills the other crew members and takes the station into deep space, committed to the ideal of protecting the plants and bringing them back to Earth. Alone, Lowell's only company are three drones and his sanity is slowly tested as they drift deeper into space.Silent Running is a very bittersweet film that has heart and sadness in it. It is centred around a great performance by Dern gives an intense, committed performance, made even more impressive because he had to work around for a majority of the film. Director Douglas Turnbull was also able to give the three drones plenty of personality and makes you care for them, from their looks to each other, there body language and actions.Silent Running is a very politically minded film about its themes about environmentalism, deforestation and protecting natural landscapes. The film through Lowell does become very preachy and forceful with his viewpoint, but that is compared to an attitude of apathy and not seeing a real problem on Earth. Even now we have this debate and back in the 70s the issues of environmentalism were less pronounced.Silent Running has a constantly bleak and sombre tone, both about in its grand themes and it the personal story about Lowell, all leading to a bittersweet ending.Turnball came from a special effects background and his experience shows on screen with fantastic, having great model work, art direction and costumes of the drones. There is a great scene of detail and scene of scale. Turnball put his experience on 2001: A Space Odyssey to good use. The interior shots of the station also well done, having that 70s version of the future. The only real criticism is the explosions are only shown as The music by Peter Schickele added to the atmosphere, from the soft piano to a moment with more grand moments when showing the exterior.It is clear how Silent Running influenced films like Moon and WALL-E with its story, style, themes and scenes. Silent Running is an excellent sci-fi that was made in a period that produced films like THX-1138, Logan's Run, Soylent Green and Alien.
The Road and The Book of the Eli were two films released pretty closely tacking the subject of a post-apocalyptical world: 2012, Roland Emmerich so-called final disaster film, sets out to show the apocalypse happening in the most stupid way possible.Starting in 2009, a scientist in India (Jimi Mistry) discovers that solar flares are shooting radioactive particles to Earth, overheating the Earth's core and shifting the tectonic plates. With every major government aware of the situation they make plans to safeguard humanity, getting all the world's treasures and getting rich people to donate 1 Billon for a ticket on ships to save people. Fast forward to 2012 and the world starts to crumble. Jackson Curtis (John Cusack) is a struggling sci-fi writer and limo driver, who one holiday in Yellowstone National Park meets a conspiracy theorist (Woody Harrelson), who tells him about the ships to save humanity and before California falls into the sea Jackson saves his family, son Noah (Liam James), daughter Lily (Morgan Lily), ex-wife Kate (Amanda Peet) and plastic surgeon/Kate's boyfriend Gordon (Thomas McCarthy). In Washington D.C. there is a conflict between the president's scientific adviser Adrian Helmsmen (Chiwetel Ejiofor) and Chief of Staff Carl Anheuser (Oliver Platt) as they clash over what is the best way to save humanity whilst President Thomas Wilson (Danny Glover) has to deal with his conscience.Scientifically 2012 is complete rubbish and there are plot holes galore, from how could some massive ships be made in Tibet without anyone noticing? How could they build them in 2 years and have to make a base as well? Surely wouldn't scientists who were not involved with governments might have discovered what's going and wouldn't the media question the large number of deaths of prominent people. As well if this was sure a big crisis then governments would have made the ships be made by public money and wouldn't need to sell to the highest bidder. The plot about saving humanity and civilisation felt very much like Deep Impact but took a more unrealistic and unbelievable route. There is also the human element of disbelief from how Jackson seem to have the skills of a stunt driver and that Gordon would only had a few flying lessons is able to fly a plane through a collapsing city, which even a Stealth Fighter with top of the range computers would struggle to go through.As a director Emmerich is not known for his subtlety or his restraint. The death court in his disaster films has raisin from the world's major cities in Independence Day, the whole of the northern hemisphere in The Day After Tomorrow and know it is the whole world with 2012. The CGI effects are very good in 2012 and it is a fun, clean way to see millions of people getting killed: though I prefer it when a director only uses CGI when there is no other option and special effects do not make a film. There was a bit to much green screen and not enough scenes shot on location. But some of the scenes were just lifted from other films, like the plane taking of with the group collapsing is very much like the scene same in Independence Day, the ship being capsized is a cross between Poseidon and Titanic. The government preparations are a dumb downed version of Deep Impact and some of the family scenes are like a scene from a Spielberg film but very poorly done. Emmerich also follows his other popular theme of stupid or corrupt government officials who do not listen to reason. And the film is way too long and there are to many characters who are pointless or add nothing to the film: Thandie Newton may as well not been in it because her character did not do anything to the plot, there are stupid characters like the Russian twins and many other characters just serve to move the plot along. Plus it is too convenient about how some characters meet and know each other. Finally, a little SPOILOR ALERT: I really doubt that President's Chief-of-Staff would take the American government; wouldn't major politicians be saved so someone in the American command take over, from the Speaker, a Cabinet member or a senior senator. Plus I doubt the Italian PM would stay in Italy, particularly if he is meant to be like Silvio Belusconi who in real life would be the first to go and possibly take three of his finest prostitutes.Many of the actors know that 2012 is just rubbish and obviously did it for the money. They don't give their all. Ejiofor is a great actor and deserve to do more major roles and I think he needs to do a really good drama in the near future. Newton too is normally better then this and admittedly I though it was a little weird seeing two British actors together with American accents. Cusack obviously never followed his potential but he is not a good leading man in this film: he is more a comic actor then an action hero. I like Peet but her characters follows the cliché that she is still in love with her ex and Lily and Russian twins are some of the worst child actors I have seen for awhile. Glover is also an actor who was in the film because of the money and Harrelson who was offering comic relief has the mercy of limited screen time (his character was a little like the abducted crop-duster pilot in Independence Day). I like Harrelson normally. But character development has never been Emmerich's strong point.Overall this is a film that appeals to the lowest common denominated and relies on the audience have a no intelligent. There are some decent action sequences, but 2012 is pretty much a best of Emmerich which fails. Watch Independence Day or The Day After Tomorrow instead.
The supernatural drama had a great if unusual selection of talent behind it: director Clint Eastwood, writer Peter Morgan and producer Steven Spielberg. But it was for that reason people were interested in Hereafter.Hereafter tells three parallel stories. The first is about French journalist Marie Lelay (Cecile de France) who ends up getting cause in the 2004 tsunami where she suffers a near death experience and sees the afterlife. As the experience takes its toll she starts to research the scientific possibilities of there being a afterlife and plans to write a book. In London are twins Marcus and Jason (Frankie and George McLaren) whose mother (Lyndsey Marshal) is a heroin addict and are trying to avoid going into care. But when Jason dies in an accident Marcus is overcome with grief and tries to find any way to contact his brother from beyond the grave. Finally there is George Lonegan (Matt Damon), a factory worker in San Francisco who is able to communicate with the dead. But he sees his ability as a curse and avoids using it despite people's demands.Whilst Hereafter is a very interesting film it is also disjointed and unfocused, trying to cram too much into a two hour film. Either it should have been extended to be a mini-series or one of the plots could and should have been cut out. The story involving Marie felt very underwhelming and when nowhere. It simply did not feel like it belonged to the film. A story about George, a man who is very reluctant to use his ability and how it ruins his life could have made an excellent film by itself. There were sadly ideas and subplots that were never properly explored, Bryce Dallas Howard was wasted in her role. The third act also felt very rushed as forced, trying to find a way to get all the characters together and the ending came out of nowhere.A strength of Eastwood's direction was the film was grounded and underplayed, making Hereafter seem like it does take in the real world. It is a set in a slightly bleak look world, set in industrial places and poorer communities and the presence of death is always in the background. It is a actually quite a bleak film throughout, enhanced by good lead performance by Damon. The score by Eastwood too was very fitting, a gently piece of music using the piano and soft instruments which suited the actions on scene.De France and most of the supporting cast were good in their roles, most of them are fine professional actors but the McLaren were a bit weak. They were non-actors and it is options for young twins are limited but there a little on the stiff side. But they were not the biggest problem to the film.Hereafter is an interested film but it had a lot of ideas and themes left unexplored. It is worthy viewing and at least it is trying to be different.
I have just been to seen Iron Man and I liked it. Iron Man is based on the the Marvel comic and is there first film they have done by themselves.Iron Man starts with Tony Stark (Robert Downey Jr.) was in Afghanistan to show his company's latest weapon, the Jericho, which was a missile that could fire miniature missiles. However, Stark gets captured by a terrorist group the Ten Rings. In the attack he is badly injured and a capture surgeon using a car battery an electrical-magnet to prevent metal from getting to his heart. However, instead of building a missile Stark makes his own Iron Man suit and uses the electrical-magnet to power it. After escaping from the terrorist camp he is saved by American troops and is returned to America. It was then that he declared that Stark Industries would stop selling weapons and many people within the company and the media worry thinking that Stark had lost his mind. After this Stark refines his design for the Iron Man suit and learns that his friend and business partner, Obadiah Stane (Jeff Bridges), was secretly selling terrorist Stark industry weapons. One the Iron Man suit was refined he goes off to Afghanistan to do battle with the terrorist and test it out. The terrorists also discover the original iron man suit and end up giving Stane it and he uses it to develop his own suit to become Iron Monger. At the end of the film Iron Man and Iron Monger do battle at Stark Industries and Iron Man becomes known to the world.Iron Man is harder to make into a realist film to other superhero films but it works. What the writers and director do is set Iron Man in the near future with technology being very important to the world. Jon Favreau also updates the film from Stark getting captured in Vietnam going to China to being captured in Afghanistan. Iron is also more humorous then other comic book adaptations, but it works for Iron Man. Favreau also has a good cast to work with, Downey was good as Tony Stark and he will possibly develop the character from a billionaire playboy to someone more darker. Gwyneth Paltrow was good as Pepper Potts and had good chemistry with Downey. Terrence Howard was casted with the sequel in mind and become War Machine. Finally there was Jeff Bridges, an actor I like played the villain. Finally their were cameos from a number of people, including Jon Favreau as Stark's bodyguard, John Crammer as himself, Stan Lee and last but not less Samuel L. Jackson as Nick Fury at the end of the film. The special effects were impressive and needed because there was no other way of it being done. The action was great, especially the fight between as Iron Man and Iron Monger.However, this film does have problems. It was made with sequels in mind and at time was predictable. However, it still a fun film.
When The Empire Strikes Back ended on a cliffhanger a sequel was inevitable. The audience wanted more and closure to the saga. Whilst Return of the Jedi was the weakest of the original trilogy, it is still a very entertaining film and Star Wars is one of the few trilogies which is a great as a whole.Luke Skywalker (Mark Hamall) and his allies have to save Hans Solo (Harrison Ford) who at the end of The Empire Strikes Back sealed in carbonite and in the clutches of the gangster Jabba the Hut. Luke and his allies Princess Leia (Carrie Fisher), Lando Calrissian (Billy Dee Williams), Chewbacca (Peter Mayhew), C3PO (Anthony Daniels) and R2D2 (Kenny Baker) set out to launch an audacious rescue of the coolest pirate in the galaxy. When that business was taken care of they go back to the Rebels where they have receive intelligence that the Empire were building an even more powerful death and that Darth Vader (David Prowse/James Earl Jones) and the Emperor (Ian McDiarmid) himself were overseeing the construction. The rebels have one chance of a surprise attack, which requires a ground assault on the forest moon Endor. This is led by Leia and Solo and they ally with the local, primitive tribe of Ewoks to destroy the shield protecting the Death Star. Luke is also on a personal mission, to try and save Darth Vader from the dark side to help defeat the Emperor, but the Emperor believes he can turn Luke. This leads to a mental and physical battle of the soul.Return of the Jedi is a very enjoyable film with great action sequence to match the first two. There is a very good light sabre fight and Luke's skills as a Jedi are truly expanded. There is a good battle which shows a futuristic force are having to fight a primitive race using spears and bows and arrows. There is a interesting battle of wits between Luke and the Emperor and shows this is more then a sci-fi action film, but a emotional battle for souls. There is excellent art direction in the film like in the first two film and there is more ambition in showing a wide range of alien race compared to The Empire Strike Back. But some alien designs were not as good as others, the Ewoks looked like teddy bears, whilst the Admiral for the Rebels looked ridiculous. The acting sticks to form with the other films, with Harrison Ford and James Earl Jones being the best performers and Ian McDiarmid was wonderfully slimy and evil as the main villain of the piece.Return of the Jedi is not as dark as The Empire Strikes Back, which in itself not much of a problem, but the including of the Ewoks made the film a little too childish. There were some interesting ideas to be had with them, but as stated they look like teddy bears that children would want to hug not a realistic alien race. As well the general plot of the film was basically very similar to first film, development of a Death Star, action set on Luke's home world and attack a weakness in the Empire's defends.Return of the Jedi is a very good and entertaining film which closes the circle of the Star Wars saga.
Following the critical and commercial success of the action comedy 21 Jump Street a sequel seem very likely and thanks to the direction of Phil Lord and Christopher Miller and an intelligent screenplay they have made a film that is on par with the original. 22 Jump Street is a very self-aware film, much like the first, lampooning the idea of sequels repeating the same plots and plot points, making fun of the film's larger budget and the general filmmaking process. The humour and jokes are constant with some fun visual gags and jokes making fun of plot points. This is a film that appreciates the audience's intelligence and Channing Tatum and Jonah Hill are still as a strong double act and the film focuses on the bromance between the pair. It is a fun smart film and the best R-rated comedy of 2014 so far.
After the success of the Matrix Trilogy the Wachowski brothers decided that their directional would be Speed Racer, an adaptation of the 60s Japanese Anime series. This was a project that was being kicked around a lot in Hollywood before the Walchowskis got involved and the two aimed to make their first family friendly film.Speed Racer (Emile Hirsch) is as his name suggests a racing driver who has a very first style of driving. He idealised his other brother Rex (Scott Porter) who died in a race after his name was discredited. Speed starts to prove himself as a racer, driving for his father's (John Goodman) team and he is quickly wanted by E.P. Arnold Royalton (Roger Allam), a major industrialist, to drive for his team. Speed is tempted by the offer but rejects it: Royalton sets out to destroys the Racer family's reputation, both publicly and financially. Speed get an offer from the police to help them in their investigation, to work with two other drivers: Racer X (Matthew Fox) and Taejo Togokahn (Rain) to take down Royalton and the cartel that runs the racing work.The Wackowskis have made no secret that they are fans of anime, Akira is one of their favourite films and was influence of The Matrix. Speed Racer itself was one of the first anime shows that was big outside Japan and started a trend of Westernising characters in Japanese cartoons. I personally remember seeing an updated version in the 90s which I enjoyed at the time. Many big name directors, actors and writers were attached to the project like Alfonso Cuarón, Gus Van Sant, J. J. Abrams, Johnny Depp and Vince Vaughn before the Wackowskis got involved. Whilst the Wackowskis are obviously passionate filmmakers, with The Matrix being one of the best sci-fi films made in the last 15 years, they had been torching their careers ever since, giving audiences the dubs of the Matrix sequels. They have sadly been unable to re-capture that magic that made them hot property in Hollywood. Whilst there are some decent action scenes actions scenes, like fights and some of the racing scenes, but this is nothing to their early work. Some of the other actions scenes were not so good because the action was too fast for the camera to catch and the whole point should have been to capture every moment possible. The Wackowskis were also too reliant on CGI, and not very good CGI. It could be argued that the Wackowskis were trying to give the film a cartoon feel, but it really did not work and the film looked to fake. It would have been better as a cartoon. Plot wise the film goes the wrong way: the film focus too much on the idea of corporate corruption and it should have been more on the idea of simple race fixing. A young audience is not going to be too interested in corporate corruption until they are older. The film is also too long, being over 2 hours long. This type of film should really have a running time of about 1 hour 45 minutes, give or take a few minutes. The Wackowskis attempted to make a live action cartoon: but what may work in a cartoon like the designs of cars and weapons do not work so well in film. The Wackowskis approach of direction was style over substance, with the directors focusing on camera tricks like swapping views between cars and letting people speaking sliding across the foreground whilst the action is going on behind them.The actors did not have much to do. Roger Allam offered a good performance as the slimy villain of the piece, but everyone else did not have much to do. Casting Susan Sarandon was pointless seeing she did not have much to do, whilst many other actors just had to keep a straight face with some of the dialogue they had to say. The character of Spritle (Paulie Litt) was one of the most annoying characters put to film recently. He was just a fat kid who acted stupid throughout the film with his pet chimp. They comic antics may have worked in a cartoon but it was horrid in a live action film and he was a highly unlikeable character. The character should have been cut or re-written.Finally they were reports of animal cruelty on the set of Speed Racer which is never forgivable.A fairly forgettable film.
When 13 Tzameti hit our screens it quickly be a favourite on the festival circuit, winning awards at Sundance and Venice. This obviously creates a buzz around a movie.Sebastian (George Babluani) was a 22-year-old construction worker whom employer (Olga Legrand) dies of a morphine overdose and his wife was unable to pay him. Sebastian finds instructions meant for his employer, so following them. They take him to the Parisian underworld where he is forced into a lethal game of Russian Routine.13 Tzameti was Géla Babluani's first film as a director and there is promise. He is stylist, using black and white cinematography to get effort. With moments with long phases there is a tense atmosphere during the Russian Routine scenes. The story itself was straightforward and Gela Babluani did focus on his characters. He recruited a strong cast, including his brother and their performances were not just with the dialogue, but with the face expressions and physical performance. You can feel the fear in the characters.But 13 Tzameti is far from being a perfect film. Some elements of the plot was predictable and you could easily guess who were going to face up to each other. The other major problem was the pacing at times was a bit too slow, particularly at the beginning. It needed to be speeded up.The best part of the film was the Russian Routine scenes. Gela Babluani is a director with serious potential.
After making Swepted Away and Revolver Guy Ritchie's career hit the rocks and his reputation ruined. Luckily for him he returned to what he was best at and took a back to basic approach.The film is a gangster story set in London. It tells of One-Two (Gerald Butler), who has a small crew, Mumbles (Idris Elba) and Handsome Bob (Tom Hardy). One-Two at the beginning of the film and ends up entering into a dodgy property deal where he owns money to Lenny (Tom Wilkingson), a major London gangster. Lenny basically tricks One-Two so that he could get the property and bribe the London council to let him build up the property and take all the profits. Lenny seeks to make a major deal with a Russian billionaire who owns a football club (I wonder who he is meant to be based on). The billionaire seeks to make a new concert hall very quickly, and wants to use Lenny's contacts to make sure that planning permission is granted. Lenny wants 7 Million Euros so he can do it. The billionaire has a dodgy accountant Stella (Thandie Newton), who asks One-Two to rob the Euros and takes a nice slice of the profits. At the same time the Russian also loans Lenny his lucky painting as a symbol of truth and as a thank you. Unforuately this painting is stolen by Lenny's rock star step-son Johnny Quid (Toby Kebbell). As the film goes on all these story lines become interlinked.Ritchie goes back to the types of films that made his name, which shows that he is really a one trick pony. This film felt a little be like a best of Ritchie. I felt that some of the sub-plot felt a bit tacked on, especially the part involving Johnny Quid and at times characters completely disappeared. The problem with Guy Ritchie is he thinks he is smarter then he really is and wants to be clever with his script. But at least for Ritchie he is in safe territory. Another problem is Ritchie is a mockney, a wannabe cockney, the kind of person most people look down on. However, there are positives. Most of the story does work, and some of the comedy is good. Fans of the original two Guy Ritchie film will love it for that. There is also a very good cast in the film. Tom Wilkington was the best as Lenny, the leading gangster, but most of the other actors gave very good performances. Butler and Newton are a very good actors. There were also fine set-pieces, especially the second raid against the Russians, and has a good comical fight in a sports shop. But at time it did feel like Ritchie took a style over substances approach. There is also an excellent soundtrack to the film, which is never a bad thing. If you are a rock fan you would enjoy it.I personally feel that Ritchie could have cut some times from the plot and it would have made a better film. But there are good performances, and some fun bits and if you are a Guy Ritchie film would will enjoy this flick. A decent attempt.
Trust is an uncomfortable watch, but it is meant to be as it examines how a teenager can be gloomed on the internet and the effects it has on a family in what is a passion project by David Schwimmer, formerly Ross Gellar from Friends.Annie Cameron (Liana Liberato) is a typical middle class teenager from the suburbs of Chicago who has just turned 14. She is trying out for her school's volleyball and has loving parents in the form of advertising executive Will (Clive Owen) and interior designer Lynn (Catherine Keener). Annie has also befriend a boy on a teenage chat room, Charlie. But as they get closer Charlie's age keeps raising and when Will and Lynn takes Annie's brother (Spencer Kurnutt) to university she finally meets him at a mall: but it turns out Charlie is a 35-year-old man (Chris Henry Coffey) who manipulates her into spending time with him and rapes her in a motel room. When Annie's family find out their relationship deteriorate as Annie believes Charlie loves her and as the FBI investigation keeps leading to dead ends Will starts to hunt for sex offenders and struggles with his anger.Trust is a terrific film and it could have fallen apart if the acting was weak: but fortunately the acting was of a high standard. Schwimmer took a risk casting an actress was really 14 at the time. Liberato gave a brutally honest performance, from a decent sporty girl who was not even into the popular girls activities of who is the biggest slut to becoming blind to what happened to and becomes more bitter and angry towards everyone around her. I really hope to see more from her because is a real talent and you will feel for her situation that is all too real.Owen is really good at playing an everyman, a man struggling to deal with something no father could imagine and gives a believable performance. So does Kenner even if her role is smaller. Coffey did empathise the creepy elements of his character a little to much, not helped by his hair but he did bring out his manipulated side as he makes Annie do something she did not want to do. Even the younger actors were very strong throughout and Schwimmer got the best out of everyone.The writing and direction felt real and that something like this could happen. It was awkward watching the scene when Charlie convicts Annie to spend time with her, playing on her maturity and the relationship they formed. But after, it is meant to be awkward and the film is really good at playing on the nature of these situations. It is easy as an outsider to say runaway, stop contacting him, he doesn't love you but it is so much different within the relationship as it had built up, slowly becoming more explicit and she ends up thinking she had something surprise. I liked that Annie was made to be a happy, normal girl, not someone who is isolated, unhappy or has troubles of some sort and how easy a situation like this could affect anyone. Everything involving Annie felt like it can really happen.Schwimmer does a great job directing. He shows the internet conversations through coloured text and was actually interesting. The family scenes feel genuine throughout, from the beginning during Annie's birthday where the family are having fun to the parents not knowing how to deal with Annie and her angry to the awkward Halloween dinner. Schwimmer did not shy away from the sexual assault and tenseness of the situation whilst not actually having to show the act. The direction was perfect and did not cross the line. There is also a major theme of the sexualisation of youth, starting with the older teenage girls wanting sex, Will's advertising campaign, to an poster in the mall just before Annie meets Charlie.There are some moments which defy logic, mainly to do with the FBI investigation. I can understand that Schwimmer and the writers did not want to bog the film down or take focus away from family drama, but I doubt the FBI or the police would tell the family so much about the investigation and leads to big plot points. It felt forced and I would have thought there would have been a family liaison officer for the family. But this is minor consider how earnest the film was about it message.Trust serves as a powerful cautionary tale and I believe that it should be a film shown in schools to serve as a warning. It is a tough watch at times, but it is an important film and I hope for more from both Schwimmer as a director and Liberato as an actress.
Continuing the Bourne series seems like an impossible task: The Bourne Ultimatum had rounded up Jason Bourne's story line with Blackfaire being shut down and both Matt Damon and Paul Greengrass refused to return to the series. But of course studio filmmaking is a business and no studio really wants to get a money making franchise go, so writer Tony Gilroy was promoted to direct a fourth entry and an new star, Jermey Renner, took the risk of replacing Damon in the lead action role.Jason Bourne and journalist Simon Ross (Paddy Considine) has cause a storm and forced the CIA into making reckless decisions and mistakes. Eric Byer (Edward Norton), the director of a clandestine operation for the CIA and Department of Defence decides the best cause of action is the eliminate the various projects and agents similar Blackbriar and Trendstone operations. Two victims of this decision are Aaron Cross (Renner), an Outcome Black ops operative who is training in Alaska and Dr. Martha Shearing (Rachel Weisz), a bio-chemist working on a Government project. Both end up needing each other, Shearing needs Cross to survive, Cross needs Shearing to supply him with pills (known as chems) to keep his higher levels of intelligence and physical abilities as Byer with the backing of the intelligence and military community hunting for them.For an action thriller The Bourne Legacy is a very talky film, people talking about operational statuses and missions, the interlinking of the events from The Bourne Ultimatum and what the follow up was and the scientific explanations how the pills work. They is little action in the first half of the film, with only the drone strike and some The Grey like scenes in the beginning. The other set pieces were an attack on a house and the chase in Manilla. The action was too infrequency. It was clear that Gilroy wanted to capture the style and magic of Greengrass' direction but his pacing was too slow. The elements were there, the CIA agents monitoring events and running the operation in a control centre, the use of computers to find out background information and hiding in crowds. It is great that the annoying shaky cam has gone but the action is still too quickly cut making fist fights how to follow. The shoots out and the chase in Manila were better and entertaining. But there is a lack of an equal to Cross like Bourne had in the previous films, i.e. The Professor and Desh.The Bourne Legacy has more of sci-fi story because the CIA are genetically modifying agents to be mentally and physically then regular agents which does not mesh well with the more realistic world and tone of the previous films. It seems more like the story for a series of Alias or in a comic book then a Bourne film. In the previous film it was implicated that Bourne's abilities came simply from training and mental conditioning and brainwashing, not genetic enhancements. As Empire Magazine said in their review it that it boarders on parody that Cross needs pills to prevent him turning stupid.Renner, Norton and Weisz were all excellent in their roles and they did give the film their all. Renner is very convincing as an action hero, having the right build and is a very talented actor and Norton and Weisz are top professions. I was worried that in the trailers Norton and Weisz seemed a bit stiff and that the film was just a paycheque to them but they proved their talents as actors.The Bourne Legacy has its moments, is entertaining at places but it would have worked better as a standalone film. It is a 3 out of 5 star film and Bond is still king of the spy action genre.
The first Star Wars film was released it was a massive success audience were craving for more. George Lucas promised more and when The Empire Strikes Back was released in 1980, it was not just a film release, it was an event. Despite fears that a sequel would never be as good as the original and the film technically under-performance this is one of the few sequels that was better then the original.Despite the Rebel Alliance destroying the Death Star and the universe now safe from the ultimate weapon the Empire had gone on the offensive against the rebels, hounding them out of the bases. They are led by Darth Vader (David Prowse/James Earl Jones), the most fearsome commander for the Empire. On the ice planet Hoth, the Rebels have to fled when the Empire's forces attack. Within the Rebel camp Luke Skywalker (Mark Hamall) receives a message from Obi-Wan "Ben" Kenobi (Alec Guinness) from beyond the grave to go to the planet Dagobah and learn the ways of the Jedi from a powerful master Yoda (Frank Oz). His friends Hans Solo (Harrison Ford), Princess Leia (Carrie Fisher), Chewbacca (Peter Mayhew) and 3CPO (Anthony Daniels) have to escape Hoth and end up being chased by Darth Vader. They set out for safety to the Cloud City led by Hans' friend Lando Calrissian (Billy Dee Williams). Vader himself becomes obsessed about finding the Millennium Falcon, and Luke who becomes a major threat to the Empire.Lucas did the smartest thing he could with this sequel, he took more of a back sit. It is known that he is not the best screenwriter and director in the world, but is he a great producer and ideas man. He came up with the basic story idea and wrote some of the key scenes, but it was Leigh Brackett and Lawrence Kasdan who wrote most of the screenplay and Irvin Kershner was brought in to direct. This team made a brilliant sequel expanding on the ideas of the original ideas of the film, from the mystical powers of the Jedi to the multiple worlds and creatures that are created to how the Empire function, which was a cross between the Roman Empire and Nazi Germany. Brackett and Kasdan with Kershner's direction were able to interweave multiple story lines in a space set epic. Like the original the Empire Strikes Back was able to use many sci-fi ideas into the film, multiple alien races, psychic powers, grant designs of futuristic weapons and warfare and a setting crossing fighting a dictatorship and general lawlessness. Kershner was able to make a atmospheric film which a darker in tone, particularly in the third act. He shot some of the best action sequences in the whole series, like the battle of Hoth, and the fight between Luke Skywalker and Darth Vader was not just an excellent fight but also brooding experience, filled with tension and is one of the best sequences in film history. As well as it being the best Star Wars film it is also Kershner best film by a long way. Despite the darker tone Kershner was still able to lighten the film enough and allow the audience to relax with some well timed humour.The characters are developed even further. Darth Vader is even more menacing then he was in the first film with a dark ambition and secret, making him one of the best screen villains ever. He oozes a dark charisma and he is as ruthless as Hitler, Stalin and Mao when it came to military command and tactics. The relationship between Leia and Hans Solo also improves, from hating each other to discovering their true feelings. Luke too grows from a competent commander to a man who has to discovery his destiny, but also prone to his emotions, when he needed to master them. Billy Dee Williams is an excellent addition to the series and his character represent a moral dualities that inflecting the world they live in. They is good acting all round, with James Earl Jones and Harrison Ford being of the most worthy note.A must see for film fans everywhere.
A rule for Star Trek films is that odd numbered Trek are weak compared to the even numbered ones. But the third Trek film is seen as one of the stronger odd numbered films and other suffers because it comes from the back of fans' favourite Wrath of Khan.After the events of Wrath of Khan the crew of the enterprise return to Earth where they find out that the Enterprise is being decommissioned and the crew is going to be reassigned after extended shore leave. They are ordered not to talk about the events involving Khan and the creation of the Genius plane. But Spock's father, Sarek (Mark Lenard) demands hi s son's body be returned to Vulcan and Dr. McCoy (DeForest Kelley) has Spock's spirit in his head. On Genius, Lt. Saavik (Robin Curtis) and Kirk's son David Marcus (Merritt Butrick) investigate the planet for signs of life as a Klingon Commander (Christopher Lloyd) sees the Genius Device as a power shifting weapon.In comparison to Wrath of Khan, The Search for Spock is not as strong on a thematic level or with its sets/special effects: but makes for it by simply being a fun adventure. The Search for Spock has a lighter tone to Khan, being a little more humour and Leonard Nimoy keeps a fast pace. Nimoy finely balances the three stories and linking them together.Despite the lighter tone, there are some moments of darkness and emotion, giving the film some heart and more emotional pull, especially for long time fans.In the realms of special effects Search for Spock does have some excellent model work, showing the scale of the ships and giving them a sense of physicality. But the internal settings do sadly look cheap and outdated, such as the guard station to McCoy's cell.The other major criticism is the actor, but acting has never been Star Trek's start suit. But we still get to see the strength of the characters relationship, their bond together and Shatner gets some emotional moments with his showing of pain. Whilst Lloyd did play a one note villain, he still injected character in the ruthless Klingon and he is a better actor then Richardo Montalban who was a hammy actor as Khan.The Search for Spock is a solid follow-up to Wrath of Khan, successfully continuing the story and not being too bound by overly complex technobabble. It is a fun, lighted aware.7.5/10
Heroes is a great show, a shinning example of American culture and how television is challenge cinema for quality. Heroes has been seen as a television version of X-Men, but hey, that's why I like it.The show focus on a good of people who are starting to discover that they have superpowers: these including flying and healing to bending time and space and absorbing other powers. In the first season there was a major story arcs involving stopping New York from being destroyed, avoid and stop a serial killer called Sylar (Zachary Quinto) and avoid capture by a mysterious government organisation called the 'Company'.The show is very entertaining, with lots of drama and action and a little comedy, but also treats the audience with some intelligence; having many complex concepts and ideas and hidden clues, sub-plots, complex characters which makes people care for them. It's set in many locations, New York, Las Vegas, Los Angeles, Texas, Japan, India, and in the second series the show has added Latin America, Cork and Japan in 1671. The show is brilliant written, with plans to make five series and then stop. There are many interlinking plots and unlike a show like Lost, does raise too many questions and actually answers them. It also has some like comic book easter eggs such as a cameo by Stan Lee and Jeph Loeb placing some of his works in the show, e.g. Hulk Grey. It is a well acted show, from young stars like Noah Gray-Cabey and Hayden Panettiere to more seasoned veterans like Greg Grunberg and Zachary Quinto. The show has also attracted some good guest stars, such as Malcolm McDowell, Christopher Eccleston and George Takei. Heroes is also shot with a comic book in mind. The art shown in the programme is comic book art and any writing, such as place names or subtitles is done in the style of comic book writing. It is more successful then the Hulk movie at using the comic book style and doesn't overdo it.Heroes is great television, 10/10 and I hope for more shows of this quality to come in the near future.
The Kingdom is basically an action film set in Saudi Arabia, but hell, I liked it.The Kingdom stars on an exciting note; a group of terrorists dressed as state police attack a US compound in Saudi Arabia, shooting dead a number of residents before blowing up two bombs. The Saudi investigation seems to be going nowhere fast. A group of FBI agents, led up Special Agent Ronald Fleury (Jamie Foxx), are sent by the American government to help with the investigation. However, when the US team arrive they encounter problems, during the investigation they suffer a hostile reception from the Saudi police, and the Americans don't like how they were running it. It takes a lot of effort for the American show that they way is the best way to run the investigation.From an action adventure point of view, The Kingdom, delivers. They some very good set-pieces, like the explosions at the compound, the attack on the FBI on the motorway and the gun-battle at Suweidi. Some people have criticised the film for its politics, namely being anti-Arab, and they may have a point. It is critical of the Saudi regime, for being hostile to outsiders. I personally don't like the Saudi regime because they are no more then a tin-pot dictatorship which is holding the world at ransom, suppress the rights of its people and are not doing to stop Al-Qaida. There are still some good Arab characters like Colenial Al-Ghazi and shows a reformed terrorist. I think that the film could have played a more on the politics, both the domestic politics and the international relations between America and Saudi Arabia. Both doesn't get much of a look in after the half-way mark. The film could have looked at why people would have become terrorists and issues in Saudi Arabia. This is a fairly right-wing film, but the screenwriter, Matthew Michael Carnahan, did a film which looked at the War on Terror from a Liberal prospective, Lions for Lambs. The acting was solid, Jamie Foxx is normally good, it has the lovely Jennifer Garner and Jason Bateman who adds some comic relief. Peter Berg also shows that he is a director with potential. He made Friday Night Lights which was good and he had recently made Hancock. He was also asked to make X-Men 3 which he declined, but he would have done a better job then Brett Ratner.The Kingdom is a decent film, and is very good on a action viewpoint.
This movie is one of my favourite films and a perfect example on how to make a dark comedy. The plot of the film was two American generals decide to attack the Soviet Union in a pre-emptive nuclear strike. This attacks start a major crisis in the American and Soviet governments, the U.S. president and most of the join chiefs did not want to start a war and matters take on more urgency when the Soviet ambassador tell the Americans that the Soviets had just made a doomsday device that would destroy the world if the Soviet Union was attacked. The film was originally meant to be a serious movie, but Stanley Kubrick felt with the way the film developed it would work better as dark comedy. The film starts very seriously but the comedy develops throughout the film, using some brilliant lines, good sight gags and great performances and some jokes such as the name Jack D. Ripper. Peter Sellers was great as the American President, Captain Mandrake, an RAF officer who was on loan to the USAF and Dr. Strangelove, a German nuclear scientist who was working for America. He was meant to play the B-52 bomber pilot as well, but he was going through a divorce at the time, so could only do THREE roles. The film has be referred and parodied in many comedy programmes, especially the Simpsons. Some of my person favourite bits in the film are the telephone conversations between the US President and the Soviet Premier, Dr. Strangelove talking the President and the Join Chiefs at the end of the film. This is excellent viewing and really funny. Kubrick was a master of his trade.
With a gross of over $290 Million, The Blind Side made 10 times it profit from it's budget $29 Million. It became one of the most successful sports films ever and appealed to new cinema crowd, the Bible-belt, middle America crowd.The Blind Side tells the story of Michael Oher (Quinton Aaron), a poor African-American teenager from Memphis whom mum was drug-addict and he slept on the sofa of a family friend. He was enrolled into a private Christian School, with the promise that he could make a good American football player, but lacks the academic ability. After being kicked out from the projects, Michael is taken in by Leigh Anne Tuohy (Sandra Bullock) and her family. They give him a home and adopt the man out of Christian charity. When Michael's grades pick up and he shows his skills as a player some top universities show interest in giving him a scholarship: but he still needs to raises his grades to ensure he can get into university.The main reason why The Blind Side succeeded with the Christian crowd was because it shows a Republican, Christian family in a positive light. They were shown as a family who took in Michael because it was they Christian ideal of charity (the better aspects of Christianity). Bullock plays Leigh Anne as a hard-as-nails, tough mother, protecting her family and is shown as a more liberal minded Republican. This was a film that also shows how rich white suburban community are completely segregated from the poor inner-city, predominately black areas, with two different cultures. The acting in the film was decent, with Bullock being the stand out performers, winning herself her first Oscar. Whilst her performance is good showing herself to feisty, yet funny, it was not the best of the year: I think Saoirse Ronan was the best performer in her role in The Lovely Bones. Aaron was decent as the gently giant, a person who is shy but has an inter-depth: but his character is a cliché.John Lee Hancock writes and directs this film. Whilst the direction is decent, pretty standard with this type of film, The Blind Side follows a typical formula, with Michael improving his grades, starting out in American Football, improving at American Football, attempting to get into university and a final ordeal. There are montage scenes and some elements of the film felt similar to previous American Football films like We Are Marshall and Friday Night Lights, where the team starts out poorly but quickly improve. But Hancock knows what he is doing, he does not try to be too adventurous with his direction and works well with the standard formula.The film has been met with criticism that it took the charity of a white family to allow a black person to succeed: but that was the nature of the story, there was not a lot Hancock could have done. It should be more a commentary on the situation. There was of course the theme of Christian charity in the film, but this was done one a individual level. But a problem with the film was that Michael Oher was basically a secondary character in his own film, playing second fiddle to Sandra Bullock. Whilst the film could be seen as a criticism of the state education system, where there is a lack of funding and teachers did not care. This is of course a problem with schools that are in poor inner-city areas that affect schools in many country. And that a student could improve in a private system. The message is dodgy, but there is a valid point. But a more worrying aspect of the film is the treatment of black characters. In the film there are either gang members, drug addicts or militant activists. There is no character that would be more grounded and realistic. Even Michael was shown to be stereotypical as the gentle giant who was not very academic.Overall it is what it is and a decent film for it. But it was not worthy of a best picture nod.
Over the years the Harry Potter series has become a powerhouse, making billions for the publishers and film studios, making J.K. Rowling the richest woman in Britain and becoming one of the biggest film series ever. With Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince director David Yates offers Harry Potter fans a fine addition to the series (but not as strong as his previous attempt Order of the Phoenix).After the events of Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix the wizardry world has to face the fact that Lord Voldemort has returned after Harry fought him in the Ministry of Magic. After the events Harry lost his only link to his family, godfather Sirius Black. The film starts with Professor Dumbledore asking Harry to help him recruit Horace Slughorn (Jim Broadband), who knows an important secret about Voldemort's past. Dumbledore asks Harry to get close to Slughorn who likes recruit favourites who he believes will become successful. Dumbledore himself is on the hunt for Voldemort. Within the Death Eater camp, Voldemort has ordered Draco Malfoy to kill Dumbledore. If he fails Voldemort will kill him. Out of love for her son, Narcissa Malfoy (Helen McCrory), asks Snape to help him. He makes an unbreakable vow to ensure it. At Hogworts there are a number of sub-plots. There is a love triangle between Ron, Hermione and Lavender Brown (Jessie Cave). Harry himself has fallen for Ron's younger sister Ginny (personally I think he should have stuck with Cho Chang). As well Quidditch also makes a return in the film universe.Within the Harry Potter film series this is mid-ranking. Prisoner of Azkaban and Order of the Phoenix are better. There are problems, it's has a weaker plot to most of the books, too long, has too many sub-plots and lacks action. At times it is slow a little boring. But there are a number of strong points to the film. There is excellent acting. Daniel Radcliff and Rupert Grint have both improved a lot since the first two films. Radcliff is good on the serious front and Grint is excellent in the comedy area. Michael Gambon offers a subtle performance as Dumbledore, much like he has done in the previous films. Tom Felton comes into his own as Malfoy, giving the character more depth and power then he has in the previous films. Alan Rickman is good as always. Helena Bonham Carter was also perfect casting as the villainous Bellatrix Lestrange, and I wish she had more to do. She is a great actress. The only weak link is Emma Watson who is a pretty wooden actress. There are great visuals in film and the actions scenes that are in the film are very well done. The film is dark and is almost like a horror films, offer a couple of scares. But film does lack some depth on some characters like Fenrir Greyback who had a much bigger role in the book. There are questions about free will, right and wrong and how far someone should respect someone orders.It a solid film, one of the better blockbusters of 2009 (but 2009 is a weak year). Hopefully the Deathly Hallows will be better.7.5 out of 10
Robert E. Howard was a popular fiction writer back in the 20s and 30s and his popular character Conan the Barbarian has made it onto the screen two times so far (with a re-boot on the way). His other popular character Solomon Kane has also made it onto in was is a mixed bag of film.Starting in 1600 Solomon Kane (James Purefoy), is a ruthless English soldier/mercenary whom live is bloodshed and violence. But after raiding a North Africa city Satan and his servants declare that they want Solomon's soul. Solomon escapes and attempts to live a peaceful live in a monastery and renounces violence. But a new evil is raising in England, lead by a strange demonic person, Malachi (Jason Flemyng) who is creating an army and forcing the weak into slavery. When a family that Solomon was with is murdered and their daughter Meredith (Rachel Hurd-Wood) is captured, Solomon sets out to rescue her and stop this new force.Solomon Kane is basically a B-Movie with a little bit of a budget: but there is nothing wrong with that because B-Movies can be fun. There are good moments in the film, in the beginning there is a atmospheric, horror scene with creatures in mirrors jumping out and attacking the soldiers and there is a really well done fight scene when Solomon has to be violence again in a snowy forest; reminding me of a similar scene in Gladiator. This is the kind of the stuff you want to see in a film like this and CGI and blood-letting are of a good standard. There is a strange trend in recent years for historical films with a fantasy or supernatural edge, starting with the Pirates of the Caribbean trilogy, becoming adult with 300 and continues with films like Solomon Kane, Black Death, Jonah Hex and Season of the Witch. To a lesser extent are also more low budget, violence historical films like Centurion and Ironclad being made.Michael J. Bassett is a typical nuts and bolts director, he can move a film along quickly, he can do a few decent actions but do not expect anything that original from him. Solomon Kane attempts to be a more adult fantasy film, with willingness to show more violence. But there are a number of clichéd scenes, from Solomon becoming a drank when he thinks his mission has failed, when he is crucified he gains the strength to free himself and then falls on muddy, watery ground with a heavy rain falling when he screams in pain. The musical score by Klaus Badelt (who is a good composer, doing the music for Pirates of the Caribbean: Curse of the Black Pearl) is really over-the-top at times and really adds to clichéd nature of the film. Scenes like when Solomon speaks to the God looking up when he asks if violence is all God wants from him does not help manners. Dan Lausten grey colour pallet works really well for the best fight seen in the forest, but much of the action happens at night and you end up not seeing very much.The story itself is a little all over the place, starring out as something epic, Solomon Kane versus Satan, to a story about Solomon wanting to find peace, to an evil force taking over much of England and Solomon stopping them and saving a girl who he hardly knew. I would to have like to have seen Solomon battle Satan's forces more or how he would have used his skills for good instead of personal greed.Purefoy is most famous for playing Marc Anthony in Rome and he was seen as a potential action star: he was cast to play V in V for Vendetta but actually walked out during filming and was seen as a potential Bond. So playing Solomon is a good way to practice for bigger roles. He does decent enough job and Max von Sydow and Pete Postlethwaite always offer their best (though Postlethwaite should have learn his learn after making Dragonheart). But other actors were not particularly good, just going through the motions. But seeing the type of film Solomon Kane you cannot blame them for having some fun.I know that Solomon Kane is not a historical film, but I will mention a couple of little errors in the film. The first is that the ships were flying the Union Jack, a flag that did not exist till 1606 when England and Scotland had the same king. The other is that Solomon is staying a monastery, when most of them were destroyed by Henry VIII and they tend to be Catholic institutions yet Solomon acts more like a Protestant/Puritan.
What do you get if you mix together the Wizard of Oz, the Chronciles of Narnia, Spirited Away, Alice in Wonderland, The Amber Spyglass and Tim Burton? You get Coraline, a big screen adaptation of Neil Gaiman's novella.The last film based on the work by Neil Gaiman made the very enjoyable Stardust. Whilst Coraline has a similar theme, it is so very different at the same time.Coraline Jones (Dakota Fanning) is a young adventurous girl who has just moved to the rainy state of Oregon. Her parents (Teri Hatcher and John Hodgman) are writers and are too busy to spend time with their daughter or do the activities she wants to. Her mum is cold and irritable at times whilst her dad is kind-hearted but a bit hopeless. The neighbours include a local boy Wybie (Robert Bailey Jr.), the formers actresses Miss Spink and Miss Forcible (Jennifer Saunders and Dawn French) and the gymnast Mr. Bobinsky (Ian McShane) who training mice to do jumping tricks. Coraline is bored, frustrated and ignored, but she discoveries a magic door to another world. There it seems perfect, with her parents doing anything she wants, like cook nice meals and see magical performances by the neighbours. But every time she wakes up in her own bed and she has to face to reality of her own world. She longs to go back to the Other World, but she gets warned by the black cat (Keith David) that the world was not as it seems, and she soon discovers that it a very dark place indeed.The animation is beautiful, with fantastic puppet, stop-motion which can rival Aardman Animation. There are lovely subtle touch and the designs of sets and characters which makes the film worth seeing in itself. It clear that by the style of storytelling and animation that the director Henry Selick was from the Tim Burton school. Even the opening is like a Tim Burton film. The story itself is wonderfully original, but because it Gothic feel and be scary at places it is not advised for young children to see this film. It is a good to see a young girl as the lead protagonist.The voice acting is good. Dakota Fanning shows why she is one of best child actresses around. Teri Hatcher is good and shows her range in this film. It's good to see French and Saunders in an American film and carrying on her double act with a love-hate relationship. I also enjoyed Keith David as the cat. But the performance I enjoyed the most of Ian McShane who had excellent comedy skills and very different to his role in Deadwood. His character's appearance also reminded me of Dr. Robotnik.I saw the film in 3D which made for increasing viewing and was stylist, but the novelty worn off because of the power of the story-telling. It would easy enough to watch it in 2D.This is the first animated film I have seen in the cinema since The Increadibles, and it was a good choice. It good to see an animated film made out of love and not just a cheap cash-in.A lovely, 4 out of 5.
Loosely based on the memoir of journalist Lynn Barber, An Education was considered one of the best films of 2009 (whether you agree with that statement is another matter). It was a film that was Carey Mulligan's break out role and earned a surprise Oscar Nod for Best Film.Jenny (Mulligan) is a 16-year-old A-Level student in Twickenham in 1961. Her parents and teachers see that she is intelligent and want her to go to Oxford University because she certainly has the intelligent and the ability. But she longs for more, wanting to explore her interest in French films, music and language and break out from her dull suburban existing. Her fantasy is fulfil when she meets David (Peter Sarsgaard), who takes her to a world of culture, visiting classical concerts, jazz clubs, high art and travel. But slowly her ambitions and education starts to wade and it seems that David is not what he seems.An Education is a character piece about a young girl who obviously wants to expand and avoid a dull life but ends up going off the rails in a very realistic way. She is not a girl who goes into a world of drugs, sex and alcohol, but simply meets a man she likes and ends up putting her education and future aside. She questions her teachers who thinks that if she goes to university and ends up being stuck in a job and her father (Alfred Molina) who sees university as a way to gain prestige and a way to find a husband. Jenny is a girl who is pushed her father into many things like playing the cello and defensive against anyone who shows "no ambition", just at a time when she is able to become a rebellious teen.An Education is a very well acted film and Mulligan is very well cast. I am personally against actors who are much older then teenagers playing a teenager but this role this required a certain amount of maturity, a character is intelligential, wise behold her years but also installs a youthful passion and the rebellious nature of a teen longing for independent from her parents. David is a bit of a creep, a man who picked up a schoolgirl in uniform and taking her to places whilst stealing from people and playing on people's prejudices. Molina is very good playing a naïve father, thinking about his daughter's education before her emotional state. He is a typical middle-class father, distance and thinking of money, with focused goals, but not completely heartless. I am surprised Jenny's parents did not question why Jenny's boyfriend was so much older then her, I personally think if a bloke above the age of 19 goes out with a 16-year-old then it is just weird. Cara Seymour does well as the more sympathetic but passive parent and there is a fine older cast. Emma Thompson is perfectly dislikeable as the school's headmistress, speaking anti-Semitic nonsense and thinks about the school's imagine more then trying to convict a student about the right course and Rosamund Pike shows herself playing a character is perfectly nice but a bit of a dimwit. I do however think Sally Hawkins was wasted, she was only in the film for a minute and that they filmmakers may as well have gotten a completely unknown actress (and this is from someone who rates Hawkins).Lone Scherfig directs with a great pace. Her direction is natural, letting the story unfold and keeping everything seem real. The lighting and colour was not altered too much to prevent the film from being too dark or too light: it was Jenny's normal existence and Paris was made out to be a brighter in comparison. The early sixties is really well captured onto film and looked at issues involving sex politics, that even if a woman has a great education her place is still in the home to have a family or how uncaring teachers can be, that they only focus on exceptional students, not helping normal students who just a little helping hand to fulfil their potential. There is also the hint of racism, with Danny using black immigrants for their own ends and even characters like Jenny's dad making a causal anti-Semitic statement.Weirdly An Education does end abruptly and feels a little rushed compared the rest of the film that does feel like it was set over a few months. The end skips over what seems like 18 months in under five minutes.An Education is an interest coming of age story, showing that Middle-class people have issues and that suburban live is not completely blissful. It is good to see that British teenagers are shown to have personal problems but that they do not become juvenile delinquents like in Hollyoaks.
Richard Curtis is known as one of the greats of British comedy and rom-coms, creating characters like Blackadder and Mr Bean and writing and directing Love Actually. Curtis has announced he is planning retire from directing and he takes a more serious turn with his 'last' film, About Time.Tim Lake (Domhnall Gleeson) is a 21-year-old Cornish man who is unlucky in love and lives his dad (Bill Nighy), Mom (Lindsay Duncan), kooky sister Kit Kat (Lydia Wilson) and Uncle Desmond (Richard Cordery), the least intelligent man you will ever meet. After a disastrous New Year's Eve party Tim's father tells his son all the male in the family can travel back in time, all they need to do is go into a dark spot, concentrate and then they can go back to any point of his life. When Tim finds out about his powers he moves to London to start his career as a barrister and find a girlfriend. He finds his soul-mate in the form of Mary (Rachel McAdams) and he does everything he can to win her over.Despite About Time's billing as a romantic-comedy it's really a drama that has some comedy in it. The comedy for the most part is gentle in nature, revolving about some witty line, awkward moments and character interactions. Gleeson does let out his inner Hugh Grant, as he's awkward and easily flustered before being able to go back in time to rewrite his mistakes. Much of the humour comes from the time traveling antics that Gleeson.About Time does have a fine cast supporting cast, but they're used to various success. Tom Hollander was the best as a highly aggressive, easily angered playwright who was the most fouled mouth of all the characters. Nighy is his professional self, as a more restrained character, while still having some decent lines. But Wilson's character can easily be defined as kooky or quirky and the character of Uncle Desmond is a one joke character that he is not particularly smart and he could have been cut out of the film.At times About Time did seem like it was going to have a theme about fate and destiny and that some actions are pre-determined, no matter what is altered. A case in point is when Tim keeps meeting with his old crash played Margot Robbie. But all of that is undercut, particularly when Tim can manipulate events and when he is having to court Mary over and over again, coming across as the time-traveling stalker.Curtis has had a great career as a writer but as a director, he sometimes lacks restraint with About Time, a film that ends up being too long and overly sentimental. Curtis wanted to emotionally manipulate the audience into his way of thinking as he lays on his message of living life to the full, particularly in the final act.About Time does struggle to find a narrative as it starts out to be rom-com with a sci-fi twist, before turning into a romance and finally being a story about Tim with his dad. There are twist and subplots on the way, with some clever concepts and unique looks on time travel: but a good 20 to 30 minutes could have been cut as the end just drags and drags.About Time is a solid effort from Curtis as it has a top cast with Gleeson and McAdams having strong chemistry together, which is what we want and expect from a romantic film. The film does offer some laughs and a tranquil piano heavy score from Nick Laird-Clowes with some decent pop music in the soundtrack. But this is a film that is just too long and where many of the ideas could have effectively been done in a few short films.Please visit www.entertainmentfuse.com
In 2008 Pierre Morel directed a little thriller called Taken that became a real hit film in the US and Europe and made Liam Neeson into an action star. So there was a lot riding on and being expected from Morel for his follow up film, From Paris with Love. Sadly for him Morel was not as well like by audiences and disappointed at the box-office, but I personally think it is better then Taken.James Reese (Jonathan Rhys Meyers) is the personal aide to U.S. Ambassador to France and does some small missions for the CIA, like planting bugs and changing number places. His lives with his girlfriend, Caroline (Kasia Smutniak) who becomes his fiancée. Reese ends up getting assigned his first big mission for the CIA and gaining a partner, the CIA's best, Charlie Wax (John Travolta). They are meant to break a Chinese drugs rings, but Wax's methods are unorthodox to say the least.Morel knew how to direct an action sequence and there are plenty of fun, Hong Kong style gunfights and a 300 like fight scene when Wax beats up a Chinese gang in slow-motion. It what you want expect from an action comedy and if anything, I wanted it to be a little more over the top and more action. Morel made sure that From Paris With Love was a fast paced film, but there is a tonal shift from quite a comic film to some more serious and run-in-the-mill: it is still entertainment but I wanted an action-comedy all the way through.John Travolta is wonderfully over-the-top and from the trailers you expect someone whom approach to espionage is shoot first and ask questions later. He is a man who is as subtle as a brick to the face. But slowly Wax becomes more of an investigator, when he should have been a man of action. I'm not saying he should not be incompetent but he's a man of action; he would let other people do all the technical stuff and he would go on the Intel they give him. Rhys Meyers is decent enough, being a young man wanting more and become a proper agent and it is a classic story of be careful of what you wish for. Rhys Meyers was decent at producing an American Accent, but as a New York accent there was nothing remarkable. Reese and Wax are basically a chalk and cheese pairing, on being a man of action and willing to do anything to get the mission done, whilst the other is a man who plays by the rules. They are pretty much the espionage version of Riggs and Murtaugh from Lethal Weapon.There are some practical problems with this film. Of course it is action film, but it is set in a semi-serious version of reality and you can not imagine that people not ask why a man is carrying a vase all over the place and I am sure a lift full of tourists would notice two men snorting some white powder (I think you can guess what it is. Also if a secret agent wants to bring an item like a gun he could easily put it into a diplomatic bag. But I would say the cocaine scene upsets me more.From Paris With Love is a silly film and sure that Luc Besson and Morel were hoping to turn the film into a series like Lethal Weapon. But the box-office return would not justify it.
After On Her Majesty's Service Secret disappointed at the box-office, despite revisionist reviews and viewers considered it one best and most emotional Bond films, Sean Connery was begged to return to the series. Diamonds Are Forever is his last official Bond film and the last official Bond film to feature SPECTRE and Bond's nemesis, Ernst Stavro Blofeld (unless you count the disgraceful cameo in For Your Eyes Only).After a personal mission of vengeance for his decreed wife against Blofeld (Charles Gray), MI6's best agent, James Bond (Connery) is asked to investigate a diamond smuggling operation, leading him on a trial from South Africa, to Amsterdam and Las Vegas and taking on a funeral director, Las Vegas casinos, a billionaire tycoon and two gay hit men.As well as the return of Connery, Guy Hamilton, the director of Goldfinger and Goldfinger's singer Shirley Bassey. Diamonds Are Forever starts off really strong as Bond beats up a lot of contacts to get to Blofeld, including strangling a woman with bikini top which was surprisingly dark. The fight in the film was early one in the film as a Bond fights a man in a lift: it was a tight, close quarters affair that was well choreographed and edited.The first half of the film was the better half as it was a serious yet fun affair, featuring a decent enough plot and some down to earth gadgets. But as the film continued into Las Vegas Diamonds Are Forever becomes a more camper, light hearted affair. The setting, set design and the moon buddy chase basically become elements to be used in the first Austin Powers film. Diamonds Are Forever is a more comic, cheesy film, with emphasis on silly comedy and moments like Bond fighting two women called Bambi and Thumper and the portrayed of two flamboyant henchmen. Even the Bond girl, Tiffany Case (Jill St. John) starts off as a competent woman to becoming a ditzy idiot: it is a drastic character change. This was mainly because audiences at the time did not response well to a darker, more serious and sombre Bond that George Lazenby portrayed in On Her Majesty's Secret Service and it is only until Casino Royale that audiences have accepted a darker, grittier Bond.Besides from Connery is has always been excellent as Bond, most of the cast were bad. Gray was okay as Blofeld, but he did not have the presence of Donald Pleasance or menace of Telly Savalas. Accept for the rest of the Bond regulars the cast was bad, St. John was a very bad actress, so was Lana Wood and Norman Burton was the worst actor to play Felix Leiter.In terms of scale this Bond film is lacking; much of the action takes place in Las Vegas, limiting the scale non feel s very exotic and limiting the scope. The Las Vegas setting was basically an attempt to make the series appeal more to American audiences.As a direct follow up to On Her Majesty's Secret Service, Diamonds Are Forever is a disappointment for discarding the revenge storyline and focusing on a lighter story. But as a standalone Diamonds Are Forever is decent. It is better then other films in the series like Moonraker, The Man With the Golden Gun and Die Another Day. It's enjoyable enough, but not the most memorial film of the series.
This is what the world really needs a Michael Bay, Jerry Bruckheimer, Randall Wallace film starting Ben Affleck, Josh Hartnett and Kate Beckinsale that re-writes American history and World War Two.Pearl Harbour is meant to be a film about the famous attack by the Japanese Navy that forced the United States into get involved in World War Two in a military scene. However, what could have been an interesting and entertaining study of the military and intelligence failures/successes and the change of American attitudes fails because Randall Wallace (who wrote the awful Braveheart) turned the story into no more then a romantic film whilst Michael Bay tries to pay to his strengths which is bombastic action and Jerry Bruckheimer whilst is the master of dumb blockbusters. The film markers felt that they needed to turn an American tragedy into a success and a patriotic exercise.The casting was terrible. Ben Affleck, Josh Hartnett and Kate Beckinsale all can't act and they end up as the leads. Kate Beckinsale's character, Evelyn, a Navy nurse, who ends up having a relationship with Rafe (Ben Affleck). However Rafe is called to serve in the Eagle Squadron in the Battle of Britain and asks Danny (Josh Hartnett) to take care of Evelyn for him. However when they both think Red had died they end up comfort each other and end up having a relationship together when stationed in Pearl Harbour. But Red comes back and you can imagine he is a little upset and falls up with both of them. But things get patched up when Japan attacks. I did not believe in the relationships that Evelyn has but if anything it should be Rafe and Danny have sex with each other.They are some subplots as well in the film. There is President Roosevelt (Jon Voight) who has to lead the country through the crisis and Voight is best performer in the film. Another element is the story of Doris Miller (Cuba Gooding Jr.) who is the first black sailor to win the Navy Cross. However it felt like Cuba Gooding Jr. was no more then the token black guy. There is also some romantic elements involving Pilots and Nurses (the nurses are a right bunch of slags).The writing is awful. There is nothing but war movie clichés and terrible dialogue. The film has historical inaccuracies, but Wallace has never seen history as an important in historical films. He insults the memories of British and American pilots and portrays the Japanese as a blood thirsty and backwards people. The number of Americans who fought in the Battle of Britain was small and not servicemen picked by the air force. They were volunteers who opposed Fascism and not in the American Air Force. They were brave men, like the British, Canadians, French, Polish, Czechs etc... who all fought in the battle. The other major problems is they is no reason why the Japanese attacked America, no look at the run up to the war. There is only a brief mention that Japan was running out of oil but that's it. Also the film makes out that Red and Danny did most of the fighting for the air force, able to fly fighters and bombers and getting involved in the Doolittle raids which insults the real pilots who were involved. As well the film makes out that the Doolittle Raid was an important event, but it was really a foot-note, doing nothing for against the Japanese whilst only a propaganda tool for the Americans. I'm a believe that historical accuracy should be maintained all times in films and shouldn't take too much of an artistic license to real events. But Wallace doesn't understand that. The same critics and fans who praised Braveheart thinking history isn't important take a hypocritical view with Pearl Harbour. Americans feel insulting other countries history is okay, but when it comes to American history it's basically 'How dare they'. Roger Ebert is a good example.The visuals are impressive and some of the scenes during the bombing sequence are fun, but it isn't enough. The whole film is too long and drags. During the bombing sequence some moments are totally unbelievable and makes the film silly. It's the same with the end after the places clash in China, with American pilots with small arms easily kill Japanese soldiers, but only one of them dies. The final narration was sickening saying America never suffered a defeat, recovered and became all powerful: what about Vietnam? What about the efforts of Britain, the Commonwealth (i.e. Australia, Canada, India, New Zealand etc...), the Soviet Union and the Chinese? Bay was properly the worst choice of director because he is no more then an action director. He doesn't do deep story or romance or very much really. The film needed a director of gravitas like Spielberg or Scorsese to happen a lot of material. But most of the blame is reserved for Wallace.A new film about Pearl Harbour would have had so much potential but Americans can't accept a defeat. The military, diplomatic and intelligence all could have made an interesting film or book, but Wallace thought an fictional story was needed. No it isn't!Pearl Harbour tries to be a hybrid of Titanic and Saving Private Ryan, but fails on both. It is a really bad film.
Road movies tend to be films that only Americans do, mainly because it apart of the culture and the size of the nation (imagine how boring a road movie from London to Edinburgh would be). But Alfonso Cuaron was able to turn it into a Mexican drama.Set in around the year 1999, two teenagers, Julio (Gael García Bernal) and Tenoch (Diego Luna) from Mexico's elite have to say goodbye to their girlfriends going travelling in Europe. Both are oversexed and take drugs, and are preparing to go to university. In the summer their are bored very quickly, and at a wedding they flirt with an older Spanish woman, Luisa (Maribel Verdú) and invite her to join them on a trip to the beach Heaven's Mouth. It's a mystery on whether it even exists. What take's the boys by surprise is when Luisa accepts their offer and they have to make some quick arrangements. On the trip through rural Mexico the boys tells stories of their sex lives and become more and more interested in Luisa, who is depressed about her live. On their trip they see poverty that rural Mexicans suffer, the changes to the nations and their own friendship is tested.The film is classified as a comedy. I personally see it as a drama with some comedic elements. It is a tale of friendship which also acts as a social commentary about the youth of Mexican and the social elites (they suffer the same issues as anyone else). It also shows wider themes about Mexican life and the issues facing the nation.The winning features of the film are the performances and the direction. Bernal, Luna and Verdu are fine actors, ending up doing other excellent films after Y Tu Mama Tambien. Cuaron is a man who gets the best out of his actors; just look at some of his other films to see this. All free actors make you believe in their characters and have tough roles to play. You end up caring for the character, a tough job because Julio and Tenoch are not very likable.Alfonso Cuaron is one of the best directors around at the moment, making the best of the Harry Potter films and the excellent Children of Men. He has such a great approach to this film, allowing the camera to follow the characters and action, using tracking shots and focusing in and out. He rarely cuts, which is refreshing in today's climate. The action feels more natural and the takes a Kubrickian approach. Cuaron makes you interested in to fairly unlikeable character. I personally see Cuaron as one of my top 3 options to direct the next Bond film.If you like this film, I also recommend the Motorcycle Diaries.This is a worthy film.
Directors like bands and singers are susceptible to suffering a second album syndrome, as they success leads to them having more free reign and see them receive less of an objective advice. After the success of Ted, Family Guy creator Seth MacFarlane made a bigger scale film with his follow-up A Million Ways to Die in the West.The Old West was terrible place to live where people risk death from other people, wildlife, the weather, disease and injury. Only the tough can survive, and unfortunately for sheep farmer Albert Stark (MacFarlane), he is a coward and after being shot by his girlfriend Louise (Amanda Seyfried) she breaks up with him for a successful moustached man, Foy (Neil Patrick Harris). But all is not lost after he strikes up a friendship with Ann (Charlize Theron) who offers to help him win her back.A Million Ways to Die in the West is a comedy of two halves. The first half is a constantly funny comedy, using strong verbal, physical and gross-out comedy to supply laughs. The second half becomes more reliant on more cruder humour as the story itself runs out of steam.Ted worked taking the fun childish fantasy and twisted it into a stoner comedy. A Million Ways to Die in the West is a more traditional story of a man trying to win over his dream girl when he is blind to a better girl that is already there: it just happens to be set in the Old West. MacFarlene does show his affection for the Western genre, using bright cinematography and desert locations, the set dressing and costumes and its score which are all reminiscent of classic Westerns, just with more swearing, sex and violence.MacFarlane surrounds himself with a strong cast, featuring the likes of Giovanni Ribisi and Sarah Silverman, having fun as a Christian Couple saving themselves for marriage despite Silverman playing a popular prostitute. Theron's strength was supplying a deadpan performance, working off the more overt humour of the other characters and the strange location of Old Stump. Most of the cast was strong, but some actors suffer bigger indignities then others. MacFarlane also eschews some fun cameos who provide some great moments A Million Ways to Die in the West has strong first hour, that was consistently funny for the most part and features some of MacFarlane's risqué humour. But this was a film that needed a rewrite for the second half as it drags its down. It should have been a shorter, tauter affair.6.5/10 Please visit www.rocknreelreviews.com
In 2013 Disney scored a massive hit with Frozen, a making over $1 Billion and was particularly popular with girls. Their follow-up is more boy aimed adventure and the 10-year-old inside me loved it.Hiro Hamada (Ryan Potter) is a 14-year-old tech genius who is wasted his talents on underground robot battles. He brother Tadashi (Daniel Henney) shows him the light and the potential good his talents might produce and gets him to apply for university. But like in many Disney films a loving family member dies tragically and during Hiro's grief he awakes his brother's creation, the medical robot Baymax (Scott Adsit). While exploring the street of San Fransokyo Hiro finds a masked man he believes is responsible for his brother's death and decides to upgrade Baymax to take on the supervillian.Big Hero 6 has everything you would want from a Disney film, it is funny, dramatic, emotional and action: it is the complete package. As you would expect from a Disney film the animation is of the highest quality imaginable, detailed, complex and very colourful. The action sequences are fantastic, fast and fluid and easily matches anything in their live-action counterparts. It is a thrill ride of a film.The emotional core of Big Hero 6 is the relationship Hiro has with his brother, how he put Hiro on the straight and narrow and that he suffers from his grief. He slowly develops a love for Baymax as Baymax becomes a part of Hiro's mission. This is well trodden territory for Disney and some of the point plots are predictable to anyone who has seen a lot of films or some of Disney's most recent films: but Disney does this formula very well, so you cannot fault them for that.Big Hero 6 gets its balance between the comedy and the drama absolutely right. The comedy is a great mix of wordplay and performance based to slapstick and physical humour. Baymax was offered both forms of comedy brilliant and he was fantastically lovable creation particularly with some of his running gags. The dramatic half of the story has plenty of weight as Hiro tries to figure out the mystery and lets his anger get the better of him when big reveal happens. The villain had an great look to him, dressed in black and wearing a hannya mask and his power has no limits.The heroes haves array of powers when they suit up in the armour and the training and development aspects of the film are very reminiscent to the first Iron Man film. Hiro himself has a Tony Stark quality to him as he creates his robotics. It was particularly refreshing to see that the team are inexperienced and make mistakes when they are called into action for the first time.Big Hero 6 is a delight for the whole family, being an action packed adventure and having excellent drama and comedy. I couldn't recommend it more highly.
With the Dark Knight being a runaway critical and financial success Warner Brothers allowed Christopher Nolan to do whatever project he wants so that he would direct the next Batman movie. Nolan decided to turn a concept he made when he was 15 into a 2 hour, 25 minute sci-fi epic.Dom Cobb (Leonardo DiCaprio) is a best at what he does, invade peoples dreams to steal their ideas for corporations. But when a job goes wrong, businessman Saito (Ken Watanabe) gives Cobb an offer he cannot refuse: if he can implant an idea inside the head of an industrial heir, Robert Fischer (Cillian Murphy) to break up his father's empire, Saito can get all the charges against him in the United States dropped and therefore get to see his children again. Cobb forms a team for the Inception operation: Arthur (Joseph Gordon-Levitt), his second-in-command and lead researcher, Eames (Tom Hardy), a man who can assume the identity of specific people, Ariadne (Ellen Page), an intelligent student who can create the world of the dream and Yusuf (Dileep Rao), a chemist who creates the drugs needed to ensure the operation is disrupted. But Cobb is a man with personal demons, with the memory of his died wife Mal (Marion Cotillard) who sabotages his missions.Inception is an complex, intelligent film, but Nolan is know that he can not make it a vanity project. He had to make it engaging for the majority of the audience. The basics is Nolan knows how to deliver these type of psychological films, with excellent action scenes. The action is incredible in the film, whether it was a well constructed battle in the streets and on a mountain top to a zero gravity fist fight. Nolan is a traditionalist, he avoids CGI as much as possible and of course it works again when doing action sequences. When he had to use CGI it was top notch and worked whether it was the fist fight, the eternal staircase and shifting the whole of Paris.There are a lot of ideas, bending the ideas of reality. Like The Matrix it shows that the idea of reality can be bent and be made into anything you want: but there are rules, too much interference would lead a person's mind to defence itself. It looks at the ideas of dreams, with clever ideas like multi-layered dreams to both alternative internal timelines to allow the inception team more time, but also add another layer of confusion to the make so can allow the team to exact information. There are themes of how much the mind can create and how other can affects, with of course the psychology of dreams, such as not remembering how a dream starts and how much a subconscious can relieve. The film has ideas of actually trying to go into someone's subconscious selves, how much memory we would actually have and what the mind would do to protect itself. There is also a big theme of what happens if you try and bury your problems and memory it can lead to making things worst for yourself. Facing up to issues is a much similar thing to do. Plus there is the idea that if you get to hooked on the idea of living in your dreams then you would get confused on what is real and fake. It shows that to implant a idea that it needs to be positive for it stick in the mind but needs elements of positive and negative to ensure it works. Nolan is also clever in the sense of adding a threat to the film: one problem was going to be that if you die in a dream the worst thing that would happen is wake up, but Nolan was able to make sure the character had to live in the dreams because if their die then they would loose their memories and mind.Nolan has also assembled another excellent cast. DiCaprio works in his second psychological film of the year, playing a man who is suffering from grief and lost, avoiding facing up to his problems. He is a psychologically complex character that is a recurring theme of Nolan's films and a fantastic performance from DiCaprio. He knows how to pick a film and shows why directors love to cast him. Page too was excellent and gives her performance yet (I admit I have thought she was overrated in the past). Gordon-Levitt shows his talent and with Hardy were able to add a slightly lighter touch but still able to serious when there need to. Cotillard too shows that she is a brilliant talent, with a great role, which people could easily argue as being the main antagonist of Inception and Murphy had a excellent role that allows him to show his ability. Plus there are great minor roles for Michael Caine, Pete Postlethwaite and Tom Berenger.The editing, cinematography and score was also of the highest level. Hans Zimmer is a great composer and give the film fitting music and Wally Pfister had fun with the many different locations of the film. Lee Smith shows how a film should be edited, mixing the scenes of different actions in different worlds to action scenes where we get to see what's happening. Nolan is clearly one of the best directors around, making intelligence blockbusters.
The original Star Wars trilogy are properly 3 of the best loved films ever made and it is definitely one of the few film series as a whole where all 3 films are good. When George Lucas decided to revisit his creation with a prequel trilogy about how Anakin Skywalker became Darth Vader. There was even a cool poster of a young boy walking with his show being Darth Vader. The Phantom Menace was one of the most eagerly awaited of 1999.Set 32 years before the events Stars Wars Episode IV: A New Hope the Trade Federation are trying to put pressure on the Galactic Empire by blockading the planet of Naboo, because of the issue of taxation of trade. The Superme Chancellor sent two Jedi Knights, Qui-Gon Jinn (Liam Neeson) and Obi-Wan Kenobi (Ewan McGregor) to resolve the issue. But they are unable to stop the Trade Federation invading the planet and the Jedi were forced to save Queen Amidala (Keira Knightley) and her court. This group are forced to go to the planet Tatooine where there are stuck. On that desert world they meet the young Anakin Skywalker (Jake Lloyd), a boy who is a slave with his mother. He is quickly befriended by the Amidala handmaiden Padme (Natalie Portman). Qui-Gon also sees that the child had extraordinary gifts with the force and sets out to free him from his serfdom.With nearly 16 years since the last Star Wars film and the film George Lucas directed for 22 years there was a lot of expectation on the Phantom Menace. But this prequel was never able to live up to it and this is the weakest out of all the live action Star Wars films. There are several reasons why this happened: a plot where there are weak reasons for why the bad guys don't fully expand their actions, too much inter-galactic politics which was not needed in a film for families, some very un-Star Wars like scenes like the two head commenter, weak acting, too-long running time and the biggest of them all Jar-Jar Binks. Lucas tries to defend Jar-Jar Binks because the films are aimed for children and he was meant to be a character for them: but he was just very annoying throughout the film and only the very youngest of children would have laughed at his antics. Some people are even suggested that Binks was a racial stereotype of Jamaican people, but at the very least he a misguided step by Lucas. It was also suggested that The Phantom Menace was a chance for Lucas to vent against his tax bill (he's rich he needs to accept that he is going to have a slightly higher level of taxation against him). Whether it's true or not the plot was fairly weak (and Star Wars isn't known for complex plots (yes I know Star Wars has complex themes)). They needed to be someone more visible, like the Trade Federation wanting power or control of a resource on Naboo. The politics was too much and something people couldn't really relate to. It could be suggested that it was influenced by the Roman Empire, but also very much like Republican views about Washington D.C. (not really the way to go). But then I'm just looking to much into it. Jack Lloyd was also a terrible casting choice, his acting was very weak and wooden and just not very good. He wasn't convincing as the young Anakin and some of the things he said like Yippee was annoying. Keira Knightley was also wooden in her role, but this was one of her first roles. But at least Liam Neeson was in the film and he was decent in his role.It isn't all doom and gloom with this film. The action scenes and special effects were excellent throughout the film and there was a lot of ambition when it came to design of alien species. Whilst the pod-racing did like look like it was computer game, the battle of Naboo was well done and the fight scene with Darth Maul was excellent. Darth Maul was a great creation as a villain and it's a shame that he wasn't given a lot more screen time.Whilst The Phantom Menace is far from being called a good movie, there are still moments to enjoy from it, particularly the final third. The second two films of the prequel trilogy were a lot better.
The Duchess was advertised on the back of a very controversial advertising campaign, using Georgiana Cavendish's famous relative Princess Diana as a part of the marketing campaign. Despite this The Duchess is a decent, if standard costume drama.Georgiana Cavendish (Keira Knightley) is an intelligence young woman from noble stock. At a young age she marries the much older man the Duke of Devonshire (Ralph Fiennes), one of the most powerful peers in the House of Lords and a wealthy landowner. She only marries him so that she could bore him a son. There marriage is complex, the Duke is cold and distance to his wife, particularly when she has daughters and he has affairs, including with Lady Bess Foster (Hayley Atwell), Georgiana's best friend. But Georgiana becomes a major figure in England, being a fashion idol and a major supporter of the Whigs (in very loose terms Liberal) party. She is an idealist and she forms a close relationship with politician Charles Grey (Dominic Cooper).I first thing I had to say is The Duchess is a very beautiful looking film. The costumes are grand and wonderful to look at. I'm sure there was a great amount of research and love and care from designer Michael O'Conner (who deserved his Academy Award). The Art Direction was also of a high end and there was a lot of detail put into this film. They wanted to get the feel for the period. The director Saul Dibb seemed to be influenced by Stanley Kubrick's Barry Lyndon with the amount of candle light shots and wonderful historical settings in Bath and the countryside. Dibb did a good job trying to keep a good pace and there solid attempt to make an interesting film.There is a good cast and Keira Knightley is growing as an actress. She has proved her talent in Pride and Prejudice and Atonement and she gives a really strong and believable and her range was tested. She is becoming the biggest name young costume actress around. Fiennes was good as always playing a emotionally distance man who only cared about himself. But we do not get to know much about him and is really much there in him. Many of the to other performances were typical and decent in a costumer drama and many of the characters are the usual characters that you would find. Charlotte Rampling has an interesting character as both Georgiana's best friend and the Duke of Devonshire's lover in what is a very complex relationship.There are big ideas and themes in the film. The phase 'there were three people in our marriage' is taken to a new extreme with Georgiana having to life with the woman having an affair with her hubby. For politics and history nuts there is plenty to sink your teeth into with Georgiana becoming a major political campaigner for the Whigs and reform and even more surprising considering women did not have any say. Political ideas and philosophy were discussed in the film. Sexual politics was also a major theme in the film, showing the hypocrisy of the age that it was of for a man to have a mistress because it was the done but it was social suicide for woman to have affair. The Duchess also show that marriages in the aristocracy were made for political reasons and ensure that a land owner could give their land to a son: not love. If a landowner gave their land to a daughter then the people their married would inherit all the land. No many how intelligence a woman was men still held all the power and influence in the land.I also have to praise Rachel Portman's string based score, which was fitting music for the time.But as strong as film as the Duchess is, it does not do anything that stretches the genre.
I have just been to see Prince Caspian and I found it to be an enjoyable experience, better then Indiana Jones and the Lion, the Witch and the Wardrode (2005). The film is set a year after the events in the Lion, the Witch and the Wardrode in Earth time, but 1300 years in Narnia time. A race of human called the Telmarines had taken over Narnia. The Lord Protector of the kingdom, Miraz (Sergio Castellitto), has a son at the beginning of the film and that means his family line could take over the kingdom. He orders the assassination of the rightful heir, Prince Caspian (Ben Barnes). He luckily runs away and heads to the forest where some of the creatures of old still live. He calls on our heroes from the last film, Peter, Susan, Edmund and Lucy to help form an army and reclaim the throne. Aslan has disappeared and the other Narnian had died.This film is more action packed then its predecessor, and has a darker tone, showing characters dying and not just being frozen. The religious message is also toned down, only a ending suggests a message about redemption, but it not so obvious as the message of sacrifice in the Lion, the Witch and the Wardrode. It is still light-hearted enough for kids to enjoy. Eddie Izzard and Peter Dinklage offer a little comedic relief as Reepicheep the mouse and Trumpkin the dwarf. Reepicheep was in the mold of Puss-in-Boats from the Shrek films and Izzard was good and Trumpkin was similar to Gimli from Lord of the Rings, comedic, but able and willing to fight. I also thought that the end battle scene was very good, with the Lord of the Rings in the back of the film makers minds. They was also a good scene when the Narnians attack the Telmarinian castle.They are few things I didn't like about the film, the lighting when the film was set in night so dark that that it was hard to see anything. Compared to a film like the Incredible Hulk which its final fight scene was set at night, it was still easy enough to see what was happening. I also didn't think Ben Barnes was a good casting choice. Prince Caspian was meant to be a underage to rule the state, but in the film he looked like he was in his late teens/early twenties. I would have casted someone that looked fifteen/sixteen, making it a little more believable. Finally for a family film I thought that it was a bit too long, it was 2 hours 20 minutes. I think a family film like this should have been around 2 hours at most.I have not read the Narnia books, so I can't judge it compared them, but as a film is entertaining.
Shrek 2 is a very entertaining sequel and a good family film. This film follows Shrek and Fiona who had just came back from there honeymoon and Fiona's parents, the King and Queen of Far Far Away (get the joke) invite them to visit the kingdom. Unfortunately they don't know that Fiona was turned into a ogre, and not back into her human form. Fiona's dad was shocked, wanting Fiona to marry Prince Charming (this was hinted at in the first film), and admits to have Shrek assassinated by Puss-in-Boots. Shrek then tries to make himself into the man Fiona wants and at the same time Prince Charming and the Fairy Godmother plot to get Fiona to fall in love with Prince Charming.This film works on many levels, it has a decent story and makes fun and uses many aspects of famous fairy tales. The Fairy Godmother is the main villain in this film which is a good twist. The film also parodies many things that could appeal to adults, such as an Alien parody, and there are more general references to films like Lord of the Rings, Mission Impossible and Indiana Jones. There are also cultural references such as Starbucks and a parody of Hollywood. There is a good supporting cast to the film. I liked Antonio Banderas as Puss-in-Boots, Julie Andrews, John Cleese and Rupert Everett. I also thought that it was a very good move to cast Jennifer Saunders as the Fairy Godmother. In the British version we got Jonathan Ross and Kate Thornton in the film which I thought was pretty fun. The animation of the film is top-notch and is possibly the best around. It is the most realistic in style and some of the little details are really good, such as seeing the freckles on Fiona's face. The also has fun little Easter Eggs and need to watch the film again to notice them, such as in the beginning of the film the Big Bad Wolf was reading a 'Pork Illustrated' magazine. I enjoyed the creation of Puss-in-Boots as a character and thought he was great. A little sidenote was that he looked liked my cat who was a young kitten at the time and thought it was a fun coincidence. My only problem of the film was the occasional fart joke, but it is aimed for children, so I can understand why they done it.Shrek 2 is a very good, but it was a shame that the third on was no where need as good.
Memento is a wonderingly complex, intelligence and bold thriller from Christopher Nolan, offering us a rich tapestry of story and ideas. It was the film that put Nolan on the map and was one very compelling thriller.Leonard Shelby (Guy Pearce) is a man suffering anterograde amnesia, which results in having no short term memory. He has to take Polaroid photos and making a lot of notes to get by as he solves the mystery of who raped and murdered his wife. He has two allies, a bartender Natalie (Carrie-Anne Moss) who is in trouble with a local drug dealer and Teddy (Joe Pantoliano). But one or both of them could be using Leonard for their own reasons. Leonard also thinks back to his past life as an insurance investigator and to a man with the same condition Samuel R. Jankis (Stephen Tobolowsky).Nolan employs an non-linear narrative, telling the story backwards, unfolding the mystery the other way and see how Leonard came to that conclusion. We know as much as Leonard as we dissect the web of clues and we do not know who we really should trust. These are characters in there own self interests and the whole film is a puzzle.There are three great leads performance, playing interesting characters that motivations swing back and forth as they play on Leonard's condition. They are well written, complex characters that were believably played by the actors and makes them compelling. Pearce has to be on the top of his game for a very challenging role. He pulls it off exceptionally well and it is a shame he was never the big leading actor he deserves to be.There are some nice little touches through out the film, from a scene where one of the characters takes all the pens to prevent Leonard making a note and the different filming styles to show the duel narratives.Memento is an intelligence, well thought out film that deserves the reputation it has earned. This is a film that deconstructs the typical storytelling approach and makes something unique, whilst still being an interesting piece of work and a compelling story.
After the success of First Blood and Sylvester Stallone growing star after the that film and the Rocky series, a sequel seemed like a logical move for a studio to make money. And it did, with it's box-office of around $300 Million worldwide and latter video and DVD sells, and creation of Rambo fanboys.At the end of First Blood John Rambo (Sylvester Stallone) was arrested for his private war in Washington State. Rambo was in prison, working in a quarry when his old Colonel (Richard Crenna) gives him offer. He could do a solo mission in Vietnam to see if his old POW camp still exists and had American prisoners. If he did it then a Presidential Pardon was likely. In Vietnam he discovers that American POWs were still in the camp and taking the mission on face-value tries to go to his extraction where the man running the mission, Marshal Murdock (Charles Napier), aborts it. Rambo now has enemies on two fronts, the Vietnamese and their Soviet backs, and his own superiors back in Thailand.After the Vietnam War some Americans have refused to accept the fact that they lost. It not hard to find people on the internet who believe that American could have won, and were winning on the battlefield. Rambo 2 gives this audience and America a charge to fight and win in Vietnam all over again. The first Rambo film at least had something to say about the treatment about of veterans, which the left and right could agree one. However, Rambo 2 turns Rambo into a right-wing character, showing how great America is, whilst the evil that Vietnam and Soviet Union represent. It also had the other major aspect of the Right-wing American mentality, don't trust the government. This is represented by Murdock, a Congressial bureaucrat who is willing to abandon Rambo and the POWs because of the cost and diplomatic problems that would arise. There are people in America who distrust bureaucrats and politicians from Washington D.C. who are at war with their own government; it's seems nuts to me. As well it shows that Soviet Union is the masterminds to all the evil in the Communist world. Stallone also got to take on the Soviets in Rocky IV in the same year. So we have established that the film is politically dodgy. It's also hard to believe because if the Americans did find out that the Vietnamese still have POWs, wouldn't they do everything in their power to give them back? Either diplomatically, militarily or covertly?The action is pantomime and clichéd at times. There are some good bits, especially when Rambo had to use his old skills, like covering himself in mud before killing a Soviet soldier. This film is the first where we see the famous Rambo like, the hair-band, the vest, boots and the knife, which was parodied in Family Guy and countless people around the world who know of the films. There are some lovely violence deaths; my famous is the death of a Vietnamese soldier using an explosive bow and arrow. There is a Soviet soldier in the film who is shown to be an enforcer for the head of the Soviet troops. He was shown as a sadistic torturer, but could main Rambo for strenght and skill. This is should have been an area the film could have played up.The acting is mixed, just like Stallone performance. Some of his performance is poor, but need the end he shows some of his acting muscles. The best actions in the film are Richard Crenna and Charles Napier as the different sides of the American military, especially in one scene where they argue the rights and wrongs of the situation. The worst performance was by Julia Nickson who played a Vietnamese woman working for the Americans. She couldn't act and the love story between her and Rambo was ridiculous and clichéd.It's okay, but not really worth watching.
Akira Kurosawa is one of the greatest filmmakers ever and his last epic film Ran is often considered one of his best, an adaptation of King Lear. Ran is a visually striking, thematic epic that Kurosawa's fan will love. Ran is glorious to look at, having fantastic colours, costumes and cinematography of the Japanese plains and mountains. The characters are rich, major and minor as well defined and have a role to play with their character dynamic. Tatsuya Nakadai as Hidetora is a character who goes through the ringer as he descends into madness, face all his sins when he rose to power and goes into a mental and physical void as he ends up in a wasteland. The battle of Third Castle was a terrific sequence as a small force are in a last stand against massive army attacks, using arrows and muskets. It was beautifully shot battle, showing the scale of the army and showing the carriage as Hidetora's mind cracks.A theme of power corrupts as Hidetora seek power as his sons want to have complete control of the land. All the characters have their own agendas and the only ones who are loyal to Hidetora are the ones he rejected. All the characters in the power struggle are all trying to play one against the other.Kurosawa direction is superb, a great looking film and he allowed scenes to play out in long takes, allowing the drama to play out and adds to the theatrical nature of the acting and story. Kurosawa even uses the weather to great effect to enhance the emotion and turmoil the characters and world suffers, much like Rashomon and Throne of Blood.Ran is typical Kurosawa.
Ever since childhood Drew Barrymore has been seen as one of the wild children of Hollywood and struggled to find her right calling. She has been in some good films like Donnie Darko but with Whip It she has shown she is a very capable director. So much so Barrymore has been linked to the Twilight series and already done a really good music video with Chloe Mortez.Bliss Cavendar (Ellen Page) is a Texan 17-year-old who is unhappy with her life: her mum (Marcia Gay Harden) has been forcing her to enter into beauty pageants and all she want to do is escape her small town life. She gets an opportunity when in Austin she stills some roller derby girls and she tries out for a team in the local league. Bliss discovers she is a fast roller skater and with her abilities the worst team in the league start to win. But along the way Bliss falls for a local musician, Oliver (Landon Pigg), forms a friendship with her captain Maggie Mayhem (Kristen Wigg), forms a rivalry with the star power of a rival team, Iron Maven (Juliette Lewis) and has to hid her new activity from her parents.Whip It is both a sports film and a coming-of-age story and Barrymore and her writer Shauna Cross was able to balance both elements perfect. Tone and style wise it was very much like Juno (and not just because Ellen Page is starring in it). The dialogue is funny but unlike Juno it is more grounded and realistic and combined with the performances of the cast it was all very natural. The cinematography and the music was also very much like Juno, the music being a mix of old indie and rock and fitting to the setting. Barrymore also delivers some real strong set pieces, using hand-held cameras during the roller derby to follow the action and showing an underwater romantic scene. Barrymore was able to mix the comedy and drama to great effect, being funny with dialogue and physical humour whilst allowing Bliss to grow from an unhappy girl to a self-confidence young woman who finds her scene of belonging in the world.I am personally not a fan of Page, but I think in Whip It she delivers her best performance so far. Whilst I question her being a beauty queen because I believe Page has a more of a girl next door look about her; but her character was more likable then in Juno, someone who more believable then the cocky, sarcastic creature in that other film. Barrymore forms a strong female cast, Wiig plays a very straight role as a mentor to Bliss and Lewis is a typical bully, picking on someone she thinks is weaker then her. Harden starts of as a typical pushy parent but she too also grows and is given more depth then we usually see. Alia Shawkat plays a loyal friend really well and her friendship with Page was a believable typical teenage friendship. Drew Barrymore also has a small role, a character who is either hurting people or getting hurt herself: it was good that she avoided the self-indulgence of giving herself the mentor role. Out of the male members of the cast Andrew Wilson was very funny as the coach of the team and Daniel Stern is a typical supportive dad. For a man who has not acted before Pigg was also a very competent performer.One little bit of nicpicking I have is for a film that is set in Texas most of the cast talk in normal American accents, not Texan actresses. If they were going to speak in their normal voices why not set the film in another state like Kansas, Colorado or Arizona.The way Whip It plays out it feels very believable, a story that could actually happen. It was a natural little film.
Surrogates is based on a graphic novel by Robert Venditti and Brett Weldele, which became a big-budget sci-fi film. With a budget of $80 Million it was released in September 2009: September and October is often a period for smaller films to be released between the Summer and Christmas seasons. Surrogates bombed and was met with a hostile reception from critics.Set in an un-specific date in the future 98% of humans now live their lives in robotic surrogates, giving most people perfect looks and safety to do anything whilst their bodies are at home. But there is a movement lead by the Prophet (Ving Rhames) who believe that humanity should rejects surrogates and live in slum reservations in city across America. There are called 'dreads'. A new threat emerges when two people using their surrogates are killed through an electronic device. This case is the first murder for years and raises a real risk for the majority of the population. A grief stricken FBI agent Tom Greer (Bruce Willis) and his partner Jennifer Peters (Radha Mitchell) are assigned the case, leading them to a conspiracy involving a powerful monopoly and the dreads.Surrogates is Jonathan Mostow's first film since directing Terminator 3: Rise of the Machines, destroying everything set up in Terminator 2: Judgement Day and basically remade that film as a parody. He also directed the awful U-571 which shows Hollywood's ability to hijack the bravery of British sailors during World War 2 and rewrite history. He does a better job with Surrogates, directing some decent action sequences and to anyone who is interested in the functions of society and a futuristic version of history. The history of riots and social change is well told with news footage and showing the different aspects of conflict in this new world. But Mostow relies on a screenplay by John Brancato and Michael Ferris whoms track-record includes Terminator 3, Terminator Salvation and Catwoman: hardly promising and they do a write a script with holes, like if people can put themselves in a robotic body why do people need cars or public transport, how do people work?, would gun be pointless in a world like this? The plot itself is a standard sci-fi/crime hybrid and told in a short running time. The plot itself does have some really similarities to I, Robot. Surrogates does have a feel of a Philip K. Dick adaptation, with similarities to Minority Report, such as the main character being a member of law enforcement, who is grieving for his lost son and a new technology has made crime really low. Also there is a similarity to The Matrix and Avatar (despite that film being released after Surrogates) where a person can put their mind in a perfect body.Surrogates was held back from critics which is never a good sign, but this film was okay. There was some interesting ideas like how a technology designed to be used by disabled people and to perform dangerous tasks gets highjacked by regular people and the real physical people are dramatically altered. As stated the history and the news reports were well handled and the Dreads are interesting, living in a slum and were a mix, from religious fanatics, rednecks, Amish and people of the term reservations Native American who are defensive over their little territory.Willis offers a decent performance shows he still has some action chops, though he wears the most ridiculous wig when he is a robot. But most of the other actors are pretty robotic (yes I know most of them are robots). They have little to work with and most characters are underdeveloped. I like Rhames as an actor, having incredible roles in Pulp Fiction and Dawn of the Dead; but he does look silly with the big beard and unkept hair. I do wonder if the filmmakers were trying to make him look like Osama Bin Laden. I'm sure the graphic novel had more depth in plot and character development which could have worked in a 2 hour film but it was seen fit to cut larges parts of it.Overall Surrogates is average but it's enjoyable enough to see on TV. A weird footnote is that the comic actress Elizabeth Banks was producer of the film.
Disclaimer: This is a review of the Japanese language version.Hayao Miyazaki is one of the greats of Japanese cinema, making many classic animated films. He is bowing out of filmmaking with his final film, a fictionalised story about aircraft designer Jiro Horikoshi.As a young boy Jiro (Hideaki Anno) dreams of flying and making an aircraft, using his talents to design the Zero fighter despite the limits of the technology as Japan becomes more industrial and militarised. As his professional life goes from strength to strength Jiro forms a relationship with a young woman, Naoko Satomi (Miori Takimoto).As expected from a Miyazaki film the animation is of highest quality, being both detailed and imaginative, a talented voice cast, emotional characters and a brilliant music score. Though there are some dream sequences, The Wind Rises is a mostly grounded affair as Jiro wants success in his career and tells a more serious, melodramatic story. There is little humour, with the comic relief coming from Jiro's boss, Kurokawa (Masahiko Nishimura) who has a particularly funny line near the end of the film.The Wind Rises is set over a long period, from 1918 to the 1930s and Miyazaki shows the changing socio-economics of Japan in this period. Buildings, technology, transport and even fashion change in this period. There are juxtapositions of the modern and the traditional, people either wearing Western suits or traditional Japanese dress, the contrast of the railways to people using horse and carts in rural areas, people moving from the countryside to the cities and even the use of oxens to transport planes to the airfield. The Wind Rises shows Japan as a developing country and the social issues it was suffering.The sequence of the Great Kant Earthquake is superbly done, showing the affects of the fire on Tokyo, the displacement of people and the panic it caused, reminiscent of The Impossible. The side effect of the event was it allowed Tokyo to modernise, redevelop and become a European like city.Miyazaki's anti-war politics is prevalent throughout this film, coming in many forms. There are debates about the military-industrial complex with the money being spend on Japan's armed forces whilst people are living in poverty and foreshadowing of the upcoming war Japan is about to face. Hindsight is a wonderful gift. There are visual realisations of this showing dream sequences of fire bombings, being a sign of the future aerial warfare and its effects, particularly on Japan.Yet Miyazaki does add some moral greys as characters do debate that great things come from suffering and some of humanity's greatest advances have come as a by-product of warfare.It is a great shame that Miyazaki has chosen to retire as he is a fantastic filmmaker who has made some truly wonderful films during his career. The Wind Rises is sombre, interesting film telling the story of a man's passion for both his craft and his love, but it does not join the heights of Miyazaki's filmography.3.5/5Please visit www.rocknreelreviews.com
Pacific Rim was a film that fanboys drooling from the mouth: it is a film about robots fighting monsters made as a homage to Japanese monster films and anime and was directed by Guillermo del Toro. But it was film that failed to connect with audiences and the early box-office numbers are underwhelming.In the future a dimensional portal in the depths of the Pacific Ocean releases giant monsters known as Kaijus into our universe and attack cities across the Pacific Rim. With humanity fighting an impossible battle they create the Jaeger program, uniting to create giant mind control robots to battle the monsters. But by 2025 the only four Jaeger robots are left with few pilots, Kaiju attacks becoming more regular and politicians cutting their funding in flavour of sea wall. In desperation the Jaeger commander, Stacker Pentecost (Idris Elba) recruits a battle scarred ex-pilot Raleigh Becket (Charlie Hunnam) to pilot his old ship as they prepare for an attack on the portal and protect Hong Kong.Pacific Rim is not a particular deep film, it is a B-Movie idea given a Hollywood blockbuster and a top director. If you want to you can find parallels to World War II, with the Jaeger pilots being like RAF pilots during the Battle of Britain with their numbers and equipment diminishing and the false security the sea wall offered like the Maginot Line offered to the French. Pacific Rim's plot is very basic and there are plenty of clichés in the plotting and characters but the characters are well defined and you could easily tell them apart: there did not blend together like they do in say a Michael Bay film.The best aspect of Pacific Rim is the action and special effects. We get a good look of how the Jaegers function and battle a Kaiju in the middle of the ocean before a long build up to the Battle of Hong Kong. The pacing in the middle of the film is slower in the middle of the film but it gives us time to know the characters and del Toro does a great job setting up the world, from the military aspects to small grimaces of society in this world. The Battle is an epic event with a great CGI and destruction that could rival anything in Michael Bay's and Roland Emmerich's films. The action is clear, well shot and edited and it was very clear what was happening on screen. The big fights, the Jaegers and the Kaijus were flesh and inventive, the Jaegers were all very distinctive and the Kaijus were similar to the monster in Cloverfield.An aspect that felt the most of del Toro's input was subplot involving Ron Perlman as a black market dealer of Kaiju body parts. Perlman was delightfully menacing in his brash dress sense and use of a beautiful knife. Perlman gave the character a brass charisma like he did with Hellboy and the iconography used in the slums had that del Toro, including the use of Kaiju skeleton as a temple. The whole black market scenes were very similar to the scenes in Hellboy II: The Golden Army. The idea of some people seeing the Kaijus as Gods and people eating Kaiju body parts was similar to the Nigerian crime lords eating the Prawns' hearts in District 9.Perlman was one of the highlights from the cast. The other highlight in the cast was Elba, a popular and talented actor who oozed coolness and conviction in what he did. When Idris Elba tells you the apocalypse is cancelled, the apocalypse is cancelled! Rinko Kikuchi too was strong in her English language debut, but Hunnam was a little on the stiff side. We were also given two scientists who were comic relief, but sided more on the annoying side, particularly Burn Gorman who seemed to be trying to do his best impression of Matt Smith's Doctor Who.Pacific Rim does make a theme about Raleigh and Mako (Kikuchi) both having pain and lose in in their lives and there are also parallels between Raleigh and Stacker; but the film's themes about shared memories, the Inception/Trance look of the dreamscape or the relationship between man and machine. There are also some problems involving stereotypes: the eccentric British scientist is one of them, the other is the stoic, strong silent Russians who only defined by their nationalities. There is also a plot hole about the scientists looking into the mind of a baby Kaiju, but it leads to the question how does it know anything? Plus the ending is essentially Independence Day's.As well as the top notch special effects that are detailed and show the massive scale of the Jaeger, the score by Ramin Djawadi is excellent, from its Inception style horns, a deep Russian chorus and generally offered grand pieces of music.In comparison to say Michael Bay's Transformers films, del Toro knew what the audience wants, giant action sequences that are clear and inventive as it homages what it is influenced by. There is a build-up of the characters, comic-relief is kept to a minimum. But this was a film that needed at least one skirmish during the character development and should have explored the themes a bit more. But it is still refreshing to see a studio taking a risk with a big budget blockbuster and letting a respected filmmaker take on the project.
Eastern Promises is a film about the Russian Mafia in London. This is David Cronenberg second major thriller after the excellent A History of Violence. This is also the second major film Cronenberg worked with Viggo Mortensen, who is making a good effort to avoid being type-casted after Lord of the Rings.The film starts with a brutal murder of a Russian gangster before seeing a 14-year-old pregnant Russian teenager who falls unconscious and rushed to hospital. She gave birth to a girl, but the mother died during childbirth. The midwife Anne (Naomi Watts) takes a interest in this case and pities the mum and daughter. She takes the girl's diary, but it's in Russian. Anne finds a card to a Russian Restruant within the diary and goes to the place. This is where she meets the leader of a group of the Russian Mafia, and as the diary is translated Anne finds out the truth: that the girl was taken out of Russia to London under fault promises of becoming a sister and ends up being forced into prostitution. Within the Russian mob is Nikolai (Mortensen), the family driver and 'cleaner' who is sympathetic to Anne's cause. He has to deal with some violence characters and ends up doing violence actions himself, but does have at least some morals himself. He does not agree with the use of prostitution. In the middle of this a small turf war is brewing between factions of the Russian Mafia and Scottish Yard is investigating the murder of one gangster.This film is pretty good, but I was a little disappointed. It was not as good as A History of Violence and I felt that the final act was a little be unbelievable. I think it could have shown more about how the Russian Mafia works or more about the sex trade. But this film very well made, very well acted. Both Mortensen and Watts are very good actors and Cronenburg is a expert director. The main problem was with the scipit. The film is very violence, as expected, very bleak and if you are offended by male nudity then it best that you avoid this film. But during the male nudity is a very good fight scene. The film is as very short, just under an hour and half. Whether its a good thing or bad thing is best left up to you.
Fans of Paul Verhoeven's 1987 version of Robocop cried betrayal at even the idea of a remake, let alone it being a PG-13 action film. As a film on its own merits, this version of Robocop is a perfectly enjoyable and amiable effort at restarting the Robocop series, even though it does not reach the same heights as the original film.In the near-future, robot forces are essential to enacting American foreign policy and they are able to pacify any area, with a minimum need of human soldiers. While this is helpful around the world, the same robots are not allowed to be used on American soil, because of the Dreyfess Act, causing OmniCorp a problem as the American market is not open to them. To win the PR battle, OmniCorp's CEO Raymond Sellars (Michael Keaton) suggests putting a man into a machine and hires Dr. Dennett Norton (Gary Oldman), an expert at making robotic limbs to lead the project.In Detroit, Alex Murphy (Joel Kinnaman) is an honest police detective who wants to bring down Antoine Vallon (Patrick Garrow), a crime lord with corrupt members of the police in his pocket. Murphy barely survives an assassination attempt and he becomes the perfect candidate to become Robocop. Soon a debate rages on how much emotion and mental awareness Murphy should be allowed to have, as he starts to clean up the streets of Detroit. His wife, Clara (Abbie Cornish) struggles against both OmniCorp and the machine her husband has become.There was a lot of hostility towards the reboot of Robocop and the most harden of resistance will never be won. Somehow, this reboot does manage to stand on its own two feet, building up its own world, focusing on the drama, the politics, the science and the ethics in this future. In comparison to a remake of another Paul Verhoven film the 2014 version of Robocop sets out to tell a story and set up a world, while 2012′s Total Recall was just a relentless slog of meaningless action scenes.Elite Squad's José Padilha took on the directing duties and he puts his own stamp on the series. He takes a more hyper-realistic look, similar to the Iron Man trilogy and The Amazing Spider-man, setting the film in a world similar to our own but with more advance technology. Padilha knows he cannot compete with Verhoven on the satire that made the original Robocop so loved, so plays the reboot straight and keeps the deadpan humour to a minimum.Despite the lack of satire Padilha and his writers do employ some political themes, namely the use of drones by the American military, how America project force around the world, while being safe within her own borders. The other major theme is the political battle between Sellars and Senator Dreyfess (Zach Grenier), how Sellars tries to win over the hearts and minds of the American public. Samuel L. Jackson is the character supplying a satirical edge as a Fox News style talk show host, using his larger than life persona to its fullest extent. Imagine Samuel L. Jackson if he was really right wing and you'll get the idea of what he's going for.The other theme is to what extent Murphy is, a man or a machine and how much free will and emotion he truly has. Padilha tackles the theme of how Murphy regains his humanity much differently than the 1987 version, taking a more scientific and philosophical approach. The 1987 was stronger, as Murphy's life and death is much more tragic, but the 2014 version was aiming to be more realistic and there is strength in the relationship between Murphy and Norton and the moral dilemma Norton suffers.One of the biggest criticisms the reboot was it has a PG-13 rating when the original was a hard-R. Padilha is an accomplished action director in Brazil and the reboot does supply strong action sequences, using a hand-held style and some shaky cam and has excellent special effects and CGI. There was a particularly stunning scene when Murphy sees how much of himself was biological after he became Robocop, showing his remaining organs.Robocop has an excellent cast and they all provide solid performances. Oldman was the strongest performer, as his character has the biggest internal conflict, as a man who wants to do good but slowly sacrifices his ethics. Kinnaman is decent in the lead: he can handle himself in the action scenes, but Peter Weller was iconic in the original film with his deadpan delivery and character arc.The original Robocop is always going to be a classic action film, yet the reboot is a solid sci-fi action film in its own right, taking the basic story of the original and letting the filmmakers make their own film. Robocop (2014) certainly does not join the hall of shame of remakes like Total Recall (2012) and the reboot is not the worst Robocop film (That rightfully belongs to Robocop 3).Please visit www.entertainmentfuse.com
I have recently seen the Incredible Hulk and I found it to be an enjoyable film. In Britain the reviews were at best average, but I thought it was good, especially against the Ang Lee version.The plot of the film is that Bruce Banner already has the Hulk inside him and is on the run from the US government. He had settled in Brazil and lives in the slums of a city. He was working in a soft drinks factory and hadn't transformed into the Hulk in five months. However, he accidentally cuts himself and his blood falls into a bottle. After a man drinks from the bottle in the US General Ross, sends a team of Special Forces to capture him. In Brazil Banner is also trying to find a cure and was in contact with a scientist in the USA. He was able to reduct the gamma radiation in Banner's blood, but he needs data which Banner's can't provide. After the attack Banner decides to go back to America to get the data and his cure. He had to go to Virginia, to the University where he worked with Betty Ross and became the Hulk. He ends up battling the army on the campus, and both the Hulk and Betty are on the run, before heading off to New York to meet the scientist that could care Banner.At the same time Ross meets an experience army soldier, Emil Blonsky, a Russian-born British marine (the ultimate Hollywood bad-guy) and discovers he has an ambition to fight and becomes interested in the Hulk and wants to defeat him. Ross tells Blonsky about the Super-Soldier programme from World War 2 and starts to injection with a gamma based serum that makes Blonsky more stronger and powerful then any other soldiers and gives him rapid healing abilities. However he is still not strong enough to beat the Hulk. It is only when his mixes the Hulk's blood into his own that he becomes the Abomination, a very powerful monster. This events leads to an epic battle between the Hulk and the Abomination in Harlem.This film works because it doesn't take itself too seriously, doesn't deal with the father son relationship like in the Ang Lee version, has lots of actions and is influenced by the TV show. This film breaks away from the X-Men/Batman Begins approach of being as dark, serious and realistic as possible, and goes down the Spiderman/Iron Man idea of being a bit more fun. The Hulk looks better in this film, showing that he big and muscular and light green, compared to the bright green blob with a sad face in previous version. The action is better, even when the Hulk isn't involved, because there was a good chase scene in the Brazilian slums. I thought the Abomination looked really impressive, and the director, Louis Leterrier changed him from a reptilian to a bone like creature. This film also has better villains, the Abomination is a match for the Hulk and General Ross is more power mad in this version. I didn't like the fact that in the Ang Lee version the villain of the film was Bruce Banner's dad. I also felt that Ed Norton was better then Eric Bana as Bruce Banner.The film is also linked with other Marvel films, in the title sequence there is a mention of Stark Industries and Nick Fury. The super-serum from World War 2 is linked to Captain America which is going to be made into a film. Robert Downey Jr. also has a cameo as Tony Stark, and anyone who has seen the end sequence of Iron Man can guess what he is doing in the film, because it is going to be linked with the Avengers film that will be made. It is also hinted that the Leader is going to be a villain in the next film if it is made.There are problems, I find it totally unrealistic that the Hulk could travel from Brazil to Guatemala in a day, even with super-powers, and that it is unlikely that the Hulk could blow out a fire just by clapping his hands.The Hulk is however a good film, a solid 7.5 out of 10.
The Longest Day is a epic war film, having three directors, a running time of nearly three hours and made on a grand scale. The Longest Day tells the story and events of D-Day from the British, American, German and French perspectives. There are many story from the Allies deciding on whether to invade, the German wondering where the Allies would invade, the airborne landings in Normandy to capture important strategic points, the bench landings and German commander's reaction to invasion and trying to get the Panzer Reserves into the battle. The Longest Day is a historically accuracy film as it shows all these parts of the conflict and is balanced between showing the story of the British, German and Americans and soldiers fighting on the ground and high command in headquarters. The Longest Day focuses on the military aspects, so threats the Germans and their generals simply as men doing their jobs. The battles were brilliant handled, especially with aerial shots showing the size of the actions. The Longest Day does suffer from a few bad performances and expository dialogue but it is a must watch for fans of war films and history buffs.
Film adaptations of popular cartoon series rarely match the quality of the series. However, South Park Bigger Longer and Uncut is an exception to the rule.In America the Terence and Philip film is about to be released. All the kids in South Park are looking forward to seeing it and out four heroes, Stan, Kyle, Cartman and Kenny sneak into the cinema to see it. The result is there are shock to hear them use swear words in the film (get the joke?), and results in them swearing at school. This causes a massive moral panic in America led by Kyle's mother. Anti-Canadian feeling run high and Terence and Philip are arrested in America. This leads to a war between the two North American nations, especially when America plan to kill the comedians. In the depths of Hell Satan has fallen into an abusive relationship with the recently deceasted Saddam Hussien. Because of the events of Earth Satan could raise if Terence and Philip are killed on American soil. So this makes issues even more important and Kenny has to warn the boys from beyond the grave.What the TV series does so effectively is mix low brow humour and clever satire. Like a fine wine the show has improved with age. Whilst in most TV film adaption some element that made the show good is lost when its transferred to film. But Bigger, Longer and Uncut doesn't. There are sex jokes, and toilet humour as well as the novelty of swearing. But there are more clever jokes about moral panics (namely having the wrong target), censorship, racism, political apathy and even some parodies of World War 2. I agree with the film that American television does act stupidly, blocking swearing but showing violence deaths: I experienced this in New York City.Basically South Park Bigger Longer and Uncut is a fun film, which honours the show it's based on.
Fellowship of the Ring is a excellent start to the Lord of the Rings films. It made Peter Jackson into a mainstream director, helped made it stars into true A-listers, helped the New Zealand film industry, used some great CGI and helped made fantasy films into a major genre. It was also a risk for the people involved because if it had failed it would have destroyed many peoples careers and New Line Cinema properly would have gone bankrupt.The basic plot the film is the Dark Lord Sauren was aiming to take control of Middle-Earth and if it had the Ring he would be unstoppable. However, he lost the ring 2000 years before hand in battle. The Ring fell into the hands of a Hobbit called Bilbo Baggins and he ends up giving it to his nephew. Frodo is then send on a quest to Riverdale before a group was formed to take the Ring to the Mount Doom to destroy it. The group content four Hobbits (human like creatures that are half the size), two men, an elf and a dwarf. During there part of the quest they have to fight orcs and the Ring's power starts to corrupt some people.The book was a great story and J.R.R. Tolkien was great author. Peter Jackson was very loyal to his work in the first part of the trilogy. He only cuts out bits that didn't advance the story. I can understand his reasons for cutting out Tom Bombadillo, but it would have been nice to have a little nod to him. Jackson was also loyal to way Tolkien describes Middle-Earth and reading the books and watching the films it was exactly how I pictured it in my head. As well as the story it has great action, and little bits of humour, especially with the Hobbit and between Legolas and Gimli. The film also has a great cast, from stage actors like John Rhys-Davies and Ian McKellen, to big starts like Hugo Weaving and Liv Tyler, to people at the time who were modest actors like Elijah Wood and Viggo Mortensen. The cast had a very international favour, having actors from Britain, American, Australia and New Zealand.Tolkien's books have also have been interpreted in a number of ways. It has been seen as a metaphor for World War Two, a homage to the soldiers of World War One, a criticism of industrialisation and support a life in peace with nature. It was also influenced by the Viking Sagas and Celtic culture. The Elvish language was based on Welsh.If you plan on watching the Lord of the Rings films you should the extended versions. You should also consider reading the books. It does miss out a few things, but nothing too important.
Winter's Bone was the film that brought Jennifer Lawrence to attention of the world, being her first leading role and earning her first Oscar nomination. Lawrence gives a fantastic performance as lead character Ree Dolly, a tough as nails 17-year-old who does everything she can to protect her younger siblings, teaching them to hunt in this film set in rural poverty and it is clear to see why this film helped Lawrence get the Hunger Games role.Winter's Bone superbly acted film as Ree searches for her father, crossing the criminal underbelly of community and their refusal to talk, as well as tackling other themes, such as a lack of employment, leading to the army being the only option for some people, the culture of America that people refusal to seek help, that you need to be able to stand on your own two feet, a distrust of the police and the focus of a character on the crossroads between teenhood or adulthood.
Terminator 2: Judgment Day is one of the best action films ever made, that is a fact. It shows that a sequel can be even better then the original and expand on ideas set out in the first film.T2 takes place 10 years after the events of The Terminator, set in year 1995. In the year 2029 the Machines set a second Terminator, the T-1000 (Robert Patrick) to 1995 to find and kill John Connor (Edward Furlong) when he is a still a child. The Resistance also send someone to protect John, this time a T-101 (Arnold Schwarzenegger), the same type of Terminator sent to kill Sarah Connor in 1984. John Connor has become a juvenile delinquent, living foster care, who runs away from home, steals bank cards, rides a mini-bike and goes to the arcade. Sarah Connor (Sarah Connor) had become a Luddite type terrorist, attacking computer factories, and ends up being locked up in a psychiatric hospital. When The Terminator saves John, John get the machine to help him break his mother out of hospital. It is after that event that Sarah, John and the Terminator should stop Judgment Day from happening, by attacking Cyberdyne Systems, as well as stop the T-1000.Some elements of the plot may seen a re-tread of the plot in the first film, but James Cameron, being a skilled writer and director, expands on the ideas of the first film, showing more then just a chase movie. Sarah Connor has grown as a character, from the scared teenager to a strong, kiss-ass woman and it is Linda Hamilton's strongest role. Cameron has a love for strong female characters. Cameron focuses on two key elements on storyteller, plot and character, and that is why T2 is so good. As well as the action and sci-fi storyline, T2 is the eternal love-story between a boy and his robot. Seriously though, there is a strong relationship and chemistry between John and the Terminator, John teaching the Terminator to be more human, whilst the Terminator acts as a fatherly, guardian figure. Cameron also expands on the theme of fate and choice and that the idea of the future is not set in stone. The film also has some of the best one-liners ever in film.The action is non-stop, relentless and some of the best you will ever see. James Cameron uses both old-fashion techniques for scenes like the chase scene with the truck, but also used to at the time top end special effects, which is effective even now. This film was the first to have a budget over $100 Million, and it is money well spend. The pacing is great, and can not get board during this film.The Terminator is easily Arnold Schwarzenegger's best role because it requires very little acting. It also fun to see a role reversal in this sequel. Robert Patrick has a real menace as the T-1000, all he need was a look and didn't need to say much. He was a lot better then Kristanna Loken in Terminator 3: Rise of the Machines. It was also a smart move to make the T-1000 a regular sized man, not another muscle man. Linda Hamilton is tough and believable, whilst, Edward Furlong had a decent debut. I don't know what happened to him, from staring in T2 and American History X to staring in Uwe Boll films.The Terminator was excellent, Terminator 2, even better, Terminator 3, don't bother.An essential film.
I saw this film in the cinema because a friend of mine wanted to see it. I had not seen the first film and the horror genre doesn't normally appeal to me because it doesn't normally scare but just be violent. The type of horror films I do like are the Romero's Dead series and 28 Days Later.Hostel Part II is set soon after the events of the first film. The basic premise is that a gang called the Bloodhounds run a Hostel in Slovakia and auction the travellers on an e-Bay like website for people to torture and kill. Three female American travellers at the time were in Rome and planned on going to Prague, it was then when on the train to the Czech Republic that Axelle (Vera Jordanova) convict them to go to Slovakia. When out there they enjoy the local culture, meet some men, get drunk and go the local hot baths and spa. The travellers however were unaware that they are being auctioned on the net and two American men who had won arrived to act on their violence fantasies. One of the men was really up for torturing a young woman and the other more reluctant. As the film progresses the women get kidnapped and prepared to be tortured.Hostel Part II was a controversial film. It was violent and this time the focus of the violence was on women. This film is not going to to be a classic, it is not great, but its okay and this type of film does have an audience. My mate said that this film was more light hearted then the first film and did treat Slovakia with some respect. I thought that the director Eli Roth had a good scam with the first film because he insulted a country and got a first luxury holiday out of it. The acting was decent, most of the time acting in horror films is not of a high standard. It was well polished for a horror film, dark and grim and the violence was realistic for most of the film. There were a few cameos in the film. The film also has a couple of twist which I think work. One a small footnote, after watching the film I joked that what happens was going to happen to me when I went out to Australia: luckily it didn't.
Edgar Rice Burroughs of John Carter of Mars novels are often considered one of the fathers of modern sci-fi, influencing the likes of Star Wars and Flash Gordon. It was a project that was in development hell for years before Disney made it into a big budget action adventure film. Unfortunately for Disney John Carter is considered one of the biggest big office bombs in history and it has earned that distinction for good reason.In 1868 John Carter (Taylor Kitsch) is a grief stricken former Captain in the Confederate Army and mining for gold in Arizona. When fleeing from some anger Apaches John Carter stumbles into a cave and ends up being teleported to Mars. He finds out Mars is called Barsoom by the locals and that the two human civilisations, Helium and Zodanga are at war with each other are at war with each other and the brutal leader of Zodanga, Sab Than (Dominic West) is on the verge of winning, forcing a marriage with Helium's heir, Princess Dejah Thoris (Lynn Collins). John Carter ends up with a third race, the Tharks, a brutal strong race of green aliens with four arms and trucks. John Carter wants to return to Earth but he is a wanted man because of his abilities of super strength and jumping on the planet.It is clear director Andrew Stanton wanted to make a fun light hearted swashbuckling adventure with the occasion moment of darkness. But the despite the cast of respected actors and millions of dollars spend on the film John Carter is a surprisingly dull and outdated film. The effects of John Carter jumping around on Mars looked cheesy and more like an early attempt of someone trying to do Superman and whilst the airship battles do look impressive and the animators do a good attempt at giving the Tharks individual looks the CGI is still ropey. The action itself is bland and lacks invention: the best parts were the ship battles and superheroics, but it nothing that you haven't seen before. The film even has a dog like creature that follows John Carter and can run as flash as the flash which feels like a throwback.The film cost an estimated $250 Million, plus advertising, but it is hard to see where they spend the money. This is a film lacking any real star power (this is hardly a film with a Tom Cruise or Will Smith). John Carter was for the mostly filmed in Utah and it shows. The film just looks like it was filmed in the desert and just looked like Earth. Somewhere like Ayers Rock in Australia would have looked liked the Martian landscape and the film could have done something basic, like make the sky red. The film is most visually engaging when we are on historical Earth and the air ships.There are some positives to the film. The first is that Tharks do look alien and their culture is very brutal, it makes the Spartans from 300 look like they could win parenting of the year award. It was a real clash of cultures, though John Carter was a 19th Century man, so the radically different aliens should be even more of a shock when he sees the Tharks. Michael Giacchino also supplies another excellent score and add to his filmography.Kitsch does offer an almost Clint Eastwood element to his delivery when we meet him in 1868 and his performance was better to his roles in X-Men Origins: Wolverine and Battleship. Collins (another X-Men Origins: Wolverine alumni) supplies a surprisingly decent English accent and most of the cast is solid.Despite the source material being so influential the adaptation ends up being a fairly weak adventure and space opera. It is not as much fun as it wanted to be and it makes more appreciate films like Star Wars and Pirates of the Caribbean a little more.
Sci-fi is a popular stable of fiction and we have seen many great stories in the genre. It is a genre that has many avenues to explore and Joseph Kosinski's Oblivion certainly uses as many sci-fi elements and tropes as possible.The year is 2077 and it has been 60 years since Earth was invaded by an alien race, known as Scavengers, who blow up the Moon. Humanity repealed the invasion but it was a pyrrhic victory, as most of the planet has become uninhabitable and humanity now lives on a space colony on Titan.Jack Harper (Tom Cruise) and Victoria (Andrea Riseborough) are a mop up crew on Earth, with mission to maintain drones to protect sea based power generators from the reminding 'Scavs'. They are two weeks away to finishing their mission and go to Titan. But despite Jack having his memory erased he keeps having dreams about a mysterious woman (Olga Kurylenko). He is soon thrown into a conspiracy when the 'Scavs' try to capture Jack and make a signal to bring down cryo-pod in space contending the woman of Jack's dreams, a Russian woman called Julie Rusakova.Oblivion is compilation of sci-fi films and fiction and if you played a drinking game about spotting each of these sci-fi references: you would suffer liver failure by the end of the film. The clearest parallels are with Moon, following its set up, the plot points, the reveal and conspiracy, the other being Total Recall as Jack suffers from confessing memories, not knowing what is real sense of reality is and ending joining the rebel forces. Other sci-fi elements used include the manipulation of reality by a distance Big Brother like entity who creates a common enemy like in Nineteen-Eighty Four, to ideas and scenes used in I, Robot, Independence Day, 2001: A Space Odyssey and The 6th Day. Even the art direction within the tower shares a look with white clear look of I, Robot, Star Trek (2009) 2001: A Space Odyssey and Portal and the imagery of the destroyed Earth looks like it was influenced by The Road and Planet of the Apes.Like Kosinski's previous film Tron Legacy, Oblivion is impressive to look at, with excellent action and lush production design, but the film never fully fleshes out its ideas. It was clear that Kosinski was committed to the film, it was based on his own unpublished graphic novel. He wanted to make more then a sci-fi actioneer and make something more thoughtful as it looks at themes of reality, identity and manipulation. It was certainly a noble attempt but Kosinski lets his film drag and it is a little too easy to think about other sci-fi films during the proceedings.Oblivion certainly felt like it kept to its graphic novel origins: it had grand images, designs and concepts and its strong action. The reveal about who the Scavs really are would worked better on the page but that is because in a comic book it is harder to see what is coming then in a film because of the why they are promoted. Some of the dialogue also felt too comic book like, being very clunky and unnatural.The major fault with the film is it does drag and has at times a slow pace. This is of course a part of the attempt to make Oblivion into a more meaningful film then being an action film. But it does not bring anything new to the table and many of the plot points are predictable, especially if you have seen Moon. Oblivion's editor needed to be a little more ruthless.Whilst Kosinski needs to work a bit more at bringing out his themes and fleshing out idea, he's an accomplished visualist. He does give us a stark view of an empty, destroyed Earth, crumbling away and contrasting it to the ultra-modern, clean look of the tower. Kosinski knows how to shot impressive action sequences and he gives us a lot, from aerial dog fights to gun battles to fist fights. One of the best moments is when the camera follows a drone causing carnage during a battle.Oblivion certainly has a top cast. Cruise continues to show off his leading man credentials and he is a solid presence throughout the film; though he gets to be with two women who are nearly 20 years his junior. It is good to see Riseborough finally getting a major role in a Hollywood film and she gave a really good, quiet and naturalistic performance throughout. Morgan Freeman too looked like he was having fun with his supporting but pivotal role. But Game of Thrones star Nikolaj Coaster-Waldau was wasted and underused in his role.Like Tron Legacy, Kosinski brings a major French band, this time M83, to provide the score. Whilst there are some similarities to the score for Inception, it still is a fine score.Oblivion borrows too many ideas and concepts from sci-fi and does not create enough of its own. It is still a solidly entertaining film with its action and intrigue it creates and the actors were certainly demanded to give good performances during the film.A final note, Oblivion offers a true cinematic rarity; they play a Led Zeppelin song! Please visit www.entertainmentfuse.com
With the title Abraham Lincoln: Vampire Hunter and Wanted director Timur Bekmambetov bringing his highly stylized approach, here is a movie that really wants a cult audience. It'll be an uphill battle, as it frustrates as much as it satisfies.As a young boy, Abraham Lincoln (Benjamin Walker) saw two of the biggest blights on humanity: slavery and vampirism. It was personified in the form of his father's boss, Jack Barts (Marton Csokas). After his father (Joseph Mawle) is unable to pay his debts, Jack kills Lincoln's mother (Robin McLeavy) in front of him. Hungry for revenge, a skilled vampire hunter named Henry Struges (Dominic Cooper) teaches Lincoln about vampires and how to kill them using an axe lined with silver. In Springfield, Illinois, Abraham is given targets to kill as he studies to be a lawyer, but his quest evolves from a mission of vengeance to a ideological one to rid the world of slavery and vampires as his political career grows alongside his vampire-hunting exploits.Abraham Lincoln: Vampire Hunter delivers on the action, which is when it's most inventive and fun. Bekmambetov gives us a bloody experience as Lincoln decapitates his way through vampires and swings his axe in such slow motion that Zack Snyder would be embarrassed. Bekmambetov knows how to shoot an action scene and the fight choreography was top notch, though the editing in some scenes was a bit too choppy (no pun intended) and hard to follow. Bekmambetov also employs a very direct use of 3D as he points guns and blades in your face, but much of it was blurry and unfocused as with most poor post-conversions.Sadly, the $70-million budget was all too clear. The CGI replacements were rather obvious and the Battle of Gettysberg was very limited in scope, taking away the epic feeling one would expect from such an iconic battle. A horse stampede was also ruined by the weak CGI and choppy editing.Seth Grahame-Smith adapted his own novel here and he has in fact come up with some interesting ideas on vampirism to add to the already rich lore, like why silver is so effective on vampires, why they cannot kill another vampire and how they are able to stand the sunlight.But at the same time the screenplay has problems. The first half of the movie was fun and action-packed but when Lincoln becomes more involved in politics it starts to take itself way too seriously. You can't make serious points about racism and slavery when the man making them has been hacking creatures of the night to death. The film needed to loosen up and have more fun with its premise.As a character Lincoln does evolve from wanting revenge to widening his crusade against a menace, but he story is sluggish at times and skips major moments of his life, fast-forwarding to when he becomes president. It felt like large chunks of the movie were missing and some character actions just happen out of the blue. Hopefully this will result in a director's cut home release.Judging Abraham Lincoln: Vampire Hunter as a historical piece would be an exercise in foolishness, but I will say this: for a movie that treats the issues of racism and slavery with dead seriousness, it is hard to believe the portrayals of friendly relations between the races at times.Abraham Lincoln: Vampire Hunter serves as Walker's first major movie role, so quite the undertaking for a rookie. He was strongest in full presidential mode, making his grant speeches and leading his nation, but early on he was a bland hero who disappears off the screen compared to the more colourful Cooper (who had a very interesting The Crow-like back story) who seemed to have more fun with his role. Rufus Sewell plays a villain who lacked any real menace or fear and Csokas gave a messy, scenery-chewing performance not helped by some of the film's worst dialogue. As the romantic lead, Mary Elizabeth Winstead is adequate, giving Mary Todd Lincoln plenty of charm.Abraham Lincoln: Vampire Hunter is sadly a cheap-looking movie that took itself too seriously, but it is certainly not the worst vampire movie ever made. Stylized action fans will take some enjoyment from it, but it's not going to be the cult hit it strives to be.5.5/10 Please visit www.playeraffinity.com
After years of rejection one of the greatest filmmakers in history won his well-earned Oscar for The Departed. Martin Scorsese, could, and should have won for Taxi Driver, Raging Bull, Goodfellas, Casino or Gangs of New York, but he has at least avoid being in the ranks of great directors who never won an Oscar like Stanley Kubrick and Alfred Hitchcock. The Departed is based on a brilliant Hong Kong film Infernal Affairs, which was itself was attempting to be a Hollywood thriller. Seeing that Infernal Affairs was a brilliant film which had two good sequels Plan B Entertainment did the wisest thing it could, get the best writer and director available, William Monahan and of course Scorsese.South Boston is a famously Irish Catholic area of America, it's underworld is run by Frank Costello (Jack Nicholson), a ruthless gangster who gets up to usual activities like drugs trafficking, extortion, theft, etc... He recruits a boy who trains to be a police officer, Colin Sullivan (Matt Damon); who becomes his mole within the Massachusetts State Police. Another recruit was Billy Costigan (Leonardo DiCaprio), a young man whom family is notoriously dodgy. He gets recruited by Captain Queenan (Martin Sheen) and Staff Sergeant Dignam (Mark Wahlberg in his best performance) to go deep undercover and infuriate Costello's organisation. So the mob and police have moles in each other, and both men raise up the ranks within their organisations. Sullivan does well for himself, joining a special unit, making money, has a good apartment need the state building and forms a relationship with Dr. Madolyn Madden (Vera Farmiga). Whilst Costigan has to deal with the stress of being undercover, having live in a violence world, deal with the enforcer Mr. French (Ray Winstone) and has to see Madolyn. Both the mob and the police discover they have moles in their organisations and a deadly cat and mouse develops as the two men have to find out who the other is.These is an excellent remake, translating the setting well to America. It keeps the basic plot of Infernal Affairs, adding a few elements from Infernal Affairs 2, but Scorsese and Monahan ensure that they make their own film: an excellent thriller, not just about crime and police investigation, but about the ideas of identity, betrayal and the psychological strain this world would have on a person. Both the mob and the police are very macho worlds where people need to be tough to survive. These are complex characters in a difficult world, where loyalties can be made and broken. Scorsese and Monahan also tells a complex plot with a number of things going on. It is a film about the conflict between the police and organised crime. Scorsese also shows his skill behind the camera once again, showing some excellent images and a world of violence. He brings you into this complex world.They is a great cast in this film, Leonardo DiCaprio, Matt Damon, Jack Nicholson, Martin Sheen. As stated, Mark Wahlberg was in his best role and could have won an Oscar for Best Supporting Actor: a shame he torched it all in 2008. There is also a good comic moment between Wahlberg and Alec Baldwin. Vera Farmiga also shows her talent and is now doing pretty well for herself.2006 was an excellent year for film: The Departed, Casino Royale, Children of Men, Pan's Labyrinth, The Lives of Others, The Last King of Scotland, Letters from Iwo Jima, all worthy films that could have won awards at the 79th Academy Awards.
Mickey Rourke is an actor who has suffered ups and downs in his career. In the 80s he did star in popular films and he was respected: but he thrown it all away when he turned his back on acting in 1991 to become a boxer. He career in the 90s fell into the doldrums. It was only in 2005 Rourke won back the respect of audiences playing Marv in Sin City. The Wrestler was the final act of his acting rehabilitation was completed, earning himself an Oscar nod.Randy "The Ram" Robinson (Mickey Rourke) was a popular wrestler in the 1980s, but by 2008 his career has fared and he is pasted his prime. He wrestles in New Jersey for die-hard fans and it is only purpose in life. Randy work in the back room of a supermarket and he is estrange from his daughter Stephanie (Evan Rachel Wood) and he spends a lot of time in a sleazy strip club: his best friend is an ageing stripper Pam, stage-named Cassidy (Marisa Tomei). Randy is offered the chance to wrestler a re-match with his old rival the Ayatollah (Ernest Miller) (that's political correctness for you). But after a hardcore wrestling match Randy suffers a heart attack. His doctor tells him he can not wrestle any more and he is forced to retire. Randy gets a new job working behind a deli counter, and tries to rebuild his relationship with his daughter. He also starts to get closer with Pam, the two being kindred spirits. But the pull of wrestle continues to lead Randy down a path of self-destruction.The Wrestler is of course Rourke's film: he deserved an Oscar nod, and he does offer a powerful performance, the best in his career. The scene at beach was worthy of that alone. This is a film about someone destruction, particularly because of their sport/passion, like in Raging Bull. But Rourke's performs only tells half the story. They are two other good performers in this film: Tomei and Wood. Tomei is not a one-dimensional character, she is a loving mother who sees Randy as a friend. She is someone who wants the best for her son, and wants to move away from her old life. Wood is an excellent actress ever since she came onto the scene with her powerhouse performance in Thirteen. Again she offers a good performance as a young woman who is bitter because of her father's abandonment. They are sadly some moment of overacting, particularly with her hand gestures, but it was still a good performance.The Wrestler is Darren Aronofsky's first film since The Fountain, a marmite film: you either love it or hate it. With the Wrestler Aronofsky is playing it safer: telling a simple drama. Aronofsky casts good actors in the film, but not as emotionally powerful as Requiem for a Dream. Aronofsky uses hand-held cameras to great effort, having a number of steady cam shot following characters in continuous shots. It not like with Paul Greengrass whom films look like they are directed by a amateur with a small camcorder. The wrestling scene were excellently handled, and brutal, particularly the hardcore match. It was just an example of sado-masochism. Aronofsky also shows the gritty, industrial nature of this area of America. This is not the glamour or high live of the big cities or suburbania. This is a grim existence, and cinematographer Maryse Alberti does well filming The Wrestler in a almost documentary feel where you can feel the dirt.It could be argued that the screenwriter Robert D. Siegel wrote a darker version of a Rocky film. But he does tell a emotional story with a lot of depth behind it. This was a fine screenplay telling how someone can be their own worst enemy.This a worthy drama film, with excellent acting and good writing and direction behind it.8.4/10
Documentary are often a tricky thing to put into cinemas with them either trying to send an important message or simply a labour of love. Man on Wire is an example of the latter.Man on Wire tells the story of Philippe Petit who committed the 'artistic crime of the century'. He was the man who formed and walked a tightrope between the North and South Towers of the Word Trade Center. The film tells the story of how Petit comes up with the idea and the preparations for the walk and of course a little be about his background.This is a very interest, compelling film that has many ideas to keep the audience's attention. There is character drama about why they did this act, the clandestine operation their had to undertake, the preparations the group had to do, the engineering side their had to do and previous tightrope attempts. The film is filled with artistic people, with Petit being a very eccentric character. This film tells a simple but important story; what ever you dream is you must find a way to fulfil it.James Marsh shows himself to be a very competent director, mixing interviews, stock footage, photographs and re-enactments. He crafts and edit's a good film and early on in the film criss-crossing between the events of the walk with Petit's early life. Marsh has a good eye for images, picking the ones he wanted to use and had a excellent ear for music. He allows Petit to be is eccentric self, whilst the other people who were involved were a lot more down-the-Earth.A very worthy documentary.
After premiering at the Toronto Film Festival The Raid was hyped up as one of the best action film in a decade. With that hype behind it there was a risk it could have disappointed, but it did not. The Raid is a very entertaining action film that will please fans of Tony Jaa, Bruce Lee and martial arts films in general. Like The Avengers it made of impressive action scenes followed by impressive scenes, the highlight being the hallway fight with Iko Uwais stabbing his way through the badguys. Uwais is a great martial artist but he is not made out to be superhero, people can hit him, he can feel paid and Yayan Ruhian too is also a very talented fighter. The action is bloody and brutal, but director Gareth Edwards not linger or enjoy pain: he gets the right balance to satisfy our blood lush. Edwards uses an instant hand-held style that lets you feel the frenzy of the fights and action, but the fights themselves well shot, well edited and you can tell what is happening in the film. There is no need for shaky cam. At times the film plays like a survival horror with the criminals coming at the police like zombies, stabbing through walls like a slasher villain or jumping out apartments like in the Resident Evil games. The Raid also plays like the Warriors as gangs hunt our heroes for a main guy. The Raid is an entertaining film.
The Lady Vanishes is one of Alfred Hitchcock's most famous British films, and critically loved. There are good reasons why.Set in a fictional Eastern-European country, a train is held up, including a number of Britons. One of them is a English woman, Iris Henderson (Margaret Lockwood), a young woman who is going back to England to get married. After an 'accident' when a flower pot falls on Iris she befriends Ms. Froy (Dame May Witty), a middle-aged governess. Ms. Froy offers to look after Iris, even giving her tea and shares a compartment with her. However after Iris falls asleep Ms. Froy has disappeared. The passengers in the compartment tell Iris there was no English woman with her and so do the train staff. Iris is nearly convicted that she imagined Ms. Froy's existence. But one man believes her, Gilbert (Michael Redgrave), a man she found arrogant but both grow closer. They look for evidence and it soon becomes clear that there is a spy-ring in the works. They need to find Ms. Froy before it is too late.Most of Hitchcock's have a similar plot, an ordinary person thrown into extraordinary circumstances (this time a woman). But Hitchcock is just so damn good at it. The Lady Vanishes even shares some plot elements with The 39 Steps. What Hitchcock does so well is pacing and keeps the mystery going. You have to wait have all the pieces until you know what the whole of the story is. There is fast pacing, keeping the action going, there are even giving us some good action scenes. There are also moment of humour, especially from Naunton Wayne and Basil Radford as Charters and Caldicott. The film also pocks fun as of British characteristics. Within the film is there are a number of colourful characters, and make you care about them, giving them depth and a backstory. There is a good cast, especially the leads who became stars after this film. There are a few plot holes and the ending is hokey, but The Lady Vanishes is an excellent film, especially for Hitchcock's fans. I personally do like Hitchcock's British films.There have been attempts to copy The Lady Vanishes plot. A recent example is Flightplan which is no where need as good as the Lady Vanishes. Leave Hitchcock films to Alfred Hitchcock.
After the success of Lord of the Rings: Fellowship of the Ring exceptions were sky-high. Peter Jackson undertook an epic production, shooting all three Lord of the Rings back-to-back and making the most epic trilogy ever. Here Jackson makes an ever more epic film, and make it even better then the first.After the events of the first film, The Fellowship of the Rings has broken, Boromir (Sean Bean) has been killed by Orcs, Gandalf (Sir Ian McKellen) has been killed by a Balrog, Frodo (Elijah Wood) and Sam (Sean Astin) have taken the Ring eastwards, Merry (Dominic Monaghan) and Pippin (Billy Boyd) had been captured by Saruman's (Christopher Lee) Orcs, and Aragorn (Viggo Mortensen), Legolas (Orlando Bloom) and Gimli (John Rhys-Davies) are on the chase. Things look bad for the free people of Middle-Earth, Saruman and Sauron have formed a powerful alliance, and the King of Rohan, Theoden (Bernard Hill) has fallen under Saruman's spell. The three groups take their own paths in the quest. Frodo and Sam capture Gollum (Andy Serkis), the other creature who craves the ring. He is only creature that could lead Frodo into Mordor, but Sam has an obvious distrust for him. Merry and Pippen end up escaping from the Orcs and hide in the forest of Fangorn. They end up meeting Treebeard (voiced by John Rhys-Davies), an Ent, a peaceful treelike creature. It is up to the hobbits to help inspire the powerful Ents into conflict against Saruman. Aragon and co. end up finding out that Gandalf has been resurrected as an even more powerful wizard. Gandalf leads this part of the Fellowship to save Theoden and to go to war with Saruman's forces.The Lord of the Rings books are one of the best fantasy books around, with a complex story and a long history. It would have been difficult for another to convert them into films, and many people were attached, from the Beatles in the sixties, to even the great Stanley Kubrick. But Peter Jackson manages it by making 3 long epic films (even better with the extended cuts), with top of the range special effects. He ensures that the films is as loyal as possible, whilst ensure that a wider film audience would enjoy them. The Two Towers follows the premise of book, and there are only a few scenes that are changed. Jackson follows many of the key themes, like Treebeard's resistance to fight, with Treebeard represent nature against the tide of industrialisation of Saruman. They is also Gollum's longing for the ring and how it takes it's toll on Frodo. There is also Gollum's schizophrenia, a brilliant element in both the film and the book. Jackson's direction is excellent, creating a serious tone for the most part, about the darkness that the ring brings, the tough conditions of war and travelling a medieval style world, and the excitement and dangers of adventure. This is a world where people die, a dangerous, dirty world. But Jackson does know when to lighten the mood, with some moments of comment, mainly from Gimli, and have brilliant actions scenes. The Battle of Helms Deep is one of the best battles put to screen. Jackson shows he is one of the best director's around, mixing, action, drama, comedy, and excellent special effects. The costumes are brilliant, and the design of Gollum is fantastic. Despite all this, the film does deviate from the book unnecessarily, like an action sequence when the men of Rohan fight Wang (wolf) riding Orcs, and Aragon disappears because of it. But the main problem is with the characterisation of Faramir (David Wenham). In the book Faramir is depicted as a kind lord, a good leader and a fine warrior: he knows of the corrupting influence of the ring, so doesn't want to know anything about it. In the film he is depicted a much darker light, showing him to be a harsh person, willing to use brutal methods, and tries to claim the ring for himself. This was not needed, and the only real dark spot for the film.The cast is terrific. Viggo Mortensen is of course a great actor, who plays Aragorn was brilliant, so was Andy Serkis as Gollum. There are obviously talented actors like Elijah Wood, Sean Astin, Dominic Monaghan, Christopher Lee, Sir Ian McKellen, Hugo Weaving, Cate Blanchett and Liv Tyler, who all do well in their roles. Sean Astin grows, turning Sam turns from a slightly stupid character to someone who becomes more worldly wise. The film also helped kicked-start the careers of Karl Urban and David Wenham.A brilliant film, the extended cut is a must see.
After making two amazing epics, somehow Peter Jackson was able to save the best till last. Here we have the amazing conclusion to the War of the Ring, a brilliant adaption of a fantasy classic.Despite the victory at Helm's Deep and the defeat of Saruman (Christopher Lee) they is still a lot to do for the free people of Middle-Earth and the Fellowship of the Ring. After Pippen (Billy Boyd) seeing into the Palantír the Fellowship discover Sauron's plan of invading Gondor, and take their main city Minas Tirith. Gandalf (Sir Ian McKellen) and Pippen go to Minas Tirith which is under the rule of Denethor (John Noble) who has fallen into madness. The kingdom of Rohan lead by King Theoden (Bernard Hill) attempts to muster enough of his own forces to fight, but lacks the numbers. This forces Aragon (Viggo Mortensen), Legolas (Orlando Bloom) and Gimli (John Rhys-Davies) to take a dangerous path to ensure victory is possible. And in the midst of the wide battles is Frodo (Elijah Wood) and Sam (Sean Astin) attempt to take the One Ring to Mount Doom, under the supposed help of Gollum (Andy Serkins). But Gollum too has his own plans to lead Frodo and Sam to their deaths and take the ring for himself. There are also sub-plots to the action, like Éowyn (Miranda Otto) and Merry's (Dominic Monaghan) desire to fight in the battle, Aragon's doubts to become King and Arwen's (Liv Tyler) fate being tired to the fate of the war and the ring.Peter Jackson directs and co-writes a faithfully adaption of final novel in the trilogy. This is a an action-packed film that had drama at his it heart. It is an adventure film where people do die and the consequences of failure are sky high. This is the least comedic out of all three films, but it's better because of it. Jackson still adds a sense of fun to a mostly serious film and the battle scenes are some of the best ever put to film. This is a more loyal adaption to the previous film which ruined the Faramir character. They are some things that were left out which would nice to see in the film, like characters like the Prince Imrahil, the only Gondor man capable of leadership because Denethor lost his mind and Faramir was injured. It would have been good to see Saruman taking over the Shire like at the end of the book, the only really major thing that was left out. But for the most part changes were made in the film were minor or necessary to trim down the film. This is the film with some of the best lines in the series, like Aragorn's speeches and Sam carrying Frodo (that bit was taken straight from the book).There is top quality acting. Andy Serkis should have had a Oscar nod for best supporting actor. Viggo Mortensen, Sean Astin and Sir Ian McKellen are of particular note. It is also Elijah Wood's and Orlando Bloom's best performances.This film is a great example of excellent art direction, film music and costume design. Everyone who was involves deserves credit.The Extended Cut is the best way to watch this film. The scene with Bruce Spence as The Mouth of Sauron is worth it alone.A must see.
Some people claim that Braveheart is the best epic movie ever made: they are really wrong, and is one of the worst films ever made. Gladiator one the other hand is a very good movie, showing that Ridley Scott is a master film-making, showing that he can do any genre and helped make Russell Crowe into a true A-lister.Gladiator tells the story of Maximus Meridius (Russell Crowe), a Roman General who fought in the war against Germanian tribes. After a massive victory for the Roman, Emperor Marcus Aurelius (Richard Harris) and his children Commodus (Joaquin Phoenix) and Lucilla (Connie Nielsen) arrive at the frontline. Marcus Aurelius doubts Commodus abilities to become Emperor and asks Maximus to protect Rome by bringing back the Republic and make the Senate powerful again. However before Maximus could do anything Commodus murders his father and arrests Maximus, planning to kill him. When Maximus he returns to his farm and finds his wife and son were murder and he gets captured by Commodus forces. He is sold into slavery and then a gladiator in a backwater in North Africa. In Rome Commodus decides to reintroduce gladiatorial contests in honour of his father who had banned them. Because of Maximus and his comrades success in North Africa they get a chance to fight in Rome. Maximus becomes so success that the people of Rome love him and becomes a challenge to the Emperor.What Gladiator does well is fight and battle scene. Scott brings in realistic violence which wasn't allowed during the golden age of sword and scandal epics. It's a gore fest, but its a good gore fest. The fights were brilliant. The battle scene at the beginning of film is one of the best ever in cinema, must better then anything in Braveheart. The battle was realistic, showing how the Roman army would have fought against a Barbarian army. Compare it to anything in Braveheart which was a farce in all respects. The acting in the film is top-notch. Russell Crowe and Joaquin Phoenix were on the top of their game and this film is an example of why they became a-listers. Oliver Reed offered the audience his swansong and even Omid Djalili offered a little light relief. As well Ridley Scott tries to show Commodus as a more human character, that he did have some redeemable features like his love for his nepthew. The characters are not completely good or completely evil. It doesn't try to moralise the issues. Compare to the God-awful Braveheart where they is no attempt to show the characters as human or realistic, and that all English characters were pure evil and all Scots were goodness and like. The film also had a solid script behind it, which is very quotable and has a good, classical story behind it. It has a old fashion feel to it, and Ridley Scott said that he was influenced by films like Ben-hur and Spartacus. This is one of my brother's favourite films.However, one of the big problems with the film is that one of the best scenes was right at the beginning of the film, similar to Saving Private Ryan, which means that nothing each can in the film can compare to it. As well, whilst most of the film is realist, they are some aspects which are not so realist, like when Tigris of Gaul enters into the Colosseum, but those thinks are minor and doesn't affect the enjoyment.I criticise Braveheart for its historical inaccuracies, but don't do the same with Gladiator. That's because Braveheart was pretending to be a historical film and telling the facts (it doesn't), Gladiator also set itself out to be a fictional story and nothing a rewrite of history.Whether Gladiator deserved to win all the Oscars it got is debatable, but it is a very entertaining film.
The British film About a Boy was considered one of the best of 2002, being placed on the American Film Institute's top 10 list of that year and has a 93% rating on Rotten Tomatoes. But does it hold up? Will (Hugh Grant) is a selfish 38-year-old man who leads a live of leisure. He lives off the royalties of a song his father wrote so does not need to work at all. One of his big interests is woman and discovers the untapped market of single mothers. This is how he meets Marcus (Nicholas Hoult), a 12-year-old boy with a depressed mother (Toni Collette) and is a social outcast. After Marcus' mother tries to kill herself Will and Marcus are forced into each other's lives and an unusual friendship starts to develop.The winning aspects of About a Boy is a witty script by the Weitz brothers and Peter Hedges and a great performance by Grant. Grant is great playing a selfish, self-centred man thinking only of himself who is forced to grow up and become responsible. Grant has great comic timing through and given good lines throughout. Some of the best moments is the use of narration and when it relations to the actual conversations on screen. There are natural relationships between the characters and the drama was well handled.The rest of the cast was also strong and the Weitz brothers certainly keep the film going at both a steady pace and make it visual. There is strong chemistry between everyone and the Weitz Brothers know where to find a good editor. They also know how to subtly move the camera and use trick to enhance the film and About a Boy is easily their best film.It is not a perfect film like the Rotten Tomatoes scores suggest and the 7.2 on IMDb is more fair. If you do not like drama-comedy About a Boy is not going to win you over and this film has more of a wit then outright laughs. Plus the third act felt very rushed as Will finds a love interest in the form of Rachel (Rachel Weisz, who was underused) and Marcus suddenly befriending an older girl, Ellie (Natalia Tena) when we should have seen more of her. Plus the children at the school and their behaviour did not feel real, it did feel like what real children do or act like.About a Boy is a fair enough film, but it is not quite my cup of tea.
Rambo has finally come full-circle after the success of First Blood and 2 poor sequels. Along with Rocky Balboa, this film has helped kick-start Stallone's career and give his title character a heart and soul again. Rambo is also re-introduced to a new generation.Rambo is set 20-years after the events Rambo III. Rambo is an older character and living in Thailand as a boatman and capturing snakes for locals. In neighbouring Burma the civil-war against the Karen people was becoming more brutal and dangerous. The Burmese army was using a extremely brutal commander who struck at villages at will, killing masses of people, forced boys to join the army, force people to run over minefields for bets and capturing women to perform sex acts. A group of Christain doctors planned to go Burma to work in a village and believing they could make a difference. They ask Rambo to take them but he refuses at first until Sarah (Julie Benz) convicts him. Whilst in Burma the village the Christains were in was attacked by the Burmese army and the missionaries captured. The head of the Christains ask Rambo for assistances, asking him to take a group of mercenaries. The mercenaries think Rambo is no more then a old boatman and don't want him involved in the mission. But as they witness a small group of Burmese soldiers torturing some civilians Rambo is brought into action and convicts the mercenaries all they can to save the missionaries.In Hollywood there is a trend to revitalise franchises from the 80s, partly to save some actors characters. This happened with Terminator, Die Hard and Indiana Jones and there are talks about sequels to Lethal Weapon, Mad Max and Ghostbusters. Stallone's career had really hit the rocks after flops like Judge Dreed and a remake of Get Carter. Rocky and Rambo revisits basically got him back on task.The success of Batman Begins and Casino Royale show that re-boots do work and that's what happened with Rambo. Whilst Rambo II and III were cartoonary Rambo takes a more realistic approach, which worked for Saving Private Ryan, the Nolan Batman and the new Bond. Rambo is a more humble and a more reluctant hero and has an even more bleak out-look. Rambo doesn't do any super-hero feats and is a more down to Earth character and the violence much more realistic. It was good to see how brutal warfare can be and more serious.First Blood had a serious message about the treatment of Vietnam veterans. The second two films were just Neo-con pieces of trash. Here Rambo finds his soul again and tackle a serious issue; the Burmese civil war and the pile of the Karen people. The series fines it soul again, criticising a really horrible regime which we have all seen on the news. The film is very popular with the Karen rebels and Burmese critical of the regime.Stallone offers a strong performance, and some of the other actors are note worthy, especially Matthew Marsden as Schoolboy and Graham McTavish as the foul-mouthed head of the mercenaries. However, Julie Benz was more hit and miss.This film was derided by some critics and has a low rating on Rotten Tomatoes. But this is a case of the critics getting it wrong, with the film popular with fans and non-fans of the series, and has a good rating on IMDb. I personally think you don't need to see the previous Rambo films to enjoy this one, but First Blood is worth watching.Rambo is also a surprising short-film, lasting 1 hour and 20 minutes. It handles everything it needs to and doesn't drag the film out.Rambo is a bloody entertaining film (and I mean that in more ways then one). The film has the highest kill-per-minute rate in film (hell yeah!), but surely that honour shouldn't go to Terminator 3 seening nuclear bomb kill 3 billion people? There is talk about another sequel, but I feel that the film and the series ended nicely and a sequel isn't needed.
Notorious is a highly regarded classic from Alfred Hitchcock and it is an taut, tense thriller, that is entertaining and stands alongside his best films. It is an entertaining romp of a film, having many Hitchcockian tropes, an ordinary untrained person forced into an extraordinary situation, plenty of espionage skulduggery and a complicated romance. Cary Grant and Ingrid Bergman are both excellent together as spy and handler who end up being lovers and the film is enhanced by Hitchcock's direction. Hitchcock keeps a fast pace, making sure there is no fat in the film and he knows where to place and move the camera to heighten the tension during scenes as the stakes get higher during the film. A superb classic thriller.
With a script that entered into production in 2001 Pride and Glory was one of the most highly prized screenplays in Hollywood, with names like Mark Wahlberg and Hugh Jackman attached to the leading roles. But because of the attack on 11th September 2001 the idea of film about dirty NYPD officers would have been in bad taste. It proposed until 2008 and had Ed Norton and Colin Farrell in the lead roles. So was it worth the wait?Pride and Glory tells the story of a family of Irish American men who are members of the NYPD. Ray (Ed Norton) is a skilled investigator and a plain clothes detective, whilst his brother-in-law Jimmy (Colin Farrell) is a mid-ranking uniformed officer. The family seem close but all have their problems, Ray is suffering from guilt of a previous case gone wrong and his marriage falling apart. His brother Francis Jr. (Noah Emmerich), a senior station chief, is having to support his wife whom suffering from cancer and their father Francis Sr. (Jon Voight) is a even more senior police officer and a borderline alcoholic. Only Jimmy seems to have a strong family life. The family and officers are called into action when four of Francis Jr. officers are killed in action and all of them are colleagues of Jimmy. Ray is assigned the case but soon discovers that it a much more complex case of a simple shooting. Jimmy and his colleagues had been running amok within Francis Jr.'s station as the man is struggling with his personal life. Jimmy is a corrupt cop, selling drugs, robbing and acting like a paid assassin. He uses violence and imitation to get revenge and retrieve money his crew has lost. But Ray is slowly closing in on his brother-in-law and a professional and personal conflict is about to arise.Gavin O'Conner is an effective director, trying to make a gritty and violence film about the NYPD. His effects are noble, he does not tone down the violence and the physical poverty that some people would have to live in. He films it in a slightly grey ting and uses hand-held cameras very effectively, giving the film a realistic and almost documentary style to it. There is also strong performances from Norton and Farrell (though he is forced into angry mode for most of the film). Voight is also pretty good throughout the film. But some of the supporting cast members were weaker in comparison, particular Emmerich who did not seem to match Norton or Farrell.What makes the film not as strong as it should be is the script. It should have been a simple straight-forward police-thriller and attempt to be a update of the Al Pacino film Serpico. It attempted to be realistic and could and should have shown how corrupt cops can work in a modern setting and how other police officers would investigate them. But the screenwriters of O'Conner and Joe Carnahan do two big problems: first is that it's a bit unrealistic that a whole family this day and age would all be cops and even more unlikely a senior father cop could assign cases to his sons. In real life wouldn't the police authorities split them up to ensure there is no favouritism? Second is the plot is bogged down with too many sub-plots: it's noble of the writers to bring about some extra character development, but there was too much that detracts from the main plot of the film and some areas lead to no where, like the journalist sub-plot. What the two writers could have done was either cut out most of the sub-plots to make a tort film, making the film longer, extend the sub-plots and made the film a bit longer or really extend everything about the film and a make an effective 'The Wire' type TV series. The film also suffers from so very silly, unrealistic scenes like Ray and Jimmy clearing a bar and then having a big fist fight. The dialogue too was weak, suffering from the usual cop-film clichés we have all heard before. Finally the film also drags a little in the beginning and goes a little silly in the end. It was the middle part of the film which was the best.There was potential in the film but it was not fully realised. It needed some re-writes before it should have been made. But it is a noble effort of film.
Akira Kurosawa is not just regarded as one of the best directors Japan has ever produced, he is widely seen as one of the best ever to live, making films like Seven Samurai, Yojimbo and Throne of Blood. One of his most highly regarded is Rashomon, an ambitious film with its storytelling and narrative methods and a highly influential film, even to this day.In Feudal Japan a Woodcutter (Takashi Shimura) tells the story of a trial of bandit, Tajomaru (Toshiro Mifune) is accused of murdering a samurai (Masayuki Mori) and each story about the same events contradicts the previous witness.Rashomon is a case of Chinese Whisper as a story keeps evolving and changing as a new layer of the story is revealed to the audience. Each narrator is unreliable as they tell a story in their own self-interest and one of the big themes is that humanity is selfish. Rashomon was a film released in 1950 where Japan was still recovering from World War II, seen the atomic bomb dropped on Hiroshima and Nagasaki and a new war was brewing in the Korean Peninsula. It can be argued that some humans are selfish, from small things to the bigger political and international picture. I don't agree with this viewpoint because I have a more optimistic view, but I can still make the case that nation states are selfish.Another theme is the search for the truth. Scientist Karl Popper believed that a hypothesis needs to constantly needs to be tested to be proved true and philosopher John Stuart Mill believed that they was no point suppressing the truth because it will come out eventually. This could be implied to Rashomon as each story tests the information of the provided by previous witness. As an audience we are like the people in the cave in Plato's The Republic: where we only see a limited prospection because we have only need have a limited view of the world which we see as the truth until we get to see the wider world.The final theme is a look at sexual politics and sexism, as the samurai is willing to disown his wife after she is raped and the bandit stating that women are weak, after he raped her. But as the story unfolds all three characters are relieved to be not very pleasant and vile to some degree.At 88 minutes Kurosawa delivered a tout, thoughtful film filmed that is ambitious and wonderfully made. It expresses all it wanted to in this short space of time and is very subversive in its approach to deconstructing of traditional narrative storytelling. It is clear why Rashomon is so influential, with different viewpoints of an event being used by Tarantino, Stanley Kubrick's The Killing, the sci-fi film Source Code, Vantage Point and Hoodwinked.One bit of criticism I do have towards the film is towards Mifune's performance which weak considering the source material and my God did he have an annoying laugh.Rashomon is a seminal film, a film should watch at least once. Rashomon is well crafted and important because of its place in film history.
There will be car chases, there will be violence, there will be social and political commentary, there will be cross-bows and most of all, there will be Mel Gibson.Mad Max 2: the Road Warrior takes places a few years after Mad Max. The world had gone to war over oil and the apocalypse has happened. In the Australian outback the world has been a dog-eat-dog world where gangs and individuals have to be hard and have to steal patrol to survive. Max (Mel Gibson) has become a loner after the death of his wife and son who were killed in the first film and has no real reason to life. He just steals petrol and avoids the gangs that rule the roads. However Max meets a gyro captain (Bruce Spence) who tells him of a oil rich community. Both men go to the community and after original thoughts of stealing the petrol Max agrees to help the community who are besieged by Lord Humungus (Kjell Nilsson) and his gang. The community want to escape the waste lands and settle in a decent climate.There is an obvious commentary about the world's over reliance on oil and the oil-shortages of the 70s. There is a modern context to it because oil prices are raising and lets face it oil will run out at some point in the 21th Century. The film also likes Max's lack of humanity and how he gets it back, and how different people handle the post-apocalyptic world, some forming decent minded communities whilst others because more rogue and violence in their approach. It reminds me of elements of the Living Dead series, the graphic novel V for Vendetta and the excellent Stephen King novel the Stand. As well, the world of Mad Max reminded me of the Dark Ages because of the lack of resources, the primitive weapons (there are few guns in this world) and because Lord Humungus was just a like a Dark Age lord because it was the man with the most men behind him that took over an area. Lord Humungus is also an interesting villain because he is violence, but he is an intelligent, charismatic leader, giving him some depth of character.Gibson is good in this like he was in Mad Max. Other actors in the film do a fine job, I personally like Kjell Nilsson in the film. The script was solid and interesting and there was a good story and plot behind it. But the best aspect was the direction of George Miller, who handled the personal, political and social aspects and the action brilliantly. The action scenes were top notch, especially the final chase scene. Miller made you care about what happened, and it was an visual treat, especially because there would have been no CGI. As well, the film did not dub over the voices of characters to make them sound American like in Mad Max; the characters kept their Australian accents. The music was also fitting for this film.If you are an action fan and post-apocalyptic scenarios like the first two Terminator films, then Mad Max 2 is a must have in your DVD collection.
Jaws, the first film to be truly called a blockbuster, with a massive box office return and becoming a cultural phenomenon. It is also one of the first high concept film, when the plot can be summarised in a sentence: a great white shark terrorises a small coastal town.In the town of Amity Island a great white shark starts to end people, including a teenage girl and a young boy, during the run up to busy summer season. The mother of the boy offers a bounty of $3,000 for anyone who captures and kills the shark. The chief of police, Martin Brody (Roy Scheider), wants to prevent people from going into the water, but the major Larry Vaughn (Murray Hamilton) fears that any move would ruin the town's economy and tourism industry. Vaughn ignores the dangers until it was too late. With the help of marine biologist Matt Hooper (Richard Dreyfuss) and shark hunter Quint (Robert Shaw), Brody goes off to hunt for the shark.Jaws is told in two parts. The first is about the investigation, the local reaction and the rivalry between Brody and Vaughn. The second forces on the hunt for the shark. The plot is basic. What Steven Spielberg did was making the characters believable and let them develop. The characters form friendships and rivalry and you even question some of their actions (in a good way). John Williams gives the film a excellent score and they is a fine editing job (for the most part). Steven Spielberg films some fine action sequences and shows he is the master of his craft.Jaws is far from perfect and is not Spielberg's best film. It could have been about 10 to 15 minutes shorter. But it is a pretty entertaining film.There was no need for 3 sequels!
There was a love of perigee behind Ninja Assassin, it was produced by The Wachowskis, directed by James McTeigue (V for Vendetta), J. Michael Stracynski helped write the script and the trailer made it look like a fun martial arts films. But it was it a disappointment for something that should have been a fun experience.Raizo (Rain) is an orphan who was trained to be a ninja and assassin since he was a child. But he is also a man determined to get revenge against his clan chief (Sho Kosugi) who killed his friend as a teenager. In Berlin, an Interpol agent, Mika (Naomie Harris) is investigating a series of historic assassinations where the price was 100 pounds of Gold and begins to believe there are a number of clans operating in the world. Mika ends up becoming a target for the Black Sands Clan and it leads to uniting with Raizo to bring them down.There are a number of problems with Ninja Assassin that make it a failure. The first is the tone, where the film takes its premise very seriously, both with the police element and the flashbacks back to Raizo's upbringing, but then juxtaposed to the juvenile approach to violence. Most people who wanted to see a fun action film but Ninja Assassin was a film that wanted to have its cake and eat it with having the violence and the serious approach.Ninja Assassin felt very much it wanted to be a hybrid of Kill Bill and 300 with its approach to action. Plenty of limbs get cut off, as well as heads and people getting cut in half. Mixed with that is slo-mo with one scene looking like it was influence by the start of the Battle of Thermopylae with ninja getting slide in a similar shot fashion. But there are problems with the action: there is too much CGI (which was bad) making the whole thing look very fake and much of the action was shot in the dark and over edited so it was hard to make out what is happened. The best action sequence was near the end during a fight between Raizo and one of his rivals, simply between the scene was well lite and decently edited. But there are also some good examples of bad editing throughout: one of the best being the chase on the Berlin roads.With its violence, bright red blood, comic book visuals and story hybrid of police procedural and ninja material arts Ninja Assassin seemed like it was a film directed by a 14-year-old think what would be awesome. The camera seems to relish the cartoonary violence that is put on screen. There were also moments like the ninja healing powers and the way the violence was shot made the film look like the comic book film Wanted. That is low benchmark.The acting is weak. Rain was decent enough lead, but it clear that he hadn't quite master English. Harris gave a weak performance, which is a real shame considering she made 28 Days Later and Skyfall. But the worst performance has to go to Yule showing us his wooden skills which he is more then capable of.The film was made for $40 Million and it sadly shows. The CGI that was used was poor, the locations were limited to the temple (which was clearly a set) and Berlin (and we don't even get see many locations within). You would expect a story of assassins would have a bit more of an international scope. Hanna which was made two years later, had a $30 Million and three major stars and it was able to have a number of locations in Europe and North Africa. Ninja Assassin was a that needed more practical effects which would have looked better and more thought in its story.This is going to be a big spoiler: the story at the end falls into a series of plot holes. The first Raizo has a GPS tracker taking out of him, which was easily foreseen, but when it is discovery Japanese police suddenly storm the temple and it will make you think how they got there so quickly. Also when you see the temple's location in the mountains it is not an easy location for a military force to get to quickly and it is easily defendable. The ninjas at the end also develop super speed and the ability to teleport in the shadows for no explained reason.Ninja Assassin was a disappointed. For a film that should have been a fun action film, the action was not well put together and it was just focused on gore because of the over the top violence. I expected better.
Matthew McConaughey used to be the butt of many jokes: but in recent years he has had an acting resurgence in recent years, earning himself an Oscar nomination for Dallas Buyers Club, being considered one of the leading contenders. Dallas Buyers Club is a very compelling film about Ron Woodroof, a homophobic, yet intelligent redneck who is diagnosed with AIDS and has only 30 days to live. But after taking an experimental drug, AZT, actually makes his health worst he ends up taking an alternative course of treatment in Mexico, leading Woodroof to import drugs into America which are not approved by the FDA and selling memberships for a Buyers Club which he would give AIDS sufferers alternative drugs. But as AZT makes sufferers worst, the DEA and FDA targets Woodroof and his Buyers Club.Dallas Buyers Club is a superbly acted film, deserving of the nominations McConaughey and Jared Leto have received. Both were excellent and believable as they display raw emotions and go through a physical and mental change during the film. Woodroof goes through a journey of enlightenment as views and motives have changed. Jennifer Garner too was excellent in the film as a doctor who supports Woodroof and Rayon (Leto) and it is a shame she has not received a nomination for Best Supporting Actress.Director Jean-Marc Vallee and writers Craig Borton and Melisa Wallack do an excellent job at showcasing the period and culture of the time, showing the rampant homophobia and lack of understanding about HIV and AIDS with people thinking only gay people catch the disease and people can catch the disease in the most minor way possible. They show Woodroof's alienation and rejection from his friends and having to start again because of the culture he lived in. Vallee uses TV news reports to get effect at showing the wider picture involving the approval of drugs and how AIDS sufferers were protesting the FDAs feet dragging.Vallee lets performances play out naturally by using a hand-held approach and following actors in long takes, using cuts appropriately. But I do think he was a little lazy at overusing a technique of playing a loud high-pitch noise and smash cutting to black when something really bad or emotional happened.There were some fictional element but the film does felt authentic about the drama and the world it portrayed, getting many details right. But by the third act the film felt a little rushed and if I have to nitpick it felt a bit too convenient that Woodroof's cop friend was around for police raids and for dramatic moments.Dallas Buyers Club is a brilliantly acted, compelling drama that is worth checking out.
Blade Runner is one of those films which most people are willing to call a classic. Blade Runner is a great example of how a sci-fi film and despotic vision of the future should be made. It also shows how good a director Ridley Scott is and is Harrison Ford's best performance as an actor (but I do like him in Indiana Jones and Star Wars).The film is set in Los Andreas in 2019, 37 years into the future when the film was made. Humans had started to colonise space and use clones (called replicants) as slave labour. After a revolution replicants are banned on Earth and are hunted down by Blade Runners if any make to the planet. Harrison Ford plays Rick Deckard, a top blade runner who had gone into retirement. Five special replicants make it to Los Andreas, all breed to be super strong and able to fight. Deckard is asked by the company who made them to hunt them down. This is a tough task for the blade runner which rises questions within him about whether he is doing the right thing and asks ideas about humanity.What Blade Runner does is asked a lot of questions to the audience and makes them thing. It is a complex film in that way. It varies from issues of cloning and slavery to issues of environmentalism and over-population. It also shows ideas like two different classes being formed, an rich-upper class and a poor-lower class, possibly influenced by Marxist ideology and other sci-fi and despotic cultural items like 1984, A Clockwork Orange and Metropolis. The film also looks at the character of Deckard as he starts to doubt the task he is doing. A big debate within the fans of Blade Runner is where Deckard is a human or a replicant. I personally favour he is a human, but that is just my interpretation of it. The film is also influenced by film noir and has been called future-noir. It does have that feel to it and is a little like a detective story, showing Deckard's investigation. The music is also fitting for the film, similar to the music to film noir films. The music also reminds me of the first Championship Manager game, which is downloadable from the SI games website (the makes of the Championship Manager and later Football Manager games).Blade Runner was based on a Philip K. Dick novel, 'Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?'. Philip K. Dick is considered to be a brilliant sci-fi writer, I have only read one of his books, the Man in the High Castle, which was pretty good. His ideas have been converted to films. Some have been very good like Total Recall and Minority Report, but also some bad ones like Next and Paycheck. Blade Runner is easily the best film based on a Philip K. Dick idea. This is because as well as a good story Ridley Scott shows both a very grim version of the future, but at the same time a grand awe-powering version (Speilberg and Verhoeven, took a similar approach).Blade Runner is a must see film, especially for sci-fi fans.
Leon is a great little action film, starring Jean Reno, Natalie Portman and Gary Oldman. It was Luc Besson's first American film and made Jean Reno into a star in America and started off Natalie Portman's career at 12 which lead her to do films such as Heat, Star War Prequel Trilogy and Mars Attack!.Leon is a simple story, an American remake of Nikata, and follows the story of Leon, a mafia assassin. It has an action packed start, showing how good an assassin Leon was. At the same time Mathilda is a rebellious child who smoke, swore, skipped school, but also abused by her parents and sister. However she loves her brother and both Leon and Mathilda had a soft spot for each other. When Mathilda was out of the apartment building a corrupt team of DEA agents led by Gary Oldman killed her family and she goes to Leon for safety and interrupt his very private live. Leon takes the girl under his wing, tries her up to be an assassin and she starts to fall in love with Leon. It is debatable whether it was just love between a father and daughter or something more extreme. Mathilda tries to kill the DEA agents who killed her family and the film leads to a dramatic climax.As I said the film works because it is simple and it focuses on the characters. It tries to be fairly realistic and is small scale, it could have been easy to make the film more epic but it wouldn't have worked. It also a fairly low budget and Luc Besson makes full use of it. Leon has been fairly influential, showing that these sorts of films can be made with an indie spirit and has influential ideas such as the Hit-man games. Luc Besson has directed the Fifth Element after Leon, which was his last good film and become a big producer, from Unleashed to the Transporter.Leon is a good film, especially for students the world over.
The Hannibal has proved to be very successful over the years. Manhunter, the first film became a cult classic, Silence of the Lambs won Oscars and Hannibal was one of the most successful R-rated films. Because of the success of Hannibal, a prequel was commissioned, hoping to capitalize on the success and interest in Thomas Harris series.Red Dragon is a prequel to Silence of the Lambs, it was the first novel written by Thomas Harris and a remake to the Michael Mann version of the book. This tells the story of the FBI's hunt for the serial killer the Tooth Fairy (Ralph Fiennes). He is a man who killed 2 families in Atlanta and Birmingham. The FBI senior officer is stubbed, so convicts expert former officer Will Graham (Ed Norton) out of retirement. He has the uncanny nack to know what a killer thinks and he is the man who cause Hannibal Lector (Anthony Hopkins). After Will Graham hopes the FBI find the evidence, he is asked to go and see Hannibal for help. The hunt is on for the killer who worships William Blake and Hannibal before he kills again on the next full moon.After Hannibal divided fans and critics, some hating the film (I personally liked it), the studio decided to play it safe, making Red Dragon similar to Silence of the Lambs. The original directorial choice by the studio was Michael Bay, but he refused (personally I would have loved to have seen what he would have done just to see how bad it would be). Universal and MGM ended up hiring Brett Ratner, a hack famous for making buddy comedies and being the director you get when no one else is available. He is to studios a safe pair of hands who offers no imagination or challenging the producers. Ratner shoots Red Dragon much like Jonathan Demme did with Silence of the Lambs, but without the tension or flair. Many scenes were just copied from Manhunter and Silence of the Lambs. He is a weak director and average is the best he can achieve. Ratner can not compete with directors like Michael Mann, Demme and Ridley Scott.Red Dragon attached a good cast, Ed Norton, Anthony Hopkins, Ralph Fiennes, Harvey Keitel, Emily Watson, Mary-Louise Parker and Philip Seymore Hoffman. That sounds very good on paper. However, Ed Norton was miscasted, he seemed to young to play a senior FBI agent with a sixth sense about killers. He was not troubled like William Petersen was in Manhunter. Michael Mann exposed the theme that Will Graham nearly lost his sanity, but this was not touched on in this film. Emily Watson is normally a good actress, but here she was a bit wooden. I think she was trying so hard to a play a blind person convincingly that she wasn't able to add an depth to her character. Mary-Louise Parker was totally underused, which is a real shame because she is an excellent actress. Anthony Hopkins' performance was lazy, Ratner was hardly ever going to question him. The best performers were Keitel, who is normally good, Hoffman, again very good but was not hundred percent, and Ralph Fiennes who even plays a clichéd character well. The best scene in the film involved the Tooth Fairy torturing the excellent Philip Seymore Hoffman in a real acting class between the two.They are problems with the film. Some include the pre-title sequence which was over done. The title sequence using newspaper relieved too much. I think the film was also trying to make you emphasis too much with the Tooth Fairy, with the voice-over involving his abusive childhood and trying to make him human. A Hannibal film is not the type of film to make a serial killer human. The Tooth Fairy was more effective and sinister in Manhunter because you don't know anything about him. I also felt he was made into a clichéd psychopath. Ratner was trying too hard to be like Demme with some of his scenes. Some of the scenes like shooting were over done and the same when with a scene involving Hannibal's exercise, not adding to the film, taking away any realism. Ratner is no more then an action director at best. Another little criticism is one involving Emily Watson in the Tooth Fairy's house and give him a blowjob, taking away the idea of romantic love between the two. Also for a film set in the 1980s most of the characters have very modern dress sense.There are some good scenes in the scene, like the torture sequence. As a thriller it decent, but as a horror film it doesn't work.Manhunter, Silence and Hannibal are better then Red Dragon, but it is Brett Ratner's best film. Just imagine what a director like David Yates could have done with this material.
JFK is a film about the assassination of John F. Kennedy and it's aftermath. The film follows Jim Garrison (Kevin Costner), a New Orleans District Attorney, who believed that the assassination was not invested properly and that Lee Harvey Oswald was not working alone. Garrison starts he investigations after the Warren Commission publishes its report and starts to investigate a number of people, questions people from prisoners and witnesses and test the theories behind the assassination. Garrison also meets up and gets information from a mysterious military figure (Donald Sutherland). Garrison ends up getting the police to arrest a local man, Clay Shaw (Tommy Lee Jones), and puts him on trial for conspiracy to murder. He was the only man ever be trialled for the Kennedy assassination.The film was well researched and written. It looks at the theories and try to prove or debunk them. The story was told in flashbacks which was fitting and told Oliver Stone uses a number of film devises such as real news footage, black-and-white films, a washed-out colour look and normal film. The film has some good acting performances, it was Kevin Costner's best and this is his best film. There also a good large cast, from Tommy Lee Jones to Gary Oldman to Joe Pesci. The film also has a narrated beginning showing the history of the events and subtly sets out Stone's theory.This film however is not history, but a mix of historical fact and fiction. The theory in this film was that the American Government and Military, including Lyndon B. Johnson, ordered the assassination of Kennedy because they thought he was weak against Communism and wanted to withdraw troops from Vietnam before the war could escalate. This theory is too far fetched and most historians, including American and Cold War specialists at my university believed that American would have gone into Vietnam no matter who was President, Kennedy or Johnson. The film also makes out that Lee Harvey Oswald was a sleeper agent being trained by the American military and was faking being a Marxist and pro-Castro figure.I believe the lone nut theory, that Lee Harvey Oswald was just working on his own. The wouldn't of been involvement of anyone else, not the US government, the Russians, Cubans, Mafia, etc. A general problem of society is that there are always going to be people who believe conspiracy theories. This has happened time and again. This has happened with Jack the Ripper, Princess Diana and 9/11 and people will swear until they are blue in the face that there was a conspiracy despite the evidence proving against.As long as you look as this film as a work of fiction then it is entertaining. If you look at it as proving a conspiracy then you are an idiot.
Before I start, I personally think that Christopher Nolan and the Dark Knight should win the awards for Best Director and Best Film, but since its are not nominated my vote for Best Director is for Danny Boyle, the brilliant director of Trainspotting, 28 Days Later and Sunshine.Slumdog Millionaire has a bit of everything, it has moments of comedy, gangsters, religious tensions and violence and the themes and hope.The basic plot of the film is Jamel (Dev Patel/Ayush Mahesh Khedekar/Tanay Chheda), an 18-year-old call-centre workers from Mumbai and is one question away from winning 20 Million Rupees on India's version of Who Wants to Be A Millionaire. He is arrested and tortured by the police and the film is told in flash backs about how he knew all the answers. It tells how Jamel grew up in Dharavi, the slums of Mumbai where he lives with bullying older brother Salim (Madhur Mittal/Azharuddin Mohammed Ismail/Ashutosh Lobo Gajiwala). Their mother is killed during a attack by Hindu extremists because she was Muslim. It tells how they went to an orphanage with Lakita (Freida Pinto/Rubiana Ali/Tanvi Ganesh Lonkar), an orphan girl, which was run by a gangster who used the children to make money. It then shows Jamel and Salim ran away to Dephi and worked at the Taj Mahal in an unofficial capacity. After living as street children Jamel and Salim go back to Mumbai to free Lakita who is trapped with the gangsters. Salim himself ends up as a gangster whilst tries to live a normal life working in the Call Centre.It is the direction which is best element of the film. You get to feel the violence, the tension and the streets. They are great moments within this film, such as during the attack in the slums someone throws a rock at the camera and breaks the lens. I also personally enjoyed Jamel's tour of the Taj Mahal. The acting is good and it is a well written film: Simon Beaufoy has a good shot at best Adapted Screenplay. However, the marketing for Slumdog Millionaire as 'the feel good film of the year' is misleading. It is grim, it is bloody, but it makes the film work. I personally never really like Bollywood film; I find them too cheery and I don't like the singing and dancing in the films. What Boyle did was bring in British Social Realism which I think was needed. I hope more films from India take this approach.Good luck to this film in the BAFTAs and Oscars.
Joe Wright has made a reputation for himself as one of the best costume drama directors around, making Pride and Prejudice and Atonement. With his latest film, an adaptation of Anna Karenina, he sets out to give us one of the most ambitious and surreal costume dramas in a long time, breaking the conventions of the genre with its unusual setting and visual approach.Anna Karenina (Keira Knightley) is a Russian aristocrat in the 1870s. She is married to Alexi Karenin (Jude Law), a quietly spoken senior government official seen as a saint in all of Russia. Yet Anna is ready to sacrifice her position, status and her son when she embarks on affair with a young and up-and-coming cavalry officer, Count Vronsky (Aaron Taylor-Johnson), causing a scandal that engulfs the Russian aristocracy.The most obvious comparison that can be made for Anna Karenina is to Laurence Olivier's 1944 version of Henry V. Both movies start in a theatre setting, slowly entering into a more real-world setting and again bookended by the theatre setting. While Henry V was told as if to an audience watching a play, Anna Karenina is literally set in a theatre.Early on in the movie, Wright uses the theatre setting to great effect, allowing for a quick pace at the beginning and cutting time as the film scenery moves around the characters. Wright embraces the theatrical nature of this adaptation, using theatrical devices to emphasise dramatic moments and allowing us to know the thoughts of characters without the need for voiceovers.Visually, one of the most glorious moments in Anna Karenina is a five-minute dance sequence between Anna and Vronsky as the camera tracks them and everyone around them is either still or moving slowly. It highlights the sexual tension between the two and the humiliation Princess Kitty (Alicia Vikander) suffered as a result. This sequence serves as a master class of filmmaking because not a single word of dialogue was used or needed.As the movie turns into a more traditional costume drama, however, it slows and drags. This slower pace, really taking its time to get to the major story elements, makes Anna Karenina feel like it is longer than it really is (never an endearing quality of a motion picture). It needed tighter editing just to trim some of the fat in the middle of the film.Those who enjoy costume drama and historical pieces are in for a treat; there are plenty of themes of love and sacrifice as Anna and Vronsky are prepared to lose their status and opportunities and become pariahs with their social class. The other major theme was an examination of the hypocrisy of this society, that if a man has an affair it is acceptable, but for a woman would be social suicide. A woman would even loose face if they leave their husband who is having an affair. Despite Anna Karenina being based on a famous novel many elements of Anna's relationships played very similarly to another Knightley costume drama, The Duchess.All will find Anna Karenina to be an ambitious experiment and unconventional costume drama, a striking movie with moments that offer great examples of what a filmmaker can achieve visually. It is a fantastic blend of film and theatre and shows how theatrical techniques can be incorporated into film. Wright is a very talented director with a fantastic eye and gets great performances out of his actors. Anna Karenina is tragic, but rewarding movie for its ambition.Please visit www.entertainmentfuse.com
Following the success of Halloween John Carpenter's follow up film was another independent horror film with a more supernatural twist, The Fog.Set over the course of a day the small Californian town Antonio Bay is celebrating its centennial. But it is the day an old curse is set to affect the town with a strange green glowing fog moves towards the town at night, causing strange things such as breaking windows, cutting power and hiding ghosts. As the terror stalks the town a group of townspeople have to find out about a dark secret in the town's past.At around 86 minutes The Fog is short, fast paced little film that does not beat around the bush. The film does not stall in the mystery about why the ghosts are attacking and due to the film taking place over a day allows the events to move very quickly. We get to know the characters and they are portrayed as decent, likable people who you want to survive. Carpenter is an expert at creating an atmosphere, using shadows, dark imaginary and a Halloween style score to great effect. And the film was able to do this without showing much violence and shows that horror does not gallons of fake blood.The story itself and the characters has a Stephen King quality to it, particularly when we find out the reason behind the ghost attacks. The Fog has the small town setting and different types of characters, the single mum running a radio station, the hitchhiker girl who says bad things follow her and a clichéd guilt ridden priest played excellently by Hal Holbrook.But The Fog is a film that does show its age, from the clothes the characters worn to the special effects which have aged poorly. The Fog close up is particularly poor because it was simply a smoke machine and someone flashing a touch. The green lighting effects for the long shots have dated poorly. Fortunately Carpenter was able to redeem himself by having Stan Winston do the special effects on The Thing.The Fog is effective atmosphere Gothic horror film that will easily please fans of John Carpenter. It is not the best film from Carpenter it is still a fine film when he was at the height of his powers. Even if you do not like horror films The Fog still works as a Gothic story.
My friends were really divided about the Godfather Part III: no whether it was good or bad, but if I should see it or not. Some said I may as well complete the trilogy, whilst others said it would ruin the first two masterpieces. In the end I decided to watch it to judge for myself after watching The Godfather Part I and Part II again.Set 20 years after the events of The Godfather Part II, Michael Corleone (Al Pacino) has made moved back to New York and is made a Commander of St. Sebastain by the Catholic Church for his charity work. He has been a legitimate business man, with a few a links to the Mafia. He is suffering guilt from his ruthless raise to power, the murder of brother and the death of his first wife in Silicy. His daughter Mary (Sofia Coppola) is still close to him, running the Vito Corleone Foundation for him, whilst his son Anthony (Franc D'Ambrosio) has turned his back on the family business to focus on a music career. In the middle of a ceremony to celebrate Michael's deels to the church, Sonny's illegitimate son Vincent Mancini (Andy Garica) shows his face. He is a low-level hood who is in the middle of conflict with a Mafia Don, Joey Zasa (Joe Mantegna (Fat Tony from the Simpsons)). Michael offers to show the young hot the ropes of the business. After a devastating hit that wipes out most of the Mafia Dons, a power vacuum happens the world of crime. Michael is forced back into the Mafia because of it. The second plot involves Michael attempting to buy Immobiliare, the real estate sector of the Vactican Bank. The deal is meant to save the Vactican's troubled finances and Michael is encouraged by Archbishop Gilday (Donal Donnelly), the head of the Vactican bank to invest $600 Million in Bonds. But this ends up being a scam by dodgy elements of the Bank and forces Michael into Vactican politics.The Godfather Part III has often been derided by fans for being inferior and insulting to the first two films. But there is a sector who do still like this film. They is a long gap between this film and the preceder, which is never a good sign. It means that a lot of chances are forced appond the film and gaps have to be expanded. It is also normally a sign of cashing in on a popular title. There are problems with characterisation in the film. The first two films are about Michael's moral decline and becoming a ruthless and cunning Mafia boss. But in this film the filmmakers are trying to make him a good guy and forced back into the business. It weakens the message. The rise of Vincent also felt unrealistic and less organic compared to the rise of Vito and Michael. However, I do like that Connie (Talia Shire) as an adviser.The plot itself should have been really interesting, dealings between the Mafia and the Vactican. That in itself could have made a really good thriller/drama, and showing the international nature of both organisations. As well the power vacuum in the Mafia, and forced change could have lead to a good film, particularly more in the context of the first two. But the Godfather Part III seem to be trying to put too much in one film which was shorten, because it also has the added family drama that was key to all three films. As a stand alone film it could have worked, but as a Godfather film, not so much.Acting wise, it was hit and miss. Of course Al Pacino was excellent, Michael Corleone was the role that made him into a star. Andy Garcia is also a good actor, and most of the actors returning were good. The big problem was the casting of Francis Ford Coppola's daughter. Sofia has a good look, and lovely long hair, but she was so wooden and weak that it was a struggle for the other actors. Her expression on her face was so distance that it looked like she wasn't really interested. Luckily she moved into directing where she shows her real talent.Francis Ford Coppola does a fine job directing, having some good set-pieces like the hit on the Mafia (even though it could have been simpler). He keeps the tone the same as with the first two films, have the slow burning atmosphere that made the first two films great. But this film did feels a little too slow and distance compared to the first two. Some of the music also did not fit as well as the first two films. However there are good scenes, like the intercutting between the opera and the outside events.Overall, its no where near as good as the first two films and should have been a stand alone film. But it still has entertaining moments. 3 out of 5.
Heat has such a reputation to it. One of best films of 1995, one of the best films of the 90s, one of the best cop/crime films made, the best film of Michael Mann's career and the first film to have Al Pacino and Robert De Niro starting in it together. It was overlooked in the Oscars 1995 when the God-awful Braveheart won.Al Pacino plays Vincent Hanna, a homicide detective for the LAPD, and Robert De Niro is Neil McCauley, a leader of a crime crew who are successful at robbery. Both are men on the opposite side of the law. They fates become interlinked when Neil's crew rob a security truck and kill everyone inside. Vincent and the LAPD try to investigate the crew who are men who have been arrested for smaller crimes. Vincent sets to get them for a big crime that he know they will commit. He wonder's what they are up to and has to use every resource he can to find out, including his own wits. Neil and his crew had stolen bonds from a business Roger Van Zant (William Fichtner) who had them insured. Neil sets out a scheme to sell the bonds back to Van Zant who would make a profit on them. However Van Zant tries to betray Neil and ends up becoming a part of the criminal world. Neil also has to try and keep his crew together. Neil next big scheme is rob a bank for $12 Million, a big payoff but a big risk considering the heat.What makes Heat stand a part from other crime thrillers is the investment in character. Neil is a man who has a new love interest, Eady (Amy Brenneman) who he wants to settle down with. Vincent is suffering from difficulties in his marriage with Justine (Diane Venora) because of his committed to the job, and his step-daughter Lauren (Natalie Portman) is emotionally depressed. There is Chris (Val Kilmar) who also going through marriage difficulties with his wife because of his gambling addiction, but also Neil's best friend. Trejo (Danny Trejo) is a serial rapist. Even a really minor character like Donald (Dennis Haysbert) has a backstory. Michael Mann know how to write. They is a hell of a cast, and not just Pacino and De Niro. Many of the actors involved are at the top of their game. Even Val Kilmar is good in this film.Michael Mann is a great director and it's easy to see why in this film. He shoots with really style with his quick camera work and excellent editing. Mann keeps the tension going through the film, gets the best out of his actors and knows how to shoot action scenes.Heat is a modern classic and should have been noticed by the Academy.
X-Men is my favourite Comic Book Series and I loved it when it made it to the silver screen. X-Men was a good film in it own right, but it was really an introduction, especially to people who didn't know the comics. I love X-Men because of its themes of alienation and how to use power. I also love the fact that most of characters, heroes and villains have an ideology, compared to most other comics where the villains are either looking to make a lot of money or conquer the world.X-Men 2 continues a few months after the first film. Nightcrawler (Alec Cumming), tries to assassinate the US President which was one amazing scene and starts the film on a high note. An military scientist Stryker, played by Brain Cox, uses the attack as justification for attacking Xavier's school. Events spiral out of control, Xavier is kidnapped by Stryker and Magneto escapes from prison. X-Men and Magneto are forced to ally with each other to save mutant kind. The film introduces new characters, Nightcrawler and Stryker as already mentioned. Colossus had a brief scene in the film, and other additions were Pyro and Lady Deathstrike. Brain Cox and Alec Cumming's performance were particularly good in my opinion, Cox is normally gives a good performance. Pyro was also fun, especially when he takes on the police outside Bobby Drake's/Iceman's house. Iceman also has a bigger part in this film, especially because of his relationship with Rogue. The film does build on the characters and that was why Bryan Singer's version worked because he focuses on them and the film was the X-Men with action, and not action with the X-Men which what happened in the third film. Singer also took on the film as an outsider because he was never a film of the comics. He was able to cut off some of the stuff that wasn't needed, made the series realistic and did his research on the characters and the story. The film also had some brilliant action scenes, and at times was surprising violence. As already mentioned the opening scene and Pyro attack on the police were great, and so was Magneto's escape from prison, the army raid on the school, the Wolverine vs. Nightcrawler fight and when the Blackbird had to escape for the US air force. In my opinion the action in this film is the best in the series.The film ended with setting up a Phoenix/Dark Phoenix storyline, but the filmmakers didn't capitalise on the opportunity. Loosing Bryan Singer and his writing team was really felt in X-Men 3 and made that film it a disappointment. Just focus on the first two films and ignore the third one.
This is the sequel we never wanted, with the director we never wanted. A film that was made hoping to make a lot of money because of the fanbase, but really just annoyed the Terminator fanboys straight away.Terminator Salvation is the first Terminator film that does not have a Terminator going back in time with the mission to kill John Connor in some way or form. This one film looks at the war between the Human Resistance and the Machines after the nuclear war known as Judgement Day. Set in 2018, John Connor (Christian Bale) has been an iconic but rebellious member of the resistance. He leads a team in the fight against the machines. In a raid his team receive information about a signal that could disable the machine and win the war for humanity. They also discovery that the machines have a kill list, with Kyle Reese (Anton Yelchin) on the top of it. During the raid, Marcus Wright (Sam Worthington), a convicted killer is awaken from suspended animation. He is shocked to discover that Los Andreas is a hollow deserted city and ends up meeting Kyle Reese and a mute child (Jadagrace Berry). Along his travels Reese is captured and he ends up joining the resistance. He becomes their best hope at stopping the machines.I wanted to like this, there was some potential and no way it could have been worst then Terminator 3. I think critics were willing to brash this film for two reasons, first misjudging T3 (which was T2 made as a parody), and simply because McG directed this film. There are some positives, there are some good action sequences, especially when the Terminator was on the screen, references to the previous films, and Sam Worthington was very good in this film.But there are a lot of problems with this film that really held it back. I am also critical of McG as a director. He is a music video director who only knows how to direct 3 to 4 minute sequences. He is not good at story or character direction and he over stylises scenes, like when John Connor tried to take off in the helicopter. He over edits, and there are scenes when the camera can't stay still when it really should. He is not good at directing actors. The film lacked the dark and gritty feel it really needed, some moments were be a bit too melodramatic. It wasn't dirty enough, compared to Lord of the Rings where you believed in the medieval style world it was set in. Some of the ideas and scenes were pretty much copied from other films. These include, The Mute Child (Mad Max 2), Steady Cam Battle Scene (Children of Men), The jet plane dog fight (Independence Day), the human harvesting (War of the Worlds (2005)), the radio messages (I Am Legend), some of the robot designs (Iron Man), the CPR scene and the bridge attack (Mission Impossible III). But McG can direct an action scene, and more then a glorfied camera man like Brett Ratner. He can do smaller projects like We Are Marshall and should do more to build up his skill level. And really needs to change his name, because a grown man should not call himself McG!But I think the main problem with the film is the script. It was written by John Brancato and Michael Ferris, who wrote the Terminator 3 and Catwoman (not good signs). It was rewritten a lot by Paul Haggis, Shawn Ryan, Johnathan Nolan and Anthony E. Zuiker, even during the middle of filming. It shows because some of the dialogue was weak, stiff or overdone: in T1 and T2 it was so cool, but not in this. The story too was nothing special, with both the writers and McG not sure whether to focus on Marcus or John Connor. The story reminded me of a Sonic the Hedgehog fanfiction which was a lot better then this script (and I really mean that because it was the fanfiction was well written). This Terminator film also suffers from a lack of a Terminator as either a good or bad guy. He is a compelling forces because of his power. There were ideas that were not used well, like the fine line between man and machine who how would humanity survive a post nuclear world. I also felt the resistance shouldn't have been an organised military force, but more a guerrilla force like the Viet-con or the Iraqi insurgency. This was meant to be the point when humanity was loosing really badly. Kyle Reese in the first film stated that he was born in a machine camp and it was John Connor who saved him. That should have been shown and not him fighting alone in LA. If the story was stronger, it might have worked better as a stand alone film.Whilst Sam Worthington was good in this film, most of the actors didn't do so well. Christian Bale, an actor I like a lot and normally picks his films very carefully, is on auto-pilot in this film. This is particularly specially because he had a famous rant when on set and he was staying in character when it happened. Common as Bale's second in command was really poor and wooden, and it must have been a struggle to carry him in the film. Bryce Dallas Howard was underused, and Helena Bonham Carter, one of my favourite actress didn't give her role her all. Moon Bloodgood and Anton Yelchin were decent, but their character's lacked depth, especially Moon Bloodgood.The trailer pretty much shown the best scenes of the film.For the Terminator film no one wanted I give it a 2 out of 5. I wanted to like it but ended up getting disengaged with it. I think a director like Bryan Singer or Darren Aronofsky could have done so much more with it.
Little Caesar is an archetypal gangster film from the early 1930s, a early example and it offered a breakout performance for Edward G. Robinson whom distinctive voice has been copied for Chief Wiggam in The Simpsons.Rico (Robinson) and his friend Joe Massara (Douglas Fairbanks, Jr.) are two small town hoods who move to the big city to make a name for themselves in the criminal underworld. Rico quickly raises up the ranks, earning the nickname "Little Caesar" and shows a skill for planning heists. Rico overthrows his boss Sam Vettori (Stanley Fields) and becomes one of the leading gangsters in the city. But of course with notoriety he becomes a target of other gangsters and the police, led by Sergeant Flaherty (Thomas E. Jackson), as well as alienated his old friend. g The best aspect of Little Caesar was Robinson, a very talented actor who was able to give his role real menace, someone who is willing to be very ruthless, willing to use violence and has a Machiavellian personality who will do anything to gain power. He is smart but has an ego which is his downfall. Robinson embodied his character, a rags to riches to rags story out a small time thug making it big. It is very much like Scarface in story.Director Mervyn LeRoy was able to some nice camera movements, particularly for the time where the camera was often stasis. He also made a very quick film, it is only 76 minutes and the pacing lightening fast. If anything the film was a little too quick, we do not get to establish how some events happen, like Rico and Joe just going to he big city, easily meet a gangster and then overthrow himself in the first 30 minutes. I would have like to have seen a little more background, a little more detail, like what where these two people like in the small town, what was this small time like, wouldn't they need to prove themselves to a major gangster to show they were worthy and committed to the crew before joining it, what was the internal politics of the crew and that wouldn't there be more of a challenge to Rico becoming the leader seeing he was a nobody a few months ago. LeRoy also uses some text screens to skip over long periods of time instead of showing up. But Little Caesar does everything it wants to put across in its short running time very well and I expect that it was made as a part of a double feature.Whilst Robinson was very good in his role, it was the role that made his career, the rest of the acting is typical of the early 30s, over-the-top with the delivery, very melodramatic and speaking in that 1930s hard boiled way. Still it was the standard of the time and I have seen a lot worst acting in films.Little Caesar is a good film, but it is not a gangster film that we know now. This film is a more a character study and a story how someone could rise to top just so they could fall even further. It is a solid piece of film making for the time.
Carrie was Stephen King's first novel and easily considered one of his best. When it became a hit a film adaptation was practically inevitable. Carrie is considered one of the most important horror films of the 70s.Carrie White (Sissy Spacek) is an isolated high school student with no friends and a fundamentalist Christian mum, Margaret (Piper Laurie). After being humiliated when she gets her first period in the school shower her telekinetic powers start to develop and heighten when under stress. Sue Snell (Amy Irving) feels guilty due to the incident in the shower where she joined in with mob and wants to make it up to Carrie by getting her boyfriend, Tommy (William Katt) to take Carrie to the prom. But the lead bully, Chris Hargensen (Nancy Allen) wants revenge against Carrie, blaming her for not letting her go to the prom and with her delinquent boyfriend, Billy (John Travolta) plan to humiliate Carrie in the most public and sadistic way possible.Carrie is an excellent novel, a short, taut little affair that is a breeze of a read. Some of the elements from the novel would have been hard to translate into because of the structure of the novel: mainly the extracts from the White Commission, The Shadow Exploded and Sue Snell's diary. Other scenes were cut because of expense, i.e. the explosion of the petrol station. But this is an adaptation that does make some big changes and cuts from the novel. Some include not getting to see Chris' father threatening to sue and ends up seeing what his daughter really is, cutting out Sue's pregnancy to small things like Carrie saying her father left her mother instead of dying in an industrial accident. Plus the sociological elements were cut out, looking at the impact of the aftermath of the Carrie incident which I thought was some of the most interesting stuff in the novel.The big positive with the film is the casting of Spacek: she was a terrific as Carrie, having the right look for seemingly being a little weird but have a unique beauty when she is at the prom. She was able to convey the shy, awkwardness of a character who is beaten emotionally at home and at school and shows a psychopathic rage with the look with her eyes when the pigs blood fell on her. The rest of the cast were solid, like Allen playing the bitchy, self-centred bully, Travolta as the abusive boyfriend, Katt and Irving as the high school students who want to do the right thing. Betty Buckley was excellent as the friendly teacher who wants to support and protect Carrie and Laurie did a good job as Carrie's fundamentalist mother. But Sydney Lassick was really hammy and out of place as an English teacher who wasn't even in the book.The big highlight of the film was the prom scene when the pig's blood felt on Carrie goes into a psychopathic rage, locking the doors with her mind and sets out killing everyone. Director Brian De Palma was able highlight the build-up and the tension and then the terror of Carrie's killing. De Palma was able to make the sequence with a unique style using split screens to show different actions happening at the same time and De Palma used silences, making us lip-read what people are saying (though it is very obvious). It is excellent sequence.During the film they are plenty of musical cues when Carrie using her powers, partly due to the limits of special effects, but sometimes the violin streaks from Psycho which was a distraction.Carrie is a very well-acted film that had some stand out sequences and excellent acting, but it is too loose of an adaptation for me.
Scrubs is easy comfort viewing, easy to watch during the middle of the day, similar to Friends in my opinion. It takes a surreal approach and cuts-away into a fantasy scenes, similar to the Young Ones and Family Guy. It is also at times very serious and can have very bitter-sweet moments.The focus of Scrubs is a young doctor J.D. (Zack Braiff). You see the ups and downs of his personal and professional life and you get to hear his inner most thoughts and see his day-dreams. He has friendships with 3 other main characters, Tuck, Elliot and Carla who all live and work together. All of them are competent at their jobs. J.D. also has to do with his mentor Dr. Cox who belittles him at ever given opportunity, Dr. Kenso, the heartless chief-of-medicine and the Janitor who takes great joy out of bullying J.D..What makes Scrubs work is that it uses a number of comedy devices, including witty dialogue, slapstick, sarcasmism and surrealism. It is a well written show with good actors. I personally really like Dr. Cox (John C. McGinley), and his sarcastic rants. He is easily the performer in the show and he does have a good reputation as a comedy actor. The show is also serious at times which is needed, especially seeing the setting is a hospital. I think that the shows puts it off very well. There are also some good guest starts in the show, including Heather Locklear, Heather Graham, Michael J. Fox, Matthew Perry and Tara Reid.Scrubs is basically easy viewing!
Akira is a great film, beautifully animated, complexly plotted and aimed for adults. This was the film that gave that put Japanese Animation on a global stage, and Japan does produce some of the best animation and some of the best films generally. The basic plot of the film is that it is set 30-years after World War 3 and the film starts in 1988 and you see Tokyo getting nuked. In Neo-Tokyo, built on the ruins of old Tokyo, Japan is suffering an economic crisis and the city is infested with teenage gangs, similar to A Clockwork Orange. During a gang battle one gang member clashes his bike into a strange, green skinned child. He is captured and studied by the government and he starts to develop psychic powers.Akira is complex and has made plot strains going on at the same time and I don't want to ruin it for you. It is great if you love sci-fi, animation, anime/manga or just all things Japanese. The animation is also very good from a technical level and all the little details are just great. This is a film aimed for teens and adult, not one for children, but this is just an example that animation is not just for children. Akria is worth watching, and watch it in Japanese with subtitles.
Many of Phillip K. Dick's stories have been adapted into films and a number of them been turned into excellent films. One of them is the 1990 version of Total Recall, a gruesome violent, entertaining sci-fi action flick with plenty of substance.In the future Dennis Quaid (Arnold Schwarzenegger) is construction worker on Earth, longing for more and having recurring dreams of being on Mars with a brunette woman. When he watches an advert for Rekall, a company that can implant memories into people. But the worst happens when during the Rekall process Quaid freaks out and it is discovered his memory has been wiped. Even worst many people are out to kill Quaid, including his wife, Lori (Sharon Stone), his co-worker (Robert Costanzo) and a man called Ritchter (Michael Ironside). Quaid has to go to Mars to discover the truth about his identity as Mars is in the middle of a violence Civil War.Total Recall was directed by Paul Verhoeven and he is a man with a reputation for making action films with substance. That is certainly the cast with Total Recall and it worked on a number of levels: it is a mystery about who Quaid really is and as a futuristic spy flick, a bleak sci-fi film which acts as a criticism of big corporations and exploiting native people or the underclass and the health effects on them to simply being a gore-fest. Verhoeven is great the world building, showing the political situation of Mars.Total Recall is brutally violent and it is a shame that this type of film is no longer made. There are great action sequences that are bloody, with people getting shot to pieces and has excellent gun battles and fight scenes. There is a great use of practical effects during the film whilst also using some early CGI which surprisingly holds up today.Schwarzenegger is not the best actor but he has screen presence and he can deliver a one-line. When the material is there to back Schwarzenegger up there is no stopping him. Schwarzenegger was also supported by a fine cast, including Ronny Cox and Ironside in villainous roles, Stone in one of her best roles and Rachel Ticotin was very good as both the love interest and a woman of action.Jerry Goldsmith supplied an iconic score for the film with a memorial theme.Total Recall is a classic sci-fi that has aged very well. It is successful both on an action level and on a more thematic and intelligent level. It is to me the best Arnie film outside the Terminator series.
From the studio that brought you Mary Poppins, Disney has released a biopic about the author of the original novels, P.L Travers. Saving Mr. Banks is the story of her battles with Walt Disney, who wants the rights to the film adaptation, in a dramatic comedy that is both witty and sentimental.Mrs. Pamela P.L. Travers (Emma Thompson) has been hounded by Walt Disney (Tom Hanks) and the Disney Corporation for 20 years for the film rights to her book and she has refused constantly. But by 1961, she has run out of money and agrees to go to Los Angeles for two weeks to work with the writing team to see if a deal can be struck. Her conditions are that the film cannot be animated, there are no songs and she has final script approval. Travers quickly clashes with creative team and Walt himself, a man who promised his daughters he would adapt the book.As this is going on Travers reflects on her childhood in rural Australia, with her father (Colin Farrell), a loving man who feeds his daughter's imagination, but an alcoholic with probable depression and how these events influenced her writing.Saving Mr. Banks is a film armed with excellent screenplay and a top notch cast. As well as the likes of Thompson, Hanks and Farrell, Saving Mr. Banks also features Bradley Whittaker, Jason Schwartzman, Paul Giamatti, B.J. Novak and Ruth Wilson. They all offer strong performances and have given us very well defined characters. Thompson dominates as Travers, a no nonsense woman with poor social skills and a British Bulldog stubbornness/determination and injects a deadpan humour with the witty lines she was given. Thompson also brings out the emotion, the serious aspects of the character, as the shadows of her past still linger over her.One of the big themes of the film is the writing process, both the individual, personal aspect and the collaborative effect of a film adaptation. Saving Mr. Banks shows that many writers use they personal experience and life and become a part of the author. It is hard for writers to let go and particularly for Travers, as she has so much invested in Mary Poppins, so much of herself in it. Her books allowed her to have some wish fulfilment.The screenwriters Kelly Marcel and Sue Smith, director John Lee Hancock and editor Mark Livoisi worked brilliant to blending the story of Travers butting heads with Disney's creative team and her backstory about her childhood influencing her writing. There are plenty of transitions, allowing Hancock to have some fancy pans. One particular noticeable sequence is when the creative team performs one of the songs and Travers has a flashback. The film slowly reveals how Travers childhood and her father became a part of her writing, used in the books and become a part of the themes of her books and philosophies. This is particularly the case with her parents and their inabilities to cope, both Travers' father's alcoholism and mother's inability to cope with the stress, leading to her theme of responsibility. For a film that is about the writing process, Saving Mr. Banks never really shows about the writing process that Travers goes through, but explores the writing process of adapting a work, from one medium to another.The final theme and a big part of the comedy comes from the clashes of cultures and personalities. Travers is a brash personality with formal, conservative approach and lives a modest lifestyle in London and a rustic life in Australia. This in comparison to the overtly friendly American and their glamour and excess, from the fashion to the food, particularly sweet treats and the hard sell from Disney in Travers' hotel room.Saving Mr. Banks has a excellent screenplay, solid direction and balances the comedy dramatic portions extremely well. The film makes sure there is plenty of sentiment, particularly with the score by Thomas Newman. It is a safe film, but still a pleasing experience. It is perfect if you are a fan of Mary Poppins and you will have the songs stuck in your head.Please visit www.entertainmentfuse.com
n the 1970s and 80s, Sylvester Stallone and director Walter Hill dominated the cinematic scene with various action films and buddy comedies. Their latest film, Bullet to the Head, attempts to recapture the spirit of the 80s but ends up feeling outdated, never attempting to reinvent or modernise this type of film.In the New Orleans underworld, James Bonomo (Stallone), a.k.a. Jimmy Bobo, is a hit-man who lives by a certain code of ethics: he does not kill women or children. After Jimmy's partner, Louis (Jon Seda), is killed by a ruthless mercenary (Jason Momoa), Jimmy wants revenge. He finds an unusual ally in the form of Detective Taylor Kwon (Sung Kang), and their investigation leads to a wider conspiracy involving an African gangster (Adewale Akinnouye-Agbaje) and network of corrupt politicians and police officers.Hill is best known for director 48 Hours and the cult classic The Warriors and producing the "Alien" films. With Bullet to the Head, he brings in a neo-noir style filled with dark, neon visuals and uses a brooding Stallone voice-over. But on the whole Bullet to the Head is a dull, predictable experience. For a film that is led by one of the biggest action stars in the world, the action is infrequent, and when it is on screen, its quick cuts and close-up shots make it hard to tell what's going on.The screenplay is ordinary  featuring plot points that you will see coming from a mile away. Bullet to the Head is such a predictable film that, despite the graphic violence you'll see, it'll likely leave your audience bored.It was clear that Hill and Stallone wanted to make a film similar to Cobra, but what we get is a film that treats itself too seriously. It's a film that needed to be let loose, but it played more as an investigation film with some buddy comedy elements as Bobo and Taylor quest around the city. The film is the most fun when Momoa is in full killer mode.The buddy relationship between Bobo and Taylor plays on three levels  profession, age and race. Both men argue about their methods  Bobo's willingness to kill and use violence differs greatly from Taylor's law-abiding view on the justice. The other element is Bobo's use of old-fashioned methods (relying on his knife) compared to Taylor's reliance on his cell phone. The writing attempts to give the pair a witty rapport, and it does provide the laughs as the film constantly sides with Bobo.Despite Stallone's resurgence as an actor, Bullet to the Head is a step back for him. He offers a lazy performance that's meant as a throwback to his films of the 80s, films that took themselves too seriously. The acting across the board, actually, is subpar, but Akinnouye-Agbaje's performance was particularly embarrassing as a gangster limping around on crutches. It was really a role meant for an older actor.On the whole, Bullet of the Head attempts to be a stylish throwback, a film that wanted to bring the grimy thrillers of the 1980s to the internet age. But what we have is a sloppy film that will disappoint people who want a fun B-movie. Stallone and Hill have made better films in the past, and if you think you're interested in Bullet to the Head, you might want to check one of those older films instead. Stallone certainly needs to step away from this type of movie if he wants to expand his career from his existing franchises.Please visit www.entertainmentfuse.com
They is no denying that Robert Pattinson is popular with teenage girls and the Twilight series is evidence of that. But R-Patz as he is also known wants to prove himself as a serious actor, staring the Salvador Dalí bio-pic Little Ashes and has been torted to play Kurt Cobian in a bio-pic of the great musician's life. But Pattinson has picked to star in this extremely pedestrian romantic drama.Remember Me tells the story of Tyler Hawkins (Robert Pattinson) and Ally (Emilie de Ravin), two star-crossed, similar to famous stories from Romeo and Juliet to Love Story. Tyler is a highly confused man in his early 20s. He is a from a wealthy background, but has a strain relationship with his father Charles (Pierce Brosnan), his older brother has died, and he is only close to his 11-year-old sister Caroline (Ruby Jerins): almost like the character Holden Caulfield in Catcher in the Rye. He is intelligent, but he has no course in live, living in a rubbish apartment in Manhattan in 2001 with his friend Aidan (Tate Ellington). Ally saw her mum shot dead in front of her at a subway station when she was 11. In 2001 she is a student at New York University, with the ambition to become a social worker. She lives with her dad, Neil Craig (Chris Cooper), a harden New York cop and a poor-man's Christopher Walken. He is overprotective of his daughter after what happened. Their two worlds collide after Tyler and Aidan are arrested by Neil, and the two plot their revenge when their find out who his daughter is. They plan to get her to fall in love with Tyler so he could break her heart. But Tyler is not that mean spirited, and the two start to fall for each other. This becomes forced when Ally is hit by her father and the two live together. But there is only a matter of time that the secret is out and all their family lives affect the couple.There is a lack of originality in this film, with plot elements taken from other works, like Love Story, with the couple having witty banter and the woman at first doesn't not like the man. There is the other element that the man is from a wealthy upper-class background, whilst the woman is from a working-class community. The audience has seen this before and Remember Me does not offer anything new. This film is filled with sub-plots that do not lead anywhere. The pace of the film is plodding and it just follows a routine that everyone has seen before. The film that could and should have been made was the element focusing on Tyler's relationship with his sister and trying to protect her from the girls who bully her. The other element that could have been an interesting story was Tyler's grief and post-traumatic stress disorder and could have allowed Pattinson to flex his acting muscles.The direction by Allen Coulter is unremarkable, with no real flair. But he did have weak material to work with. It was shot like a TV movie or like a higher end soap when shot on location.The acting too is nothing special. Pattinson is decent, and does try his best, but there are moments when his ability does slip. However Pattinson's is a pretentious man and not that interesting. Emilie de Ravin is the best performer in the film, but her character too is pretentious and at times does not seem like a real person. Who ever thought Pierce Brosnan could play a Brooklyn-born businessman must have been smoking some very strong weed. He could barely do an American accent and that was poor casting on the filmmakers part. Ruby Jerins performance was much like Abigail Breslin, a girl who is smart, quirky and a little weird, but Jerins was not as talented. It's a shame because there were a few good moments from her. Her character also has moments where you had to really stretch suspension of belief with some of the things she says.Finally, they was no reason for this film to be set in 2001, it could have been easily set in 2010.Overall an unremarkable film, but the audience was divided on gender lines: women liked it, men hated it.
In the late 60s and early 70s there was a rise in dark and gritty cinema tackling the grim subject matter and themes and did not pull their punches. The 1972 John Boorman film Deliverance was one of them, a horrifically interesting film.Four friends, Lewis (Burt Reynolds), Ed (Jon Voight), Bobby (Ned Beatty) and Drew (Ronny Cox) go to the remote wilderness of the Deep South to canoe down the Cahulawassee River before it flooded by the construction of a dam. But in the sticks the men meet very hostile hillbillies, leading to a horrific sexual assault and all four men to explore their dark sides.Deliverance is a very atmospheric film and it is done by the simplicity of Boorman's direction. He uses plenty of long shots and single takes, letting the power of the acting do the talking. Music is kept to a minimum and it adds to the atmosphere as most of the sounds we hear are nature, making you feel like you are in wild forest and it added to the horror when we see the infamous rape scene. It gave the moment even more power.Deliverance has an great cast and all four lead actors give excellent performances as they play some difficult roles and situations. Lewis is a macho man, a survivalist who is the most independently minded and the man who shares the hillbilly view of independent and love of wildness of the area. Ed is someone who ends up having to explore his dark side during their journey and Drew tries to be the conscience and rational of the group. All four end up having a dark bound, knowing what happened in the woods and their relationship had a very Stephen King esque feel to it.Deliverance was made in the early 70s, a time where hostility to the Vietnam War was high but it was unpopular in American culture to criticise it in film or books. Like a lot of good storytelling a story can be used as a way to subvertly talk about a subject through a different and you can see the Vietnam parallels in this film. The group of men are city men who suffer a culture crash and hostility from the locals, going into a hot forest area with an enemy around them as they try to survive in an onslaught and the war atrocities before the suffering the aftermath on the home front.Added to the Vietnam theme there are themes of manhood, the dark side of human nature that inhabits men, especially when they are alone in the woods and far away from civilisation and even a look at the nature of these communities who isolated and hostile to authority. But the film does have a surreal look to the hill folk with all their deformities and go through the old clichés that everyone in the rural Deep South is inbred. Finally there is even a slight environmental message about the destruction of the dam would course to the valley.Deliverance is an interesting film that was well paced and the dark nature was clearly following the hallmarks of cinema for the period. It is certainly worthy viewing.
From the director, writers and producer of the Pirates of the Caribbean films they attempt to repeat their success with a reboot of The Lone Ranger. But the film was plagued with production problems, a bloated budget and poor critical response and it ended up being one of the biggest flops of 2013.In 1869 in Texas the idealistic young lawyer John Reid (Arnie Hammer) returns to his home town of Colby to bring in the rule of law. But when a notorious criminal, Butch Cavendish (William Fichtner) escapes whilst journeying to Colby John has to team up with his Texas Ranger brother Dan (James Badge Dale) and seek to find Butch and his gang. The rangers are betrayed and John has to team up with a strange, unhinged Native American, Tonto (Johnny Depp) who also wants revenge. Soon the pair discover a bigger conspiracy that could lead to war between the United States and the Comanche tribe.The final 30 minutes was real fun romp, offering an excellent action sequence that was light-hearted and adventurous whilst the William Tell Overture was playing in the background. It was a romp and this was what the whole of the film should have been. But The Lone Ranger suffers from a number of problems: these range from the strange decision to frame the story as an elderly Tonto narrators it to a young boy in 1933, when the telling the story would have been stronger if it was told straight and the tonal shift being very comic with John and Tonto arguing and falling into slapstick whilst Fichtner is coming from another film where he is dark, menacing and literally a cannibal.There was potential for a good romp but director Gore Verbinski does fall into the same traps of the Pirates films, as Tonto and John Reid are basically Jack Sparrow and Will Turner with their buddy routine, the long running time and the shifting tone. The idea of John Reid being a idealistic, intelligential man who wants to bring law and order and only uses a gun as a last resort, but Hammer plays the character too nerdy, suffering both from the slapstick comedy and he is stronger when the character was played more straight. Whilst there has been a lot of criticism of Depp playing a Native America, but the big issues are Depp is really playing another Jack Sparrow type character that has been his career lately, being comically wacky. It would have served the film better if Tonto was played more straight-laced and he definitely should have been played by a younger actor, someone in their early thirties. The shtick between John and Tonto just reminded me how much better it was done in the Guy Ritchie Sherlock Holmes films, not helped with Hans Zimmer providing a similar score for both franchises.The Lone Ranger does have a excellent supporting cast, Fichtner, Tom Wilkinson, Ruth Wilson, Helena Bonham Carter and Barry Pepper. They are all at least solid and Fichtner does make an excellent villain but his gruesome actions should have been cut from the script: he still could have been interesting, cold-blooded villain who killed on a whim without needing to be made into the complete psychopath. Wilson is a good actress but she was given the thankless damsel in distress role and Bonham Carter was underused in her role as a brothel owner.The screenplay itself is a mishmash of ideas, having surreal supernatural ideas whilst also wanting to be a more grounded swashbucking affair with political and business conspiracies. It should have gone one way or the other but the film tries to play it both ways and it ends up leading to some big plot holes/questions. Questions that they properly wanted to answer in the sequel that is not going to happen. As you would expect from a Gore Verbinski/Jerry Brockheimer production the action and special effects is of a high standard and the third act is what you would want from a Lone Ranger film. But this film should have been a light-hearted swashbucking film and not this product that wanted to be a comedy and a dark grim film.
Miller's Crossing is a prohibition era gangster film set in an unnamed North-Eastern American city (properly New York or Boston). The plot of the film was a two leading gangsters are clashing over control of the crime empire in the city and slowly more towards a gang war. In the middle of this was Tom Reagan (Gabriel Byrne), one of the loyal lieutenants of Leo O'Bannon (Albert Finney) was throw in the middle. At the same time Tom and Leo's relationship was becoming strain because Tom doesn't like Leo's girlfriend, Verna (Marcia Gay Harden). The film was well written and well plotted. The film is a hybrid of films like the Godfather, Goodfellas and Road to Perdition. The film has traits of Coen's brothers writing and direction, such as witty dialogue, humour and dark humour and violence. The film shown how gangsters would have operated during the prohibition, using violence, owning clubs and bribing cops. It also had complex relationships in the film and none of the characters is portrayed as good guys. If you are a fan of the Coen brothers or the gangster genre then this film is worthy to be a part of your DVD collection and even if you're not Miller's Crossing is worth seeing.
The Bourne Identity, the reason why the Bond series had to change, and for that Bourne needs to be respected. I was hostile to this film when it first came out, thinking it was going to be no more then the American trying to make their own version of Bond, much like xXx released in the same year: but I so wrong.The Bourne Identity has a simple premise, an American assassin, Jason Bourne (Matt Damon), has been shot and has amnesia. He is found by French fishermen and he goes on a quest to discover his identity. His bosses at the CIA believed he had died and thought his mission was a failure. They were are shocked to see he shows up in Zurich and they try to hunt Bourne down. Bourne is shocked to see he has a number of passports, thousands of dollars in cash, and a gun in a Swiss bank security box. He discovery he has a nack for language, fluent in German and French, physically fit and can fight without even thinking. He acts like a spy without him knowing it, also checking for exits and threats. In Switzerland he befriends a gypsy, Marie (Franka Potente), he takes him to Paris where he lived. There the hunt hots up, with local police and CIA top agents after them. They have to hide and work together to solve the mystery.They are a lot of positives in this film. It has an excellent cast, it's Matt Damon's first blockbuster and he is good as the spy who is both cold and emotion and also one high alert. Their is Franka Potente, a very good actress and is a woman caught in the middle of this chase. Chris Cooper is good as the villain, and there are other excellent supporting actors, Brain Cox, Clive Owen, Adewale Akinnuoye-Agbaje and Julia Stiles. The Bourne Identity is the director's (Doug Liman) first blockbuster and he shows he is a excellent action director. There also some excellent action scene, such as the car chase in the mini with Ready, Steady, Go as the backing song, to the fight scenes to the final fight. Also, he doesn't use shaky cam like Paul Greengrass did in the sequels. It also a part of the trend that X-Men started out, getting an indie director to direct action film and bring strong story to a film. There is a fantastic script by Tony Gilroy and William Blake Herron. They wrote a very intelligence, thoughtful script that makes you thing. There are themes of memory, nature vs. nurture, the all seeing eye of the CIA and their willingness to be ruthless. It is also unusual for a blockbuster because it makes out that the Americans (or at least the CIA) as the bad guys. It has a left-wing political stance which Greengrass continues.It's an excellent film and needs multipal viewings to truly understand it.
Apollo 13 is possibly one of the most famous space missions in history, almost as famous as the Apollo 11 mission. But Apollo 13 was famous for nearly ending in disasters, but NASA was able to prevent it.After the success of the Apollo 11 mission veteran astronaut Jim Lovell (Tom Hanks) and his crew Fred Haise (Bill Paxton) and Ken Mattingly (Gary Sinise) are assigned to the Apollo 13 mission to the moon. They train and become an effective team, but Ken is removed when his blood test shows he is inflected with measles. Jack Swigert (Kevin Bacon) has to replace the man 2 days before the flight. When the flight takes off everything seems find for the first three days. But then one of the oxygen tanks blow up, and their capsule starts to run out of oxygen and the moon mission is abandoned. The NASA ground control team lead by Eugene F. Kranz (Ed Harris) and the astronauts enter in a race against time to get back to end. On the way they have to uses as little electricity as possible and make sure that the carbon dioxide levels from getting too high. On Earth there is also a personal drama involving the families of the astronauts, led by Marilyn Lovell (Kathleen Quinlan), who can only watch on TV and pray that their husbands can come back to Earth safely.Ron Howard is easily on of the biggest hit and miss director's in Hollywood. For every quality film like Frost/Nixon there is a poor film to counter act it like the Da Vinci Code. Luckily Apollo 13 is on the good side on the Ron Howard scale. I have been very critical of the films that were nominated for Oscars in 1995, the awful Braveheart winning undeserved awards, whilst The Usual Suspects, Heat, Casino, Se7en, Nixon and Twelve Monkeys were all over looked for a nomination. Apollo 13 was at least the most deserving for a nod in that year. Ron Howard direct's a fine film, having some wise directional choices. He uses some excellent special effects, has some wonderful camera, shots in real locations and uses low gravity, a good use of real news footage and after a slow build up makes a interesting and exciting film about how NASA got the astronauts back against the odds. Ron Howard also shot the film as PG, which in modern cinema normally seen as weaken a film because it doesn't make it seem adult: but this was a wise move by Howard. This story didn't require swearing or violence, giving the film a wider audience and a older-fashion feel like Casablanca or Spartacus. But despite these good aspects, the film does have a very overwhelming score which wasn't needed.There is also a good cast to the film, Tom Hanks, who is very good in the film, Kathleen Quinlan was also very good, Ed Harris, an actor I like, Gary Sinise in one of his better performances, Bill Paxton and Kevin Bacon. This was a film that was acting for awards. In another year it would have got them.A good film if you are interested in NASA and the space programme.
The prison sub-genre has produced many great films over the years, giving us the likes of The Shawshank Redemption, Hunger and Escape from Alcatraz. The critically acclaimed British movie Starred Up from Perfect Sense director David Mackenzie hopes to join their ranks.Eric Love (Jack O'Connell) is a 19-year-old sent to adult prison two years early because he is known as 'starred up', a very violent offender. On his first day in prison, Eric manages to make a weapon, knocks out a fellow prisoner which causes a lock-down and fights the prison guards leading to him biting one of them in the testicles. Despite his violent behaviour, a prison volunteer, Oliver (Rupert Friend) offers to have Eric in his anger management group and help him change his behaviour. Nev (Ben Mendelsohn), Eric's father and fellow prisoner is forced to try and take his son under his wing, partly to protect him being killed by the crime boss of the prison, Spencer (Peter Ferdinando), because lock-downs disrupt business. But as Eric starts to manage his anger, he finds mentors from other prisoners, putting his father out of place as he tries to be the man he is meant to be.Starred Up is a harsh look at the British prison system and tells an unconventional father and son relationship. Mackenzie uses hand-held cinematography, using sequences that are long takes and gives Starred Up a fly-on-the-wall feel, whether it was following Eric in the prison or simply watching Eric grow in the group sessions and control his anger. Mackenzie shows the violence as prisoners fight, stab and make weapons. He gives us some strong fighting sequences, such as Eric's first fight and a fight in a shower. There are plenty of elements that would remind people of other prison movies like Scum, A Prophet and Bronson, sharing visual cues when the camera follows Eric, makes his weapon and how he prepares for fights.At times, Starred Up plays a little like a British version of the excellent HBO show Oz, taking a look at various factions in the prison. There are various criminal forces with their own angles, the personal vendettas between the prisoners and internal politics between prisoners and within the prison staff. There are debates within the prison staff, as they decide what is the best course with dealing with Eric. Oliver is made out to be a hopeful man who actually wants to reform prisoners, give them hope and elaborates on what is the point of prison, rehabilitation or punishment? This is an issue that has been debated in Britain since the end of the 18th century.A key part of Starred Up is the relationship between Eric and Nev, both excellently played by O'Connell and Mendelsohn as they learn to actually become father and son. Nev has only one setting when dealing with Eric, aggression and shouting, believing he needs to be tough with Eric to get the message across. Yet, Nev states that Eric has a chance of getting released from prison and should play the system, just so he can get out. In prison, Eric finds other mentors in the form of Oliver and two other prisoners, Tyrone (David Ajala) and Hassan (Anthony Welsh) who wishes to usurp Nev's role.Eric gets glimpses at what could be his future could be because of the different prisoners he is with. He could end up like his father, a violent lifer, a leading crime lord in prison or be like Tyrone (David Ajala) and Hassan (Anthony Welsh) and actually turn his life around.Starred Up is a very macho film, filled with fighting, violence, male posturing and liberal uses of the f and c words as Mackenzie shows this very brutal, violent world. The only prominent female character is one of the Governors played by Sian Breckin and she is only a small role who appears in a few scenes. The female prison guards that appear in the movie are really speaking extras.Mackenzie has shown himself to be a director who can get strong performances from his actors, such in his previous movie Perfect Sense. He again provides a strong work, through his hiring of a strong cast of respected actors. O'Connell gives a deliberately ambiguous performance as he is hard to read: he is a character that is anti-authority and willing to use his fists: but has some morals and ethics even in prison. Friend is very good in his role as Oliver, but he is made out to be a very nervous and timid character and even though he is a good natured character those traits for someone working with violent offenders.Starred Up keeps to a British tradition of violent, kitchen sink realism, while the writer Jonathan Asser wants to tell a personal story. It is a brutal movie that makes sure that prison is a terrifying environment and fans of Scum and Oz should enjoy Starred Up.Please visit www.entertainmentfuse.com
Gravity was one of the anticipated films of 2013 and for good reason, it was the return of Alfonso Cuaron in the director's chair after a seven year break.Orbiting the Earth is the Explorer Space Shuttle is orbiting the world when space debris, destroying the shuttle and leaving only two survivors, Lt. Matt Kowalski, a veteran on his last mission and Dr. Ryan Stone, a mission specialist on her first mission. Stranded in the middle of space the pair try to make it to the International Space Station as their oxygen and fuel is running low as the debris speeds around the world every 90 minutes.Gravity is a film that gets everything right, a tort script, fantastic visuals and great performances from Bullock and Clooney. Cuaron really does give us a visual extravaganza, showing the beauty of space and the world with the depths of space and the zero gravity enhanced by 3D effects, some of the best put to film. Curaron continues his use of long takes and tracking shoots which I am a sucker for, and due to the space setting there was no limitation and helped keep the flow of the acting.Gravity tells a simple story, but it is beautifully told. Cuaron is able to make the film compelling, thrilling film as we follow the astronauts in their struggle and we get to find out about them during the film. Dr Stone grows from a woman who was already nervous about her mission to someone who has to grow as she fights for survival. Despite the simple story Cuaron was able to add style toughs with looks of religious icons, adding subtext to the film.Cuaron gets the tone right throughout film, from when to be exciting with the full force of the special effects and when to be more tender or tragic and the very occasional moments of humour, all increased by Bullock's performance. It was very reminiscence to Duncan Jones' Moon. Steve Price also supplies a fantastic score for the film and it is one of the best of the year.Gravity is an excellent film, working on the story and characters, to visual spender and gripping action spectacle as it shares themes of the perils of space travel to Moon, Sunshine and Apollo 13.
Films about the War of Terrorism and the Iraq War have often been critical and commercial poison for many filmmakers. There is a list of films such as Lions for Lambs and In the Valley of Elah. The Hurt Locker is the first film to break this trend.The Hurt Locker tells the story about Bravo Company, 3 soldiers who specialise in disarming improvised explosive device (IED). They are about to enter into their last month of duty when their team leader is killed and a new one takes his place. SSgt. William James (Jeremy Renner) proves himself to be a highly reckless soldier, but gets praised by his commanders. He ends up in conflict with Sgt. Sanborn (Anthony Mackie), a more conservative soldier who wants to do his duty and get out of the war alive. The company do grow together, working as a team, and have do to a number of missions together. But both sergeants still differ about their methods and the war has affect everyone involved.There is no grant plot about stopping evil terrorists or a grant battle; the focus of the film is on the small company, how they interact and how the work affects them. The three main character are very different views on the war, one is a danger junkie, the other a conservative, more natural leader who wants to do his duty and protect the lives of his men and a nervous young kid. The film shows that the Iraq war was a tough urban war where American soldiers do not know who the enemy is. The enemy uses IEDs. The Americans are fighting an invisible enemy and don't know who to truth. The Iraqs/Arabs/Muslims are not portrayed as villains, most are just trying to lead a normal life. The views of the insurgency and the politics of the war are not looked at. The focus of the film is on normal soldiers trying to do their duty. The Americans are neither heroes or villains, and the films looks at many issues within the US army and the psyche of soldiers.They is a decent script and shot acting from the three leads. They are excellent supporting characters such as Ralph Fiennes and Guy Pearce. The writer, actors and director make you care about what happens about what happens to them. Kathryn Bigelow shows good and bad elements of her direction. She is about to make a tense film which adds to the atmosphere and the character development. They are shot war scenes and she is a skilled action director. You feel what the war could have been like. But her director also reminded me of the direction of Michael Mann and Paul Greengrass with shaky cam and quick camera panning. She uses a hand-held camera and I'm more of a traditionalist on that front. The film was also like the Bourne Supremacy of war films.The Hurt Locker is a good film, but it is not 5 out 5 like some reviewers would have you believe.
From the mind of one of Spain premier film director, Pedro Almodovar, is The Skin I Live In, a very compelling and interesting psychological thriller that oozes style and themes that will keep you engrossed throughout.Robert Ledgard (Antonio Banderas) is a skilled plastic surgeon who is attempting to make a synthetic skin that is tougher then nature human skin, with the hope that it would cure burn injuries and stop malaria. At his remote home/clinic he has only one patient, Vera (Elena Anaya) who uses as a guinea pig and keeps her under lock and key. Robert is also a man who has had pain in his life, his wife had server burns and commits suicide and so does his daughter Norma (Blanca Suarez). Soon the film explores how the strange relationship between Robert and Vera began.The Skin I Live In is film filled with twists and turns and goes in many different directions, from being a medical/psychological mystery to turning into a twisted revenge film. Almodovar uses a non-linear narrative, with the first and final thirds are set in the present and the middle made as a flashback and the director is able to bring all these elements together by the end. The Skin I Live In starts as a film that seems to be asking medical ethics questions about what is it right to do morally dubious acts, to an examination of sexual obsession and violence and to the forming an elaborate revenge scheme which results in a body shock, Stockholm syndrome and sexual and personal identity. The only other Almodovar film I have seen was Bad Education and there are similar ideas of sexual identity and sexual violence and also uses a non-linear style, but I preferred The Skin I Live In.The characters are all morally dubious, with complex issues and background. There is a lot of ambiguity with all of them. The Skin I Live In has a fantastic screenplay behind it as it brings out all these moral ambiguities and themes to great effect and Almodovar was able to direct it with the right amount of pacing and there was tension throughout. There are some great camera and visual tricks and there Almodvar has no holds bars to sex and violence and it actually surprising it got a 15 rating when it could have easily gotten an 18.They is a strong cast with actors and Banderas has to show his range with his very complex role. Anaya is strong actress and a very attractive woman and there was no weak links. I like Suarez's performance as shy and sheltered girl who shows an interest in a young man and I loved her naivety, but I thought it was too comical when she is psychologically traumatised and hides in cupboard: it just felt over the top and silly and is one of the few weak links in the writing.There are plenty of twisted ideas throughout the film that will stick in your head, one of the main ones being Robert has been making Vera to look like his decreased wife and his unhealthy obsession as he watches her and slowing gives into his passions. But going any further would lead into spoilers.The Skin I Live In is a really engrossing film, a great blend of psychological drama and thriller with a real art-house approach to it. It is an inventive and original film that will hold your attention and keep you interested.
Since making the ultra entertaining 300 Gerald Butler has become a star and an in demand actor. But for every film like 300 and Rocknrolla he has to counter balance it with a film like the Ugly Truth and P.S. I Love You. He has now turned to pure exploitation cinema, with 2009 seeing the release of Law Abiding Citizen and Gamer.Clyde Shelton (Gerald Butler) was a successful inventor living in Philadelphia with his wife (Brooke Stacy Mills) and daughter (Ksenia Hulayev). But one night, two criminals (Christian Stolte and Josh Stewart) invade his home, tie Shelton and his family up and murder his family in front of him in an almost A Clockwork Orange style. When the case goes to trial the ambitious prosecutor Nick Rice (Jamie Foxx) settles for making a weak deal just to keep his conviction stats up. 10-years later a betrayed Shelton goes out on a mission of revenge, torturing the two criminals who took his family and from behind bars wages war against the whole of the legal system.One thing has to be said straight away, Gerald Butler can not do an American accent! I don't understand why casting directors keep insisting that he plays non-Scottish characters, he hasn't got the vocal range. That said he does play the most interesting character in the film, a man who has lost everything using his skills and intelligence to get revenge and showing faults in the American legal system. But the filmmakers ruined that idea by turning him from being ordinary man pushed the extreme to a black ops assassin who makes Bond film type gadgets.Law Abiding Citizen starts out interesting enough, starting with a violence crime against a man's family, how the legal system in America is based on whether you can get an easy conviction even when they have a decent case against a criminal and the torture scenes where pretty much something out of a Saw film. The way Shelton picks people off, from criminals to lawyers is similar to a horror film but done in a thriller/action film. Shelton is a man who is pushed the extreme it is hardly surprising he acts the way he does. Action fans will be satisfied with the violence action scenes but there isn't enough of it.Jamie Foxx is an obviously capable actor, winning an Oscar for Ray and won the respect of directors like Michael Mann and Joe Wright. He does a decent job and he is the best actor in Law Abiding Citizen. But it was hard to sympathise with a man who put his work first, is blindly ambitious and does not use the justice system to its full extend. He looks for the easy deal and not the best deal and if this film was set in the real world wouldn't the media question some of his prosecutions? Like why do rapist get tried for lesser offences. The film was at first sympathetic to the Butler character but the way the character changed from being a broken man who loved his family and plans his revenge to a man who turns out to be a cold and calculating assassin for the CIA felt so fake. His methods even change from someone who does real physical torture to attacking from a distance: he was a little like a poor man's Joker.The message of the film can be seen as a right-winger's wet dream. It is a film that says if the justice system fails then you should be allow to take justice in your own hands and be allowed to use violence against criminals. The other argument it makes is that the American legal system is filled with holes that allow criminals to escape justice and that there is a real distrust of the system. That rights are designed for the benefit of the accused and American legal officials should be allow to ignore civil liberties for the 'greater good'. Isn't Common Law based on the idea that you are innocent until proved guilty? Writing wise Law Abiding Citizen is filled with holes, like how Nick changes, his hypocrisy and how he changes his mind on issues in the manner of hours. There is also the idea that Nick is meant to be a really smart lawyer who should have potential for elected office, but he does make some pretty stupid decisions through out the film. The film also does not explain why some events happen like why was Shelton attacked (if he was such a good spy wouldn't he have a lot of security) or how some people do not notice certain things.Basically the first 30 minutes are good but after that the film does not know which way to go and does have a dodgy sense of morality.
Steven Spielberg is one of the most famous directors in the world and E.T. The Extra Terrestrial is one of his most beloved films, which is remarkable considering he has made films like Jaws, Schindler's List, Saving Private Ryan and the Indiana Jones series.In a Californian town, Elliot (Henry Thomas) is a lonely 10-year-old who lives with his single mother (Dee Wallace), teenage brother Michael (Robert MacNaughton) and younger sister Gertie (Drew Barrymore). Elliot is picked on by his brother but one night he finds a strangled alien in his back garden. Quickly Elliot befriends the alien who he calls E.T. and the trio of children both teach and aid E.T. who has telekinetic and healing powers. Soon Elliot and E.T. share a psychic link, but the longer E.T. stays on Earth the more ill he becomes, effecting Elliot. Added to the mix is a mystery government agency is hunting for E.T.Spielberg knows how to manipulate emotions and he certainly does it with E.T. . You feel for both the alien and the children. The characters are well defined, Elliot is the character most children can relate as he is a normal middle child who has intelligence, missing his father and is picked on by his brother. He is decently played by a young Henry Thomas and none of the acting was terrible. I personally like how Michael was portrayed: he is a bully, gets his younger brother to act as a slave and makes fun of him, but he is also protective and when it manners will come good for his younger siblings.The animatronic used for E.T. were top of the range at the time for time and looked really effective, giving E.T. emotion and physicality. I saw the 20th Anniversary DVD version which clearly added some CGI touch ups to E.T. and has the notorious scene where two guns are swapped for walkie-talkies: but it is hardly game breaker because the film is so great. John Williams also gives us another excellent film score, including a very famous signature we all know and love.E.T. is a touching film for good reason and it is a great film for whole family.
Jingle All the Way is one of these films which is so bad that you can't help watching it. You know it's bad for you, but you can't help yourself.Howard (Arnold Schwarzenegger) is a workaholic salesman who neglects his wife and son. He promises to make up for it by getting his son's Christmas present, a Turbo Man doll. The problem is he left his Christmas shopping to last minute and ends up trying to get the most popular toy on Christmas Eve. He ends up going through hell, fighting grannys, nearly getting arrested, and ends up competing with a mad postman (Sinbad) and his next door neighbour and divorced superdad Ted (Phil Hartman (Troy McClure and Lionel Hutz from the Simpsons)). Howard tests his own moral compass to discover the true meaning of Christmas.Of course this film was never going to be very good, it's a slapstick, family comedy with one of the most wooden actors staring in it. The only modern Christmas movie I like is Elf. But as I said this film is so bad and so cheesy that you end up watching and laughing for all the wrong reasons. It's such cheap humour that it's unbelievable. I love to know what financial trouble that Arnold Schwarzenegger must have been in to do this movie? He was one of the biggest movie stars in the world at the time, staring in the Terminator Series, Conan series, Predator, True Lies and Total Recall, to this. I know he was trying to branch out of the action genre to do comedy films, but that really was a mistake. Arnie was not a comedic actor. Even the great Phil Hartman was unfunny in this film which is sad to say.The writing may as well been down by a computer, it was weak and robotic. Possibly a few words words was typed in and the writer just came up with a cheap screenplay. Empire have described the director Brian Levant as the worst directors in Hollywood. This is the man who made a career making lazy family comedies, Beethoven, The Flintstones (ruining a classic cartoon), Snow Dogs and Are We Done Yet (a sequel to a rubbish film in the first place). All his films just focus on bad slapstick. Luckily he doesn't have much of a career now.Entertaining for all the wrong reasons.
Only America can seem to do good courtroom thrillers, no other country even seems to try. The courtroom drama has a long history with films like Twelve Angry Men and To Kill A Mockingbird to more modern films such as the Runaway Jury and The Exorcism of Emily Rose. A Few Good Men has the twist that it focuses on the military.A Few Good Men is about the legal investigation and trial of two marines accused of murdering another Marine at Guantanamo Bay. Lieutenant Commander Joanne Galloway (Demi Moore) wanted to represent the men but whilst known as a good investigator she is very slow at cases. Her superiors bring in Lt. Daniel Kaffee (Tom Cruise), a young member of the JAG team who has a reputation to settle cases out of court. Both Daniel and Joanne take an instant dislike to each other and have different views on taken on the case. But whilst investigating their discovery a culture of abuse being used at Gitmo where superior officers use recruits to force people to shape up and that the dead marine had requested a transfered numerous times.The film has an excellent cast, Tom Cruise in my mind is a good actor and he should do more serious films and he has a real claim in this film where you grow to like him. Demi Moore was decent and believe as Joanne, the military lawyer who has a passion for justice. Jack Nicholson is a strong present even with his short amount of screen-time. Other supporting actors were also very good in the film including Kiefer Sutherland, Kevin Bacon, Kevin Pollak, J.T. Walsh and Wolfgang Bodison.This is a film of themes about justice and the military, especially the culture and difference between officers. The theme of military has always been an issue and still is today all over the world. The abuse theme also reminded me of Full Metal Jacket. The film also relates to the American military's role in the War of Terror with American soldiers abusing detainees.The writer of the film was Aaron Sorkin who based it on his own stage play. To me Sorkin is a genius, giving the world The West Wing and he is a talented writer, mixing in serious topics and some good moments of humour. He made a wonderful screenplay and made his play cinematic.The direction of Rob Reiner was pretty standard, he knows how to handle to camera and got good performances from his actors. He too was able to mix serious and humour. Reiner is the man who also gave the work This is Spinal Tap and Misery.Whilst the film is good, there is a few too many grand speeches and the ending was a bit to sentimental. But it is worth watching.
After the commercial success of Mission Impossible in 1996 it seemed that America had a spy film that could rival James Bond, and Hollywood being Hollywood, a sequel was inevitable. Here was a vehicle for Tom Cruise that had served him well. In Mission Impossible turned from a spy thriller to an completely out and out action extravaganza; but the film suffers for it.The plot (what their is of it) is about a Russian scientist, Dr. Nekhorvich (Rade erbedija), a former agent of Ethan Hunt (Tom Cruise), injects him with a new supervirus Chimera, hoping to give it to the Americans along with the antidote. But ends up being murdered by former IMF Sean Ambrose (Dougray Scott) and crushes a commercial plane into the Rocky Mountains. Sean Ambrose plans to sell the virus to the bidder, with pharmaceutical companies and terrorist jobs the main bidders. It up to IMF and Ethan Hunt to do this. Ethan is required recruit theft Nyah Nordoff-Hall (Thandie Newton) to fake a relationship with Sean so they can find him.The plot and story is too simple, too stupid and basically can't compare to either the first or third film. The dialogue is terrible, and the script is full of plot-holes. Non-American nationals are also treated in a stereotypical way and they so many needless actions scenes, like the car chase in Spain. What is really surprising is the writer for the film was Robert Towne, who wrote Mission Impossible and has an impressive filmography, like Chinatown and Bonnie and Clyde. It didn't even seem like a sequel to the first film because it style, story and just so many changes made in this film. John Woo was hired to direct. He is a man who is a talented action director, but he is a man who needs to work in Asia because his style is more suited to Hong Kong cinema. He is also a man who needs strong material or else his films fall flat. Most of his Hollywood efforts have been weak. There are some strengths; the action and the material arts are very well done, and properly some of best in the series. It is not overly edited or any shaky cam that affected the enjoyment of the second Bourne films. They is also a delicious amount of violence in the film. But even with the action scenes some area where so over the top it was ridiculous and John Woo really enjoyed using sparks to simulate bullets and enjoyed repeated shots of the same scene. There are some element's of Woo direction I liked. I did enjoy his trick of using classical music over action scene, but I do dislike the over use of slow motion.Now to the acting. Tom Cruise seemed to be on autopilot in this film. His heart wasn't in it like it was in M:I and M:I III. They was a lack of chemistry with Thandie Newton and she is weak compared to her high standards. Dougray Scott was a decent villain, but he isn't as good as actors like Jon Voight, Kristian Scott Thomas and Philip Seymore Hoffman who enjoyed roles in the series. Scott had also suffered career wises, he was due to play Wolverine in X-Men but the film shot overshot and lost the part of Hugh Jackman and was in the running to be the next James Bond. Now Scott hasn't been in anything good for a long time. Ving Rhames, normally a very good actor, was really just comic fodder in this film. I also thought Australian actor John Polson was not good in this film.They is excellent music by Hans Zimmer, who is one of the best composers in the movie industry at the moment.Finally, the whole series is schizophrenic, neither knowing whether to be thriller based or action based or even what it's setting is going to be. Mission Impossible was set as a black ops division of the CIA (the best setting), M:I II, Ethan Hunt pretty much a lone agent for some sort of international group, and M:I III which IMF was an independence organisation. Some coincidence wouldn't go a miss.** out of *****
The Island is an entertaining film, a decent sci-fi adventure. The story of the movie is an underground facility has the last remains of humanity after an environmental disaster. The people lived in a controlled environment and the people lived in hope that they would be picked to go to the Island, the only safe place left on Earth. However, Lincoln Six-Echo (Ewan McGregor) starts to question the society he was living in and with Jordan Two Delta (Scarlett Johansson), both make it to the real world. They discovery that everyone had been lied to, that the world was habitable and that they were really clones of the rich and famous.The film was directed by Michael Bay, famous for big dumb action films like Bad Boys, the Rock, Armageddon and Transformers. The Island was Bay's first flop, but it is not his worst film. It is a little more intelligence and more subtle (I use these themes loosely). It does have good actions, which is what someone would expect from a Bay film. The film was set in 2019, and I believe that future world that was created in the film wasn't far-fetched and could possibly happen. The acting was decent, McGregor is also an actor I like. Johansson is a nice bit of eye candy and isn't a bad actress. Sean Bean is a good actor and plays the villain in the film, which he normally does. Steve Buscemi adds a bit of comic relief and an actor Bay likes to use. Michael Clarke Duncan, an other actor Bay likes, has pretty much a cameo role.The films does have some problems. There is too much product placement, which I understand, but they is a limit to how much a film can get away with. Another example of a film with too much product placement would be Die Another Day. The film could have been a little shorter, but only a little. Also the film does have a few plot holes such as why don't more clones question the system they live in or why there is an Island or that sexually attraction is natural, no matter whether some has sex education or not.However, the Island is good and is worth watching if on TV or a good priced DVD.
No matter what I or any one else say, there will be a lot of people who have already made up their minds on whether they are going to The Twilight Saga: Breaking Dawn - Part 1 and the most positive or negative reviews will never change that. Opinions between Twi-hards and Twi-haters are extremely polarised, but it is my duty to give an honest opinion on the latest chapter of the saga.It has finally happened. Edward (Robert Pattinson) and Bella (Kristen Stewart) have tied the knot and, despite some pre-wedding nerves, it seems like a success. The two lovers spend their honeymoon on a tropical island off the coast of Brazil and we get the moment we have all been waiting for: they finally have sex. But a shock is in store when Bella ends up pregnant (remember kids, always practise safe sex) and the human-vampire foetus is killing her from the inside. As the Cullens try to save Bella, the Quileute tribe set out to kill her and the child, believing it will be a threat and abomination. Jacob (Taylor Lautner) ends up being torn between his loyalty to the tribe, his hatred for Edward, and his love for Bella.There is a new trend in Hollywood to split book adaptations into two parts. It made sense with Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, because that was a long novel with a many elements that were interlinked and it needed to be told in two parts, but "Breaking Dawn Part 1" was trying to stretch the material to fit the allocated time. There are numerous montages, such as the honeymoon, which could have easily been shortened to make a single, stronger movie. The film had very little plot too; it's basically about a complicated pregnancy that just happened to feature vampires and werewolves.There is a melodramatic tone throughout, amplified by the music, whether it was the piano-heavy soft moments, the epic score (often played over non-epic moments), or the emo rock songs. A little melodrama is fine, but it goes on for most of the movie, and when there is little hook of a story, it just becomes a drag. Even people who are fans to the series will admit that dialogue has never been its strong suit. Bill Condon attempts to make the sex scene and honeymoon to be tender, but it came off more sappy and overbearing."Part 1's" strength is that it is the best-acted of the series. Stewart certainly gives it a good go and Lautner gives what is a half-way decent performance. Pattinson was slumming it, but with some of the cheesy dialogue he has to say, even someone like Laurence Olivier would have struggled.Condon does have a few moments of visual darkness, including the dream sequence in the beginning with its juxtaposition of bright white clothing and blood and Bella and Edward standing on top of a load of corpses. The birth scene was actually intense and gory. But these are counter-balanced with goofy moments, one of the most infamous being a psychic werewolf argument.The whole wedding sequence and honeymoon plays like a young girl's fantasy, sort of idealistic. This is fine, but hardly dramatic and not likely to have wide appeal.Previous "Twilight" movies have had some interesting side issues that could and should have been explored. This is not the case with "Part 1." There are no issues of a man resisting his urges and dark side, a young teen forced into being a vampire, an army of powerful new vampires being formed and the idea of there being a vampire council. There is nothing like that. The few themes there are include a look into Edward's past, a brief debate about abortion and the idea of imprinting, which is basically brainwashing. A better idea could be looking at somebody forcing someone else to love them. That would be a dark story."Breaking Dawn Part 1" is the weakest movie in the series I have seen so far and I speak as someone who is neutral to the overall experience.Please visit www.entertainmentfuse.com
When I found out that Bryan Singer left the X-Men series to do Superman Returns I was upset, Singer did truly make X-Men his own. I would have love to see do X-Men 3, especially since Brett Ratner and Simon Kinberg ruined the series. At least Superman Returns washes out the bitter aftertaste.Superman Returns is set 5 years after the events in Superman II. Superman had gone off to search for the remains of Krypton. During this time Earth had changed. Lois Lane got married to a journalist at the Daily Planet and wrote an article about 'Why the world does not need Superman' which won her an award. Lois also has a 4-year-old son. Lex Luther was also free from prison and regains his wealth, and goes plans for world domination. Superman was still in love with Lois, and sets out to prove that the world still needs him. He is re-introduced to world in dramatic style, when he saves a plane that was being used to send a space shuttle into space, on a excellent scene. He then goes on a one man crusade to save the world from crime and disaster. Lex Luther meanwhile goes to Superman's Fortress of Solitude and uses the memory crystals to tell him all the knowledge of the universe. He then sets off on his grand scheme to create a new continent, using the crystals. Destorying half of North America was not an issue to him.Some people have criticised this film, but I will stick to the majority of critics who thought that this was a very good film. It's not as good as X-Men 1 and 2, but that's because X-Men is a better comic-book series. The fifth Superman film has has a troubled history, and had many writers, actors and directors attached to the project. This included Kevin Smith, Tim Burton and Nicolas Cage, J.J. Abrams, McG and Brett Ratner and Wolfgang Petersen and Matt Damon. There were fears that this film would never be made. Bryan Singer is a excellent director, with a really good writing team. Singer had great casting instincts: Kevin Spacey was the best as Lex Luther, but all the other actors in the did very way with the film. The special effects were top-notch, and gets ruin of the imagine of the 70s and 80s films. Metropolis is made to look like a city in its own right, compared to the previous films that were just filmed in New York. The film also makes the right move to ignore Superman III and IV, and may set of a blue-print of ignore other bad sequel, i.e. X-Men 3. Some people have complained that Lex Luther's plan made no scene, well did the plans in the previous films make any scene? I would admit that Lex Luther might need a re-invention, because in the comics he has changed from a mad-scientist/evil criminal to a Machiavellian industrialist who becomes President of the United States. I though that Kevin Spacey was better then Gene Hackman and there was good comedy between Lex and Kitty Kowalski. There was great chemistry between Spacey and Parker Posey. Casting Brandon Routh was also a good casting choice by Singer. Casting an unknown kept the focus on the film and not on the star. There was talk that Tom Welling, Clark Kent from Smallville, was going to be casted as Superman. In my mind that would have been on of the worst idea ever if it was done. Singer was also able to add some emotional depth to Superman, similar to Sam Ramini when he made the Spiderman films. It makes the film more interesting and does have ideas about whether the world needs a saviour or whether it should be able to solve its own problems. There were also good little injokes, such as the mention of Gotham city. Superman Returns is a bit more family friendly compared to other superhero films, but I don't think that is a bad thing. Superman has always been more child friendly compared to X-Men and Batman, and this film is prove that you can make a smart good family superhero film, compared to Batman Forever and Batman and Robin which were bad.I do admit that the film could have been more action packed, but X-Men did not have a lot of action in it and Singer cracked it up several levels for X-Men 2 and he will do it with the next Superman film. It also proves that there is still live in Superman. My other major problem with Superman is that he is powerful, there is nothing that can really stop him. Lex Luther is really just a mad man in the films and Superman needs someone that can truly challenge him.Overall, Superman Returns is the best Superman film so-far.
Film Noir is easily recognised as one of the best genres and periods in Hollywood history, offer audiences darker tales with faulted characters and often had a femme fatale love interest. This is a genre that has given us some real classics like Sunset Boulevard, Kiss Me Deadly and Touch of Evil. This is a genre that later influenced great films like Blade Runner and Sin City. The Maltese Falcon is recognised as the film that started this genre.Sam Spade (Humphrey Bogart) was a skilled private detective in San Francisco and a client, Ruth Wonderly (Mary Astor) asked him to find her sister. Spade accepts the case but his partner is killed it becomes clear that there is more to this case then meets the eye.Joel Cairo (Peter Lorre) also offers Spade $5,000 to help him find The Maltese Falcon, a small black statue of particular value. Cairo had been betrayed by Wonderley and Spade quickly becomes entangled in this complex case.As well as being the first major film noir, The Maltese Falcon was the first film from John Huston, the director of The Asphalt Jungle, The African Queen and The Man Who Would be King. This was also the film that made Bogart into a star. So The Maltese Falcon is an important film from a historical scene.Huston shows great skill as a director, having a dark tone, a strong tone, effective lighting to add to the mood of the film and uses few settings to effectively tell the story. Huston shows Spade's is a resourceful, clever and only uses violence when he has to do. The final took place in one room, showing Huston's skill with it's simplicity.Spade is a excellent example of a faulted hero. He is a womaniser and his primary concern is money: but these faults makes Spade into a more believable character and Bogart was excellent choice for the part. Lorre too was a good choice as the generic foreign villain (or at least on of them), showing he was a top performer. Elisha Cook, Jr. was also an actor of note in the role as Wilmer, a henchman for the main villain of the film.A skilfully made film and start of a great genre.
John Turturro is best known to mainstream for his role as Agent Simmons in the Transformers series and has had to suffer many indignities for his sins. But with his latest film, Turturro gets to portray what some may regard as a wish fulfilling role playing a successful gigolo who gets to sleep with many beautiful ladies.Fioravante (John Turturro) is a part-time florist who helps his old friend Murray (Woody Allen)  whose bookshop goes out of business. Hard-up for cash Murray tells Fioravante about Dr. Parker (Sharon Stone) who wants to have a threesome with her friend and suggested Fioravante for the role. Soon Fioravante becomes a successful gigolo with Murray as his pimp. But Fioravante's life is complicated by his relationship with an orthodox Jewish widow, Avigal (Vanessa Paradis).Fading Gigolo has advertised as a comedy with some of the main quotes on the poster focusing on the comic elements. But the film is as much a drama as it is a comedy and a very mixed bag. It is a film that has some excellent moments but the individual elements do not make the sum of its parts. At a 90 minute running time Fading Gigolo has some parts which were only very minor, playing a bigger role in an earlier draft of the screenplay and should have been cut completely.Allen is the comic highlight of the film, bringing energy and expert comic timing. He has the best lines, many based on his new profession or his Jewish heritage. Some of recognisable neurotic persona is around, but it is not as prevalent as it has been. Allen has a particularly strong relationship and interplay with Turturro and the two make a good double act.The other really strong element of the film is the relationship between Turturro and Paradis. Both actors are excellent together and give good performances. Turturro directs their scenes together with a tenderness that was required and their scenes together were given emotional weight. Two scenes of note were Fioravante and Avigal first encountering and when the pair are in a park; given extra power by long takes and the lovely cinematography.The two women that want a threesome are Sharon Stone and Modern Family's Sofía Vergara, two of the least likely women who would struggle to find a man to join them. Even if they did, considering we live in the digital age, they could surely find someone on the internet.Fading Gigolo is a deliberately old-fashioned film, using classic cinematography of long takes, a jazzy score and focuses on close-knit communities. While the film has some solid comic and dramatic moments it suffers from major tonal shift and an unfocused screenplay.Please visit www.rocknreelreviews.com
Clint Eastwood's Unforgiven helped reinvent the Western for modern audiences in the 90s but it was still unpopular genre. 1993 and 1994 also saw two films about legendary Wyatt Earp Old West hero being released in a short space of time.In 1879 lots of people are heading West in America to make their fortunes, buying land to become farmers, ranchers, miners or various businessmen. But it was also a wild place and in Arizona and there is a violence gang, the Cowboys who wear red sash who strike fear in the area. In Tombstone, the Earp brothers, Wyatt (Kurt Russell), Viral (Sam Elliot) and Morgan (Bill Paxton) move to the town, Wyatt being a famous peace officer from Kansas. Wyatt wants a peaceful life but many things prevent him, his wife's (Dana Wheeler-Nicholson), his interest in an actress, Josephine (Dana Delany) and his personal sense of justice make him and his brothers get involved with law enforcement. As the Earps get into conflict with the Cowboys the violence start to escalate.Tombstone does have an old-fashion feel with its story of a more simple tale of good vs. evil and the score felt like it was from an older film. But at the same time there is more willingness to show violence, that bullets are painful, that the Old West is rough and that knives were used. Director George P. Cosmatos certainly knew how to make the film tense, building scenes up as characters come into conflict and not letting you guess if the scene is going to end up having a violence conclusion. Particular scenes of note are when Wyatt as a poker dealer comes into clash with the Cowboys as his drunk friend Doc Holliday (Val Kilmer) challenges one of them and Wyatt has a shotgun under the table, the other being the build up to the Gunfight at the O.K. Coral, knowing something major is about to happen and the music really fitting the tone.The actions scenes were strong: quick, snappy and violence. They are fast paced and well edited, not using shaky cam or quick cuts. It what I want in a Western.Acting wise whilst Russell is prone to some meladramatic moments it shows that given the right material he can be a good actor and his Wyatt Earp is smart, tough with a sense of justice but also good wit with behind him. A particular scene being when Wyatt beats a dodgy poker dealer out of a saloon. Kilmer also surprising gives a good performance as a TB suffering alcoholic who is good gun slider and ally to Wyatt. Kilmer makes him softly spoken and a slightly campy fella but still a tough man to fight against despite his illness. Elliot is always a strong performer and most of the acting is solid in the film.Reading the trivia page on IMDb, Kevin Jarre originally wrote the film as a longer, more epic story and I can see that with many elements were cut. Wyatt's relationships with wife and Josephine were not explored very much and I bet in the original version of the script there would have been more of a focus on personal drama. After the family is attacked as well the film seems to speed alone very quickly as Wyatt and Holiday hunt the Cowboys: it feels very rushed.Overall Tombstone is enjoyable to anyone who is a fan of the Western genre.
John le Carre is deserving considered one of the best spy novelist ever and his career is going strong. The Spy Who Came in from the Cold, which is debated to one of his best novel, was the first one to receive a film adaptation.Alec Leamas (Richard Burton) is a British field agent and the station chief of the British Security Intelligence Service in East Germany. But after his last agent is killed in an operation gone wrong Leamas is recalled to London where he is offered a desk job or go undercover to bring down the head of counter-intelligence in East Germany, the brutal Mundt. Leamas has to go deep undercover, becoming a heavy drinker, getting a job as a library assistant, forms a relationship with a young Communist, Nan Perry (Claire Bloom) and ends up beating up a shopkeeper. When the East Germans make contact with Leamas he tells them everything about his 'operations' but it is an extremely risky mission where everything can go wrong.The Spy Who Came in from the Cold is my favourite le Carre novel, a taut, well-paced little novel that despite its complex subject and plot was an easy read. The film version is a very dialogue heavy affair and it could have easily have worked as a stage play. The film is compliment with the cast it had as the actors gave strong performances, even if Burton did occasionally fall into 60s melodrama but he does know how to convey a look.For the most part the film is a loyal adaptation of the source material, with the film taking a three part structure, the first being Leamas' downfall in a more grounded drama, the second, Leamas' mission and the third being a courtroom drama. But there are changes; some are very minor that it doesn't make a different that it does not make much different. Some are more major like Nan Perry (who is called Liz Gold in the film) is Jewish in the book, which is an important character element, but simply a communist for the film. Mundt to did not feel as nasty as he was in the book, Mundt was a anti-Semite who is not a shy about his views. It is the third act that suffers the most changes, particularly the conversations between Leamas and Nan.Le Carre is always known for his realism to spy fiction and his work was always seen as a counter to the glamour of James Bond. In The Spy Who Came in the From Cold he sets out to be a more grounded, downbeat world that is the opposite of the James Bond world. There is no glamour, no action where characters have few relationships and operations are long- term endeavours that are about meticulous planning and everything has to go right. The world of espionage is made out of be a world of moral greys especially as we get to the end, but I wish they the film did show Fiedler was shown to be good, decent person with Nan. And I would to have liked a line about MI6 agent simply disliking Communism.The Spy Who Came in From the Cold is a solid adaptation of a classic novel, but it is not the easiest novel to translate into film due to novel's more explanation style of storytelling which is not suited to film. It is a better a better novel then a film.
Psycho is widely regarded as one of Alfred Hitchcock's best films and one of the first slasher films ever made.In Phoenix, Arizona, Marion Crane (Janet Leigh) is a secretary who steals with $40,000 from one of her bosses clients. Marion flees the city and goes on a trip where sees ends up staying at the Bates Motel, meeting the owner Norman Bates (Anthony Perkins) who has a very unusual relationship with his mother.Hitchcock is of course the master of suspense and throughout Psycho there is a very intense atmosphere throughout the film. There is constant tension and build up during the film with Hitchcock using long takes and conversations, dark shots and imaginary and that very famous film score. Whilst the film is a horror and slasher, Hitchcock allows us to know the characters and he plays to his strength as a thriller director, particular in the second half. This is not a film about violence and killings like a lot of modern slashers are. It is a film particularly at the time that aimed to shock you with the violence, not for you to linger or relish it.There is an excellent cast in the film and it is clear why the role of Norman Bates was so iconic for Perkins. Perkins gave Bates a nervous energy with his seemingly shy, nice demeanour which secretly harbours a dark personality and secret. The last shot of the film makes Perkins look very much like Heath Ledger's version of the Joker with his creepy smile.Psycho was a risky film for the time: bloody on screen violence was rarity, even when it saved a narrative purpose and the woman who is the main character gets killed off at around 50 minute mark. This is a story technique that is still rarity used and most films still stick to a traditional narrative. Because of the killing Hitchcock changes the style of film from a horror to thriller/mystery and Hitchcock is able to blend them together perfectly.Psycho is of course a classic film and great example that tension and likable/relatable characters are key for a horror film to success. The visions, performances, atmosphere and music were all fitting for the film.
I really like the Bourne Trilogy and is one of the few film trilogies that work on all three instalments. I really like Bond films and spy films in general and the good thing about this series was it forced Bond to change and make the excellent Casino Royale.This film was easily the best blockbuster in 2007 and the best out of all the threequels that year.The basic plot is Jason Bourne is still looking for his identity and is out for revenge against the C.I.A who had taken his life away from him. The film shows that an black-ops division known as Blackfaire which does all the C.I.A's dirty work such as training agents like Bourne, spying on anyone they think is a threat to America and even assassin people. This includes a British journalist in the middle of Waterloo station and American citizens. Bourne goes on a personal mission taking him to London, Madrid, Tangiers and New York. The plot is pretty complex and you will need to watch the Bourne Identity and Bourne Supremacy before watching this film.They is great action in the film, especially the fight and chase scene in Tangiers. But what makes it different to other action films is they is a good plot and a heart to it. It shows the black side of the C.I.A: this is because the director Paul Greengrass is politically left-wing and very happy to show it. It is also different because it shows an American institution as the bad guy and questions it morales, compared to say 24 which it shows that the American would be very willing to torture people because they feel the end just justifies the means and that it would get information quickly. They are still guy characters within the C.I.A such as Pamela Landy and Nicky Parson.They is good casting in this film, it help make Matt Damon from a decent actor to an action star, Julia Stiles best films and they are many other good actors in the film. This film easily plugs the gap until Quantum of Solace comes out this year. One thing I do worry about is talks of a sequel, which I don't know how they would do it.
The 1990 version of Total Recall is a sci-fi action classic and one of Arnold Schwarzenegger's best films: but it was known for being a loose adaptation of the Philip K. Dick story We Can Remember It For You Wholesale. Sadly the 2012 remake is great example of turning a classic film into genuine sci-fi.In the future most of the world is decimated by a chemical war and only two population centres are left; the United Federation of Britain run by Chancellor Cohaagen (Bryan Cranston) and the poverty stricken The Colony based in Australia. The territories are joined by a gravity lift known as The Fall and many people from The Colony work in the UFB's factories. But tensions are increasing between the UFB and The Colony as a terrorist leader known as Matthias (Bill Nighy) is launching a bombing campaign against the UFB and the futuristic version of London.In the middle of this conflict is Douglas Quaid (Colin Farrell), a factory worker who has recurring dreams. Quaid goes to Rekall to implant memories in his head: but ends up discovering he was a spy working for the Resistance and his wife Lori (Kate Beckinsale) is a highly trained spy who meant to keep him under control. Quaid has to go to the UFB to find out who he is with a resistance member, Melina (Jessica Biel) and stop Cohaagen's evil plan.The original Total Recall worked on a number of levels, it was a well done mystery, had a dark scene of humour, a very well thought political situation and had plenty of substance and themes and worked as a hardcore, brutal actioner. The remake is basically a dumbed downed version with a more idiotic and unbelievable world (which is something considering the original was set on Mars) and nor had an themes like the original. Kurt Wimmer, the writer/director of the overrated Equilibrium wrote this adaptation and his grumpy fingerprints are all over this adaptation and the very clumsy world building.Len Wiseman of the Underworld series and the surprisingly good fourth Die Hard film took on the directing duties. Wiseman does give us some decent action sequences, but his remake was basically wall-to-wall action and it did not have the raw nature of the original. Wiseman's visual approach is basically a mix of other sci-fi films, particularly the slums looking like Blade Runner, to the cars and moving lifts looking like Minority Report and the white, clean world of J.J. Abrams' Star Trek with a little sprinkling of I, Robot. The film also references V for Vendetta with the use of a dyspotic version of Britain in a destroyed world, has a Chancellor instead of a Prime Minister or President and how the Chancellor maintains power is similar to how the Norsefire party rose to power.For a $200 Million blockbuster this remake has some of the worst cinematography you will find in a major film: it was too dark and murky to make anything out in the early scenes in the slums and there is so much lens flare that even J.J. Abrams would have been embarrassed. There are some decent angles during the fight sequence in the moving lifts but it is too dark at times. Also some of the special effects were also weak for a big budget film, particularly during the car chase in London where the effects don't hold up so well.Colin Farrell was okay but his accent kept slipping during the film, but he was a solid enough lead and he could do the fight scenes. Beckingsale's Lori was combination of the original Lori and Michael Ironside's Ritchter, acting as both the fake wife and the determined hunter. She is convincing in the action sequences but she was poor as one of the villains. Biel too was underwhelming as the other main leads. Overall the film was a downgrade to the cast of the original.The 2012 version of Total Recall is a poor film both as a remake of a classic film and as a sci-fi film in its own right. The original had much more to say, much more subtle and more entertaining. And the saddest part is a remake could have worked well if the writing was better and expand the already existing themes.
Back in the 70s there was a new wave of grim and gritty cinema that was not afraid to show violent or sexual scenes. One of them was Last Tango in Paris which was notorious for earning an X rating in America and has an infamous anal sex scene. But Last Tango in Paris is a nihilistic piece which is offers nothing in themes. Last Tango in Paris is blessed with some top acting, particularly from Marlon Brando who does a great job as the lead character, playing a complete scumbag. The film does have a deliberately old fashion, film noir style with the framing of its shots and use of camera movement, including a well done scene in silhouette. But on the whole Last Tango in Paris is a film that does not offer much in themes despite the pretences to be art house, having very long and drawn dialogue scenes and during the course of the film I was wondering why was a young woman like Jeanette (Maria Schneider) was drawn to a middle aged man like Paul (Brando) at all. There are some moments of visual and acting greatness but on the whole the film is a ponderous experience and a vastly overrated.
Tucker and Dale vs. Evil is a horror-comedy that quickly developing a cult following and there is good reason as it takes on and subvert the clichés of the slasher genre and twists them into something new.Tucker (Alan Tudyk) and Dale (Tyler Labine) are two hillibillies who have just brought a vacation home in the mountains of West Virginia and go there to fix it up, despite not seeing the strange iconography in the house. A group of college kids also go to the mountains to go camp and they imminently distrust the hillibiillies and through a series of misunderstanding think they are slasher killers, especially after they save one of them, Ally (Katrina Bowden). Most of the students want to go to the police, but their Chad (Jesse Moss) has a deep-seeded hatred towards hilibillies and wants to go war with the pair.Tucker and Dale vs. Evil two main jokes, it is a series of misunderstanding and role reverses: but it does both of them very well. It is clear the filmmakers have a lot of knowledge of the horror genre and wanted to parody the genre. The role reversal was very well handled, that it was the college kid that was psycho-killer and the hillibillies are the protagonists. Tucker and Dale are made out to be likable guys and the college kids are actually aware of the situation and want to do the logical thing: go away and get the police but are led array by someone with serious psychological issues.There are many different types of humour through the film. Besides from the satire and parody of the horror genre there is also plenty of violence slapstick as people start dying in very fun ways and there were also a lot of good dialogue and verbal jokes (my personal favourite involved a gun).Tudyk and Labine have shown themselves to be capable actors in previous roles and they had great chemistry together. They did feel like there were friends for years and were likable enough presence on screen. Bowden and Moss were decent enough in their roles, but the rest of the college kids were bad: my theory was that it was deliberate so that the film can play on the fact slashers have bad actors but the teens in this film act more realistically.At 86 minutes the running time is very short, even for a horror film. Director Eli Craig does a great job at moving the film forward, making sure there is no fat and keeps a scene of fun throughout, even when the film is not being a horror or comedy film, i.e. the final climax.Tucker and Dale vs. Evil is a fun film as a comedy but truly shines as a parody of the horror/slasher genre. Horror fans and people with a slightly darker sense but there is plenty for people to enjoy because of the comedy.
Friends did pretty much rule American comedy culture and one of the most popular programmes in the world. The premise of the sitcom is about six friends from New York starting, in their mid 20s and goes into their 30s. They are Rachel Green, a woman working in the fashion industry; Ross Gellar, a paleontologist who is in love with Rachel; Monica Gellar, Ross' sister, Rachel's best friend and a successful chef; Chandler Bing, an office manager, Ross university roommate and later marries Monica; Joey Tribbiani, an actor who loves women and food; and finally Phoebe Buffay, a masseuse and the most Bohemian of the group.Friends had some top writers working on the show and kept it consituenly funny, also had drama and strong character development and you see how they all change. Everyone has a favourite character, my was Chancellor. This is comfort viewing, it doesn't matter how many times you have seen it you can just easily watch it over and over again. I grew up with Friends, and like the Simpsons at its peak a highlight of how good American television can be.Friends was also able to employ top guest stars such as Bruce Willis, Tom Selleck and Hank Azaria. The key actors all had a excellent comedic timing and Friends always did well at the Emmys.There are some problems in later series. Joey slowly becomes more dumber; when Friends started, Joey was not as well read as the other character but he wasn't stupid. However his intelligence level fell as the show progressed. Also Ross become more nonionic and Phoebe is made more wacky and less realist as a character.Friends is comfort viewing.
I have just watched this film for the first time and I thought it was excellent. The plot of If... was it was set in a English Public School where senior students ruled and the younger students had endure a harsh regime. The teachers were not much better giving out harsh punishments including cold showers and caning. Malcolm McDowell plays Mick Travis who along with his friends refuse to conform to the system. The films shows how they resist and how the teachers and follow students are unable to deal with them. The films ends with Travis and his friends taking violence action against the school.The film was influenced the counter-culture movement of the 60s. It also would have been influenced by youth movements such as the Mods and Rockers. Politically the film was also Left-Wing, showing photos of Marxist leaders such as Mao, Lenin and Che Guenna and Travis practising shooting on photos of the Queen and Politicians. Travis and his friends are shown to be intellectual, reading and coming up with statements such as 'Revolution is the only pure act.' If... also coinsided with the Paris riots and has been mistaken for being influenced by the events.The film also combines a grim and stark view of the Public School system which was a target of the film, and shows things that possibly really did happen, but it also has surreal dream sequences. I feel the two together worked very well. If... also reminded me of A Clockwork Orange, which also started Malcolm McDowell. This was because of the idea of show a dystopia society (on a smaller scale) and the idea of youth running wild and uncontrolled. I would say if you liked A Clockwork Orange then you would like If...
If you watch American cinema and television you would believe that pretty much all police officers in New York and Los Andreas are either corrupt or become vigilantes. Hopefully that is really the case. Here is another film following these themes in the tradition of films like Dirty Harry.The film tells the story of Detective Tom Ludlow (Keanu Reeves), a grief stricken officer who often takes the law in his own hands. The film starts off with him raiding the home of Korean gangsters and saves two 14-year-old who had been kidnapped. This quickly make him into a hero cop. His former partner Detective Washington (Terry Crews) dislikes his methods and goes to Internal Affairs Officer Captain James Biggs (Hugh Laurie) to investigate Ludlow. Washington ends up getting killed by two gangbangers, and evidence shows that Ludlow could be a suspect: he was in the wrong place at the wrong time. The department run by Captain Jack Wander (Forest Whitaker) were willing to bury the incident. But Ludlow believes that something dodgy has happened, and ends up working with Homicide Detective Paul Diskant (Chris Evans). They soon discover something much more complex is going on.This is an action-filled film, and I can praise it for the realism involving the violence, and for the fact the film focuses on the rougher areas of L.A. It does show an interest in racial politics, poverty and gang violence. There are also good performances by Forest Whitaker and Hugh Laurie (it's good to see him doing well in Hollywood).But there are problems with this film. The biggest problem is the script, which is filled with poor dialogue and plot holes. Some elements didn't feel as realistic or gritty as it should have been. It also lacks a moral compass, with the view to supporting vigilantism, especially in the beginning. It felt like the film was trying to be an extended episode of The Shield (a good American programme). But unlike The Shield the plot isn't as strong and there are more sympathetic officers in the programme to balance out the anti-hero lead. It also felt like that The Departed and Infernal Affairs were an influence on this film; but this is no Scorsese or Andrew Lau/Alan Mak film. It should have tried to stand on it's own two feet. There are also problems such as when Washington is shot. He has two men with machine guns shooting him at point blank range but his body is still in tack, he is able to stay on his knees and doesn't not die straight away. It's not very realism, especially with the type of film this it. The film takes itself a little too seriously.There is a poor choice in a leading man, Keanu Reeves. Reeves is a very successful actor, and I do like him in The Matrix and A Scanner Darkly. But he is also one of the most uncharismatic actors around and does not have the acting chops for this type of role. An like Christian Bale would have been more fitting.The director for this film is David Ayer, a successful screenwriter of Training Day and the really bad U-571 (which he has at least said sorry for). This is his second feature and I think he does have some potential. But he is from the kinetic school of directing where the camera doesn't stay still for any scene, whether it's an action scene or a more calmer discussion. His early action scene was so overly edited that it was distracting from the action itself.An okay film, but could have been a lot better.
There have many adaptations of Shakespeare plays over the years, including modernisations. From successes like Baz Luhrmann's Romeo + Juliet to ... not successes like Sam Worthington's 2006 version of Macbeth. Ralph Fiennes has turned to a lesser-known Shakespeare play in Coriolanus for his directing debut.Rome is in chaos, the country is in the middle of a food shortage, the plebs are rioting and tensions within the nation of Volsci are flaring up on Rome's borders. Caius Marius Coriolanus (Fiennes) is a top commander, with the scars to prove it. After a battle between Rome and Volsci and between Coriolanus and his mortal enemy Tullus Aufudius (Gerald Butler), Coriolanus is hailed a hero. Senator Menenius (Brian Cox) convinces Coriolanus to run for Consul of Rome, despite his contempt for the common people. Another senator, Sicinus (James Nesbitt) leads the plebs to exile the war hero, forcing Coriolanus to plot his revenge with none other than his enemy.Coriolanus is a character-driven and incredibly acted movie from the whole cast. Fiennes shows his passion and love for the text, and is able to deliver those Shakespearian speeches with real conviction. It is also easily Gerald Butler's best performance.Fiennes shows incredible skill with his debut behind the camera as well. Coriolanus is a very fast paced and accessible film. Fiennes employs The Hurt Locker cinematographer Barry Ackroyd to give war scenes an intense, gritty feel that will make you feel like you are in the middle of a war zone. News reports help set the movie's context and all the background information, which really shows the wider picture of what is going on involving the famine and war. It was done with expert skill and Fiennes employs respected British newsreader Jon Snow (not the Game of Thrones character), which surprisingly works.Like with any Shakespeare play and adaptation there are plenty of themes in Coriolanus that everyone from movie fans to academics can sink their teeth into. Coriolanus is about the downfall of a great and important man who falls when he enters politics. Politics is a major target and it works in a modern context, as Coriolanus has to press the fresh, make deals and try to appeal to the masses, even though he does not like them. It is also about a clique of political leaders who look for a candidate that would be popular and ensure victory, not for the best or most appropriate candidate. Like in most Shakespeare adaptations the characters are complex, willing to be flexible, have their own goals and ambitions, with the idea of good and evil being very subjective.Coriolanus is a very good Shakespeare movie and it is accessible to most audiences, even with the language barrier. It is an intelligent, intense movie and will please on a dramatic and intelligential level. Lets hope for more from Fiennes as a director as well as an actor and for Butler to find more juicy roles.Please visit www.playeraffinity.com
After seeing a lot of action films in cinema this year, with let downs like Transformers 2, Away We Go is a refreshing change. Here is a low budget, dramedy film with an top director and excellent cast and quite a funny little film.Away We Go focuses on Burt (John Krasinski) and Verona (Maya Rudolph), a couple in their thirties who are about to have their first baby. After finding out that Burt's parents are about to move abroad before the baby is born, and have no reason to stay in their home, they decide to go on a trip. They decide to move and want to choice between Phoenix, Tucson, Madison (Wisconsin) and Montreal. They visit old friends and discovery many different schools of parenting. They think about their relationship and the future of their unborn daughter, wanting the best for her.Their are top performances, especially from the leads. John Krasinski (who is very good in the American Office) and Maya Rudolph have great chemistry and know their comic craft. They can say a lot just with a facial expression. Both also do very well with the serious element as well. They is an excellent support cast, like Allison Janney (C.J. from the West Wing) as a foul, unpleasant woman and mother, Maggie Gyllenhaal as a nutty hippie, Jim Gaffigan as a really pessimistic man and many others like Melanie Lynskey, Josh Hamilton and Catherine O'Hara. Sam Mendas is a top director, directing the great American Beauty, good films like Road to Perdition and Jarhead and should have directed the Golden Compass. Here he gets the best out of his actors (as he always does) and understand comedic timing to make the film effect. Most of the humour is subtle, it is not a slapstick comedy like most big studio films are. The script keeps the humour on a natural level and adds a strong human/character element. They is a good script, with good jokes. But there are some elements that don't work. Some characters are a over the top and unrealistic, like LD (Maggie Gyllenhaal). She did well but her character was made out to be too stereotypical. Also at some points the film should have been funny, the laughs weren't belly laughs.However Away We Go is a worthy film, a subtle comedy that stands on it's own two feet. People from Judd Apatow, to hacks like Wayans Brothers and Jason Friedberg and Aaron Seltzer should take notice.
The Phelps family and the Westboro Baptist Church are some of the most horrid and despicable people, using Christianity as a mask and justification for their bigotry. Kevin Smith is a known critic of religious dogma and turned his sights on this horrible splinter group.In an unnamed middle American state, the Five Points Church led by Pastor Abin Cooper (Michael Parks) picket the funeral of a local murdered gay man. Three teenagers, Billy Ray (Nicholas Braun), Jared (Kyle Gallner) and Travis (Michael Angarano) discover a website of women who want to have sex and go on Saturday night to meet a local lady, Sarah Cooper (Melissa Leo). But Sarah is a member of the Five Points Church and the boys are drugged and captured. As the boys attempt to escape, matters escalate and the Five Points Church compound is placed under siege by the ATF, led by Special Agent Keenan (John Goodman).The Westboro Baptist Church is a clear target and Smith is showing that all religions can be turned to its extremes in order to justify horrific acts. This is clear social commentary and it is brave of Smith to attempt something different from his usual comedy movies. Parks is effectively sinister as the antagonist, having a eerie, calm, quiet charisma as he preaches his hatred. Smith employs quick edited, tight close ups and fast camera-work to adds some intensity in his movie and there is no music except for some hymns and songs on the radio, attempting to make the movie a little more haunting. In addition, Smith does not hold back on the sadistic violence or torture. And the action during the siege was fast and bloody as both sides use heavy weapons.The major problem with the film is it is very unfocused, both in plot and who the main character is. Red State starts out as an interesting psychological horror about the men torturing other people because of what they are. Then it turns into a siege, based on the 1993 Waco Siege which was pure action rather then horror and it is a similar situation: heavily armed religious nuts who have children which makes any operation difficult. After that, a conspiracy theory develops as the ATF are prepared to kill everyone to cover up their own failures. As this goes on, one member of the church, Cheyenne (Kerry Bishé), tries to get the children out of the compound, knowing that the ATF is willing to kill them. All these stories could have been interesting but Smith was unable to juggle all these elements. Added to this mix, it felt very much that Smith did not know how to end the movie, feeling more like a rushed epilogue then a satisfying conclusion. A movie about bigoted nuts using religion to attack undesirables would have been a perfectly good and interesting movie.The film lacks a main character. It starts out with the three boys, then it turns to Keenan about a third of the way through the film. The editing is choppy, unable to stick to one set of events or a character. None of the characters are all that likable. It is tough for any director to make us care about unlikable characters, but at least Smith takes a decent stab at it.Smith attempts different styles throughout his movie, starting with a slow, gritty atmosphere featuring some gory levels of violence, to quick camera-work and cuts, and then to some stylish moments which were just out of place.Acting-wise, most of the cast does a good job. As mentioned, Parks is an effective horror villain and avoids being a stereotypical fire-and-brimstone type of preacher. Leo is a truly horrid character, a woman filled with hatred, bitterness and willingness to do anything for her ideology. John Goodman, as always, turns in a good performance. The younger members of the cast are solid, young people thrown into an unimaginable situation, but Bishé's performance felt forced.Overall, Red State is an okay work but it could have been so much more: an interesting psychological and sociological horror about how people are willing to manipulate religion for their own ends and why other people would follow this despicable ideology.
Adaptations of TV shows into film is nothing new, from Batman in the 60s, to Star Trek in the 70s and 80s and in more modern times like the Avengers, Charlie's Angels and Starkey and Hutch (programmes that were popular in the 60s and 70s), but to mixed results. The 80s hit show The A-Team has been giving the cinematic treatment, after years of development hell.Starring with a prologue sequence in Mexico about how Colonel John 'Hannibal' Smith (Liam Neeson) forms a team of US Rangers to become the A-Team, including intelligence officer Lt. Templeton 'Face' Peck (Bradley Cooper), hardman Sgt. Bosco 'B.A' Baracus (Quinton 'Rampage' Jackson) and insane pilot Captain H.M 'Howling Mad' Murdock (Sharlto Copley). 8 years later the team are in Iraq where they are assigned a mission to capture a billion counterfeit dollars and American mint plates from Saddam loyalists by a CIA officer 'Lynch' (Patrick Wilson). But when the mission goes wrong and the plates go missing The A-Team get the blame and sent to military prison. When they break out assign themselves the mission to recovery the plates to prove their innocence. But a hot shot military investigator and Face's ex-girlfriend Lt. Charisa Sosa (Jessica Biel) is on their tail.As stated The A-Team went through development hell with John Singleton (Boyz in the Hood and 2 Fast 2 Furious) set to direct, but left when he struggled to find a replacement for Mr. T as B.A.. Joe Carnahan ended up replacing him with Ridley Scott and Tony Scott as producers: it was a surprising considering he wrote and directed the flop Smokin' Aces. Carnahan, Brian Bloom and Fox's hack for Skip Wood wrote the script. Whilst Carnahan does have some real moments of style, such as will the subtitles and the way he directs the camera through say conversations and chases sequences. The plot as well is okay, nothing so silly that you end up laughing at the screen. But with a film like this plot is not the most important issue. What lets the film direction down is the action sequences; Carnahan used to many real tight closes and quick cuts of half a second, making you miss the action of a fist fight. Paul Greengrass has a lot to answer for what he has done to the action genre: why can't directors just have a wide shot for action sequences. It's even more disappointing because the best thing about Smokin' Aces was the action sequences. Plus the CGI was pretty weak. The scenes where Hannibal describes the plan and cut with the team carrying it was similar to Guy Ritchie's Sherlock Holmes with the flashbacks of when actions being done.It was always going to be an impossibility to replace Mr. T with his attitude and delivery of oneliners. It was hard to find an actor who could match that and Mr. T's muscular figure: in the end a Ultimate Fighting Champion took the role but Jackson is not a professional actor. Because of that his role was demoted because of that. Jackson was okay, there are worst actors but his can not match Mr. T charisma. Casting an established actor like Neeson as the leader of the group was a smart idea, despite the fact that he is not known for playing American characters (even in Taken where he plays an ex CIA spy he still had an Irish accent). He played the straight man of the group but the he seems to be having fun in the role; he does have moments of comedy. It is fun to see an older man kicking butt in a film. Cooper was okay but his comedy stick did get old and Biel seems miscast as army officer. Patrick Wilson was good as the villain of the film, giving us a sleazy performance similar to his role in Hard Candy (without being a paedophile) The best member of the cast was Copley, who was a surprising choice because he has only starred in one film, District 9. He allowed a lot of comic relief as the insane pilot. He was competent with his southern American actor and when he was allowed to used an Australian, English and his native South African accent.From me it's a 6 out of 10, but it's a high 6 out of 10.
Paranormal Activity is one of the surprise hits of 2009, and the highest grossing in history. From a $15,000 budget it has so far made over $100 Million. It is a simple horror film about demonic haunting, using a hand held camera style like in The Blair Witch Project and Cloverfield.The film is told retrocepticly, with the action taking place in 2006 in San Diego. It tells the story of Micah (Micah Sloat) and Katie (Katie Featherston), a young couple who had been together for 3 years. Katie had has some sort of demonic spirit ever since she was 8-years-old. Micah plans on filming the nightly events. Katie is desperate to get rid of the spirit and asks a psychic (Mark Fredrichs) to help. He suggests the being is a demon and advices to call a specialist, and tells Micah not to try and communicate with the being. Micah ignores the advice and sets out to do his own experiments and research. Things start off small, like the door moving in the middle of the night and strange sounds. But slowly things get worst, with Katie sleepwalking and the demon getting more annoyed. It affects Katie and Micah's relationship and it starts to break down.A lot of reviews suggests that this is meant to be one of the most scary films ever made. Sadly it isn't. There is no real threat, and for the most part the demon just seemed like a minor nuisance. They should have shown more of a threat, like the demon hurting Katie, or Katie turning to self-harm or harming Micah in her sleep. There could have shown things like a message being written in blood or as my brother suggests, showing the demon beliefly in the mirror. It's only the very last scene that is worth seeing and prevents me from giving this film a lower score. Many scenes and themes have been copied from other films: style wises it copies Blair Witch Product (awful) and Cloverfield (great), Signs (both ideas and scenes), The Ring, and films like The Exorcist and the Omen. A horror film can pain homage to other films, but its own ideas, themes and scares should stand on it's own film. Many of the scenes were too conventional and most of the scenes were more funny then scary. So was some of the interplay between Micah and Katie, but there relationship felt more natural and down to earth. They were pretty good actors. When I was in the cinema there was only one person who seemed scared during the film and audience actually laughed when she first screamed. For a fairly short feature film, it actually went very slowly. For the most part not much happens. What should have happened was the first 30 minutes should have been used to get to know the characters, and then slowly build up the tension and the threat in it's own internal universe.A problem filled film, but does have a decent last scene. But I know there is going to be a sequel.
In A Better World comes off the back of winning an Oscar for Best Foreign Language, but it is an award that the Academy has gotten wrong a number of times before. Luckily In A Better World is an interesting Euro-social drama that is a compelling watch with themes and ideas behind it.In A Better World focuses on two boys Elias (Markus Ryaard) and Christian (William Jøhnk Nielsen) and their families as the friends take a dark turn. Elias is a child who is bullied at school, with the school being ineffective at dealing with it and his parents marriage is going through some difficulties. Christian has just lost his mum to cancer and moves from London to live with his dad in Denmark and is willing to take action against bullies. As the two become friends the two see other people who are willing bully they way in live they decide to take action and suffer the consequences. At the same time Elias' dad Anton (Mikael Persbrandt) is a doctor in a Sudanese refugee camp where a evil warlord and his men use pregnant woman in their sick betting games. And Christian is still grieving over his mother and has a very distance relationship with his father (Ulrich Thomsen) who is pushed away at every turn.The director Susanne Bier is possibly best known for her films Things We Lost in the Fire and the original version of Brothers. Her latest film sets out to explore the themes of personal and social anger and the darker underbelly of a seemingly peaceful society. Many of the characters are corrupted by their anger and leads them to more extreme actions that would not have been thought possible. Aggression is around them in many form and the children want to take control over something in their lives. Bier keeps her direction down to Earth, showing the world as it is and events as they are. She avoids camera or editing tricks as event gradually evolving in a believable and compelling manner.In A Better World is filled with superb acting throughout, especially from Nielsen playing a nearly psychopathic kid who is willing to use violence. He is a character with a lot of a pain behind him, whilst Ryaard made out Elias was lead out of loyalty to friend who is simply a decent child thrown into an extreme world. The adult actor also provide natural, believable performances, Persbrandt making out his character has seen horrible impact of war and explains why he refuses to fight with a strong sense of morality and his wife Marianne (Trine Dyrholm) is simply a worried mother.In A Better World can be a grim film, but it is certainly food for thought.
Since Harry Potter has been a massive hit in both the publishing and the film world, studios and publishing companies have been looking for the next big fantasy hit. Fox believed that have found it, buying the rights to Rick Riordan's Percy Jackson series and getting the director of the first two Harry Potter to take it on.Starting in New York the Gods Zeus (Sean Bean) and Poseidon (Kevin McKidd) are about to go to war if Zeus' lightning bolt is not returned by the summer solstice. Zeus believes Poseidon's son Percy Jackson (Logan Lerrman) has stolen it, though Poseidon does not believe it. Percy himself is a sixteen-year-old New Yorker who is dyslexic and has ADHD. He lives with his mother, Sally (Catherine Keener) and his abusive and foul step dad Gabe Ugliano (Joe Pantoliano). But after Percy is attacked by his English teacher Mrs. Dodds (Maria Olsen) his teacher Mr. Brunner (Pierce Brosnan) and his best friend Grover (Brandon T. Glover) decide Percy needs to be taken to safety. But on the way Sally is captured by Hades (Steve Coogan). At Camp Half-blood, Percy discovers he is a demigod, Grover is a satyr (basically half-man half-goat) and Mr. Brunner is really a centaur called Chiron, trainer of heroes. Percy also develops a rivalry with the sexy Annabeth (Alexandra Daddario). Percy, Grover and Annabeth are forced onto a quest to save Percy's mum from Hades by gaining three of Persephone's pearls and prove Percy's innocents.There are a number of similarities to Harry Potter, and they are pretty obvious. The title is similar, having the character's name and the event or item in it, Percy is like Harry that he does not know he is a demigod and the group of friends are very much a like, Grover being the comic relief and Annabeth is the smart fighter who has an initial dislike to Percy. Percy also goes to camp (and it has a terrible name) to learn to be a heroes. Chris Colombus directs and because of his experience shots it very much like his Harry Potter films, similar action scenes, similar colour pallet and the same of sort of a light tone. The film is a crisp, fast paced adventure that will please all members of the family.Percy Jackson has a shorter running time to the Harry Potter films and I am sure that many elements of the book was cut, particularly at the beginning. The beginning felt rushed, skipping over characters like Mr. Brunner who I expect was given a more in-depth introduction in the book. Also fans of the book were annoyed that the young characters were made into teenagers and I personally think that Riordan had his own agenda by making out that Percy is dyslexic and has ADHD: I'm dyslexic and letters do not literally jump all over the place. I believe that the filmmakers could have shown more of Percy having ADHD as well.There is a good mix of Greek Mythology in the modern United States and we get famous characters like Medusa. Many big name and well respected actors pretty much make cameos for the film (obviously hoping to appeal in sequels). Actors like Bean and McKidd do a good job and Coogan can rise the bar with anything he does. I particularly liked his argumental relationship Persephone (Rosario Dawson) and the two should have a comedy spin-off. Whilst Lerman is a decent young actor his support is poor. Glover is basically in the film to be the stereotypical African-American comic relief and lusts over any beautiful women and Daddario really can not act. She has a nice body but that's about it. Also a pet peeve I have is when films and TV shows get actors in the their mid twenties to play teenagers, and both Glover and Daddario are much older then the characters they played. Daddario particularly looked like she was 20, not 16. At least Lerman was only 18.Some of the CGI was a little ropey but there was pretty of good action sequences, particularly with the five-headed dragon.Overall Percy Jackson is a fun film, nothing special but it also deserves higher then a 5.8/10.
With the surprise success of Iron Man in 2008 a sequel was bound to be made, with Marvel aiming to make the ultimate superhero film, The Avenges. Whilst a sequel was always a risk of never matching the quality of the original, but most superhero films then to buck the trend with the first sequel.Six months after the events of the first film Tony Stark (Robert Downey Jr.) has become even more of a star because of his success as Iron Man. He made Stark Industries into a more ethical company and appoints his assistant Pepper Potts (Gwyneth Paltrow) as his new CEO. But there is trouble on the horizon: the US Senate demand that Tony hands over his Iron Man suit, the palladium that in the arc reactor that keeps him alive is also poisoning his blood, killing him slowly. There is also a deadly threat from Ivan Vanko (Mickey Rourke), a Russian physicist who develops his own reactor and powerful suit so he can gain revenge against the Stark family. Vanko gets recruited by Tony's main rival Justin Hammer (Sam Rockwell) to make an army of suits so they can take down Iron Man. With Tony slowly dying his behaviour becomes more erratic and he slowly drives his friends away, with his best friend Lt. Colonel James Rhodes (Don Cheadle) to steal one his suits, allowing War Machine to be born.Iron Man 2 has many good and bad elements, mostly good. Jon Favreau continues in the director's chair and adds to his cast of talented actors. Of course Downey and Paltrow were great together and had excellent chemistry. It was a shame that Terrence Howard left as Rhodey but the filmmakers found a great replacement with Cheadle, an excellent actor with a role that increases in this film. Rourke and Rockwell both made great villains, particularly Rourke as the intelligence and powerful Vanko. It was a shame he did not have more screen time as he was a great as the bad guy and shows he was not just a one dimensional character. Samuel L. Jackson and Scarlett Johansson were also good additions (yes I know Jackson was in the end-credits scenes in Iron Man). But they screen time was limited. Favreau improves as an action director with better actions scenes like in Monaco and the special effects were brilliant like in the last film. But the end fight scene could have been a little more epic. Favreau makes the tone of Iron Man 2 a little more serious then Iron Man was (which was not bad at all), but he keeps a strong scene of fun in the film and there is a lot of humour throughout. He knows how to deliver a blockbuster. Plus there are plenty of hints toward the upcoming Avengers film, which is great to see for all the comic-book geek within all of us.But Iron Man 2 is not as strong as Iron Man. The screenplay by Justin Theroux is sadly a little too unfocused and had too many subplots. Some elements do not fit as well in the film and makes it a little too long and some felt forced like Rhodey's falling out with Tony. It also suffers from having too villains, confusing the audience on who they should focus on. What made Iron Man was because it had a simple story. But this is minor and the screenplay is solid for the most part.A very enjoyable start to 2010's summer season.
George A. Romero is a master of horror direction and the Living Dead Series is properly the best horror series going, made with love, intelligence and commitment, not cheap cash-ins. The Night of the Living Dead was a horror cult-classic, made for peanuts. With Dawn of the Dead, made 10 years after the original has a bigger budget and a wider scope to the first film.The Zombie apocalypse is in full swing and society is about to break down. TV stations are going off-air and the emergency network is going into play. The American Government has drafted in the army and SWAT teams, as well as local auxiliary forces, but zombies are starting dominate the cities and rural areas. Scientists tell civilians to stop zombies then need to destroy the brain or cut off the head, which is met with shock. The main forces of the film are on four characters, Francine (Gaylen Ross) and her boyfriend Stephen (David Emge), two television station employees and SWAT members Roger (Scott H. Reiniger) and Peter (Ken Foree). Francine is a station manager who tries to report the confusing events and sets out to flee Philadelphia. Roger and Peter are in the more unsavoury areas of the city, trying to enforce martial law and meet violence resistance. After all four see the shocking events the four meet up and flee the city. They hide out in a out-of-town shopping mall to avoid the Zombies.What makes George A. Romero and the Living Dead series a cut above the rest is Romero's social and political messages. In Night of the Living Dead it had a clear message about the Civil Rights Movement and was revolutionary for the time because it had a black man as the hero. Dawn of the Dead's message is about consumerism, a dark joke about people mindlessly going to the shopping malls. They are also themes about the government reaction, the collapse of society, racism in the police and social commentary about people unwilling to kill their relatives. Dawn of the Dead is brutally violence, which is the norm in most horror films and highly intelligence compared to other films in the genre. It may not be as scary as it use to be, but it is still a hell of a watch. Romero has a wonderful use of music and sound to add to the atmosphere of the film.Romero sets out to give you characters you can care about compared to modern horror where you just want everyone to die.An aspect I really liked about the film is the post-apocalyptical world that is set up, the break down of society and the slow decline of the media for information.Some of the acting isn't great, but Dawn of the Dead wasn't aiming to win Oscars and the make-up and special effects and make-up is nothing compared to today, but what do you expect from a low-budget 70s film.Dawn of the Dead is essential watching for horror fans.
Phase One of the Marvel Universe Cinematic was a massive success for Marvel Studios, leading to a Billion Dollar film, The Avengers. Now Marvel has a new test for Phase Two, starting with Iron Man 3, with new blood being brought in the form writer/director Shane Black, who manages to import his comedy style to the comic book genre.It has been months since the Chitauri invasion of New York and Tony Stark (Robert Downing Jr.) is haunted by the experience, having nightmares, panic attacks and staying up all night tinkering with his inventions. The result is he makes a suit that he can control with his mind. As this is going on, America is suffering from a new wave of attacks from a terrorist known as The Mandarin (Sir Ben Kingsley), using explosives that seemingly have no traceable parts, forcing the American government to rebrand War Machine to The Iron Patriot. Even worst Stark past comes back to haunt him as a man he stubbed in 1999, Aldrich Killian (Guy Pearce) creates a revolutionary bio-tech technology that could be the next leap for humanity, healing people with ease. But a side effect is it turns people into living weapons. When The Mandarin forces attack Stark's home, Stark is only left with one damaged prototype suit with little power and he has to use all his knowledge and skill to find out what The Mandarin and Killian are up as they attack Stark's loved ones as well as face up to his past.Iron Man 3 does feel very much like a Shane Black film, having his trademark style of dialogue and humour and uses a Christmas setting. It is to the point that Iron Man 3 becomes more a Black film then a Marvel film and a little bit like the Batman Returns of Marvel film with its focus on Stark and his resourcefulness and the villains and less about Stark in his suits. Stark does keep his trademark wit and intelligence and Downey does make the role his own, like he's done in the previous films. But the other characters also get a fair share of the comedy.Iron Man 3 is Black's second film as director and he shows a great confidence behind the camera. He keeps the Marvel look and style, while still managing to make a film that is completely his own film and proves he can handle the special effects and action set pieces. Some of the fist fights and close quarter action were edited a too quickly, but that is made up for by the variety of action, particularly the final battle with the multiple Iron Man suits. Iron Man has very different threat to what he has had in the past, biologically altered super-heated people which have strength and the ability to melt metal: it is certainly different to men in iron suits and there are more menacing because of it. It also serves as a way to expand the type of sci-fi the Iron Man series can explore. Gwyneth Paltrow's Pepper Potts also has a few moments where she gets to be a badass. On the action front, Iron Man 3 is the best in the series so far.The trailers for Iron Man 3 made it out to be a very serious, darker affair, to the point that I personally nicknamed it "The Iron Man Rises". But it was a bait and switch and Iron Man 3 is a very humorous film throughout, having plenty of witty lines and well timed visual jokes. Black does a fine job at balancing out the comedy with the darker and serious scenes and elements, skills that Black developed since his early writing days, which makes for a fun blockbuster experience.The biggest controversy that Iron Man 3 has to offer is the portrayal of Iron Man's arch nemesis The Mandarin. Of course he was not going to be the "Fu Manchu" stereotype that he was in the comics and international politics (as well as film markets) have changed, so changes had to be made: but Black's does take it to extremes as he puts his own spin on the character. Some may call it a clever postmodern twist, subverting conventions about villains and their portrayal in Hollywood film, others will call it a betrayal of one of Marvels most famous villains.Because of the change in world politics since Iron Man was first created and the theme about the War of Terror was used in the first film Iron Man. The War of Terror theme has been brought back, The Mandarin acting like an Osama bin Laden like figure but Black and Marvel look at the hypocrisy of terrorist leaders who hides behind their 'ideals' whilst living in comfort and how they would use anything to try to morally justify their actions.Iron Man 3 is a fine additional the Marvel Cinematic Universe and a solid follow up The Avengers. It is stronger then the previous entry in the Iron Man series which was too reliant on comedy and very character heavy. Shane Black does bring a fresh approach for the series and once again, Marvel Studios has begun the Summer blockbuster for 2013 on the right track.Please visit www.entertainmentfuse.com
Opening with a rusty looking version of the Warner Bros. logo, an ominous warning, Harry and Ron look to the distance with worry and Hermione erases her parents memories of her. It is clear that we are getting a very different type of Harry Potter. Director David Yates sets out to show a gloomy, bleak world where war and repression are about to inflict the Wizard world.Picking up where "The Half-Blood Prince" left off, Dumbledore has been murdered and there is no one left to stop Voldermort. The new Minister of Magic, Rufus Scrimgeour (Bill Nighy), states the gravity of the situation. Harry was given a mission by Dumbledore to find Voldermort's remaining Horcruxes (pieces of his soul), but has no idea what they are hiding in, how to find them and how to destroy them. When Voldermort launches a successful coup against the Ministry of Magic, Harry, Ron and Hermione have to go on the run when they are declared public enemies.Yates had already shown that he could make a dark "Harry Potter" film when he made "Order of the Phoenix," but with "The Deathly Hallows" he takes it to another level. Like with "Order of the Phoenix" and "The Half-Blood Prince," he was able to change his style of direction yet again. The repression of the new Ministry of Magic was brought to life, looking and feeling very much like the Ministry of Truth in 1984, with a little bit of Brazil for good measure. There are wonderful little details to windowless environment, the costumes of the wizard enforcers and the 1940s-style propaganda posters. The animated short of "The Tale of the Three Brothers" (whose director was given free reign by Yates) was very Tim Burton like: so dark, visually stunning and flowing beautifully with the rest of the film.Yates delivers on the action front yet again, excellent chases from when the Death Eaters chase the Order of the Phoenix in the skies above London and seeing that real people get hurt, the chase in the Ministry and the scenes in the woods. Helena Bonham Carter was finally allowed to let loose and Bellatrix Lestrange is turned into a truly scary character -- we get to see some of the horrors she is able to inflict.Because of the dark, slow and sombre direction at times there are some effective horror moments and there is a permanent sense of tension and terror. Yates slows the film down long enough to unveil the mystery and quest and show how the characters we know handle their mission. The House Elf Kreacher (Simon McBurney) was made into a nastier little creature with bitterness in his voice who had been taught a hateful ideology. A great of example of all this bleakness is that John Williams' soft signature tune is no longer used in the film.Senses that were only mentioned in the book are actually shown in the film, following the old screen writing maxim "show don't tell" and having much more of an impact for the audience. Yates and Steve Kloves attempt to show the wider picture of the conflict and the ideology of the wizardening world, showing the Death Eaters as being akin to Nazis and Stalinists. But it is not all doom and gloom and there is still plenty of humour and lighter moments, most of it being visual and some funny lines via Dobby and various Weasleys This time round the main three actors have to stand alone with little support from the adults. Daniel Radcliffe, Emma Watson and Rupert Grint have all grown as actors over the years. All three give fine performances, Watson giving her strongest performance in the series and Grint showing more range then just as the comical sidekick. Radcliffe has already proved himself the best actor of the trio and his performance was natural as in the previous films. There is a large number of cameos in the film from actors who have been in the previous films and its great to see the previous film referenced like this. Imelda Staunton returns, being deliciously evil and sickly-sweet as Dolores Umbridge, and Rhys Ifans gives a surprisingly understated performances as Xenophilius Lovegood."The Deathly Hallows Part 1" is one of the strongest entries in the Harry Potter series but there are some faults preventing it from topping the list. When the main three characters are on the road, it is sometimes too slow and some scenes could have been cut or shortened: the film itself is about 10 to 15 minutes too long. Also a problem from the book is that the Horcrux is pretty much lifted from The Lord of the Rings, acting as a corrupt force on anyone who touches it. But all this is minor as the film will satisfy and delight fans of both the books and the films.I personally really looking forward to the concluding part to the series with what should be an epic finale.
Frost/Nixon is clearly a film that was designed to get awards and recognition for its actors and writer Peter Morgan.Frost/Nixon is based on the stage play written by Peter Morgan, which was about the British TV interviewer David Frost (Michael Sheen) who interviews degraded ex-American President Richard Nixon (Frank Langella). Frost in the mid 70s was a successful talk show host in Britain and Australia, but was famous for interviewing celebrities and light entertainment segments. When Nixon resigns Frost has the brainwave of having a series of interviews with the ex-President. To do this Frost had to offer an unprecedented amount of money, $600,000. Richard Nixon sees this as an opportunity to rebuild his reputation and at the same time get interviewed what he sees as a lightweight. Frost struggles to sell the idea to the American networks because of the cost and he was fairly unknown to the American audience. He has to risk his own reputation and money to make such the project could be done. As well Frost hired two researchers, Bob Zelnick (Oliver Platt) and James Reston Jr. (Sam Rockwell). Reston has a big chip on his shoulder, disliking Nixon because of his abuse of power and role during the Vietnam War, and he wanted Frost to be as touch as possible against Nixon. When the interviews start Nixon was able to run rings around Frost, using his friendship to play mind games and Frost's inexperience with interviewing major political figures, but slowly gains his strength and starts to challenge Nixon.As I have started it is an actor's film. Michael Sheen is an excellent British actor, famous for playing Tony Blair twice and is likely to more weighty projects. Frank Langella also offered the best performance of Richard Nixon since Anthony Hopkins. Both men starred in the stage play and so were were obvious choices for the film, and I personally think both men are likely to get nominated for Oscar. Unfortunately I doubt whoever gets nominated for best Supporting Actors (most likely Langella), they won't get the awards because of the pressure for Heath Leadger to get the award. Other supporting actors in the film also offered excellent performers. I personal hope Matthew Macfadyen has a good career ahead of him and I hope he becomes James Bond after Daniel Craig's run. Rockwell and Platt were also passionate during their performances. The writing was sharp and at times witty. It is deep with the ideas of politics, power, the media and the seventies, and I favour Peter Morgan is a strong contender for the Oscar best Adapted Screenplay. The film does show Nixon in a negative light at first, making him out to have a sense of grandeur about himself and belief that he was in the right. He was also greedy, wanting money and wanting to security his legacy. But at the end Nixon is shown to be human and that he does have a friendship with David Frost. However I did not like the documentary talking head style that was used, feeling it was a little lazy and the film does take a little artistic license. Ron Howard got the character of the seventies right, offered a balance film and was a good hand behind the camera. I would like to see more films like this from him, but I doubt he would get an Oscar nod this time round. As well this film is also likely to get an Oscar nomination for Best Film, but this awards season has offered some strong films. Hopefully Frost/Nixon should win one or two awards.A strong recommendation from me.
Woody Allen is easily considered a great director, with films like Annie Hall and Manhattan being recognised as classics. But in his more recent efforts critics believed Allen has lost his mojo and his recent films have been set in London rather then his native New York. But critics consider Vicky Cristina Barcelona a return to form for the writer/director.Vicky (Rebecca Hall) and Cristina (Scarlett Johansson) are two friends from university who plan to spend the summer in Barcelona. Both are very different people, Vicky was a very grounded academic type who wants stability and a committed relationship, whilst Cristina sees herself as a artistic type, who wants to take risks when it comes to romance. Both meet up with the charming artist Juan Antonio (Javier Bardem) who takes them to the city Oviedo. Vicky does not like Juan Antonio whilst Cristina was very attached to him, but the three form a friendship as the 3 deal with relationship problems. Vicky being stuck with a stuffy, conservative man, Doug (Chris Messina) who seems to have no real adventure, Cristina has to do handle her drive to be artistic and self-destructive nature and Juan Antonio has a psychotic ex-wife, María Elena (Penélope Cruz).Allen does write a script with drama and witty dialogue. The tone is down to Earth, with a light-hearted touch to it and colourful direction. The characters are well rounded, all with their own personal problems, even the well rounded Vicky. The characters are what makes the film interesting and makes you care about what happens to them. There is a good cast in the film, with Cruz and Bardem being the best of the lot. Both are very entertaining as the more extreme characters of the film. Hall and Johannson too perform well, this was one of Johannson's better performances. Allen himself is able to combine the ideas of people looking for exciting and creativity, whilst others want security. There are drawbacks to both of those and it is shown in the film.Allen uses a narrator throughout the film, at times it gives the film a Kubrickian like quality in films like The Killing. But at other times in the narration is just used to skip over details that we need to see for ourselves, particularly the relationship between Juan Antonio and Cristina.At times the film also felt hollow with it's talk about art and culture, with Cristina being pretty much a young female version of Allen. Whilst the characters themselves are interesting and the act as the main drive for the film, the plot itself is not remarkable, with moments of lack of focus. Ihe ending too felt rushed and was basically lacking some power that it should have. This's is what is preventing the film from gaining a higher rating but it does have moments of interest.
The Black Death is a very interesting aspect of history, a plague that killed a third of Europe's population, had a massive social impact during and after the event (e.g. the Peasant's Revolt), an economic impact leading to people becoming wealthy and owning more land and lead to a change in art afterwards. So it is a surprise that this subject has not been look at more often in film and literature. Director Christopher Smith has taken on the challenge.In 1348 the Black Death is at it's high in England. With people dying all around, a young monk, Osmond (Eddie Redmayne) tells his secret lover, Averill (Kimberley Nixon) to hide in the forest where she said she would wait for one week. At the same time a knight, Ulric (Sean Bean looking like he has just walk in from the set of Lord of the Rings), tells the monastery of a village that has avoided the pestilence by turning their back on God and bringing the dead back to live. Osmond volunteers to be the knights guild, working for his own selfish reasons. As they travel through the infested lands of England and seeing the impact of the plague on society, the group of men end up in a weirdly blissful village led by Langiva (Carice van Houten).Early on in Black Death the film is interesting at seeing how the Black Death affected people, from the rise of the Flagellants, a group of Christian extremists who believed that they need to show their love for God to avoid the by self-harming and hoped God would forgive them. There was the massive impact of death in the countryside and that the wilds of Medieval Europe was like the Wild West, where bandits lived in the woods. Smith was not afraid to show that Medieval battles, even on a small scale were very bloody and men being ruthless. It was a scene that looked like the filmmakers enjoyed making. I did also enjoy the more natural elements of horror, from the eerie, near paradise like world the village seemed. Black Death also has a twisted ending.The costumes themselves do not look that believable, with Bean looking like Boromir from Lord of the Rings and the weapons look like there are from a cartoon or a pantomime film. This is not the most realistic depiction of the Medieval era. Also after a very fast start in the first 30 minutes, the quest elements grinds to a halt when they go to the village. The film does not have the strongest narrative ever and it is a basically a B-Movie.The acting is fine and there is a constant theme about faith, about how people were willing to break and use it: whether it was Osmond who had a forbidden affair or Langiva who uses miracles or the church willingness to torture people. Bean is normally good in any thing he is in and offer gravitas to the film. Ms. Van Houten is a strong actress who does pull off a good English accent. Tim McInnerny is subtle and sinister as a character called Hob who on the surface is softly spoken and a seemingly nice guy, but harbours a dark, ruthless edge. Even more remarkable because he is known for being a comic actor. Redmayne was okay as the lead but did have a good relationship with John Lynch who was a interesting enough character as Ulric's number two.On a final note, there were many critics in Britain who fell in love with this film and gave it four star reviews. Personally I don't know what they were smoking but at most Black Death is a 3 out of 5; there were good moments, but overall it is not a great film and properly will not be remembered that much.5.5/10
The Stephen Hawking bio-pic The Theory of Everything is one of the leading contenders in 2015's awards season, with Eddie Redmayne being deserving of the praise he has been receiving as the famous physicist. Based on Jane Wilde Hawking's autobiography The Theory of Everything looks at relationship between Stephen and Jane (Felicity Jones) as they fall in love and deal with Professor Hawking's motor neuron disease, looking at the physical decline and the struggles Jane has to go through caring for him and the family. Those wanting or expecting a look at Professor Hawking's scientific work will be disappointed as it is only glanced at: if you want the film about Hawking's science then I recommend watching the excellent BBC TV film Hawking starring Benedict Cumberbatch.Redmayne is transformative in his role as Stephen Hawking, being brilliant at showing Hawking's disability taking over, from small things like struggling to run to being unable to speak. He had excellent chemistry with his co-star. Jones as Jane does have a sizeable role, having to help with husband academically and physically and develops a relationship Jonathan Jones (Charlie Cox).James Marsh's direction is solid making sure their decent pace and provides some interesting visuals thanks to Benoît Delhomme's old- fashioned cinematography. But Anthony McCarten's screenplay has a very episodic quality, looking at small moments of Hawking's life, such as Hawking's university days before his diagnosis, dealing with his diagnosis, early scientific breakthroughs, etc.... The scientific revelations shown to be eureka moments.The film is very reminiscence of A Beautiful Mind, looking at the personal life and struggle of a scientific/mathematics genius, having a look at his relationship and how they have to deal with adversity.7.5/10
The film Taken was a surprise hit. From a budget of $25 million this film made $145 million in the American box-office, and $221 million worldwide. It made Pierre Morel's career as a director and some people on IMDb have touted him as a potential Bond director and shows at the tender age of 56 that Liam Neeson can be an action star. But is this film any good? In my opinion, sadly not.Liam Neeson plays Bryan Mills, a retired CIA agent whom career led to the break up of his marriage and missing important time with his daughter Kim (Maggie Grace). Bryan stay in contact with some of his CIA buddies and even does some bodyguard work, including saving a young singer played by Holly Valance. Kim has just turned 17 and wants to be a singer. Her friend invites her to go to Paris for the summer and follow U2 on their first European tour (what 17-year-old girl listens to U2?). Bryan warns her, saying that Paris is a dangerous place to go, but lets her. After being in Paris for a few hours Kim and her friend are kidnapped, as happens to every teenage girl who goes to Paris, and Bryan has to use his skills to go use to find his daughter. He has 96 hours before Kim would be addicted to drugs and never be found.The good points of the film are there are some good action sequence, especially with its budget, Maggie Grace isn't bad playing a teenager and its good to see Liam Neeson in a leading role (even if he has a weird accent). That's it! The plot is simple; I have nothing against simple plots, but there is a fine line from simple and enjoyable to completely stupid. Sex Trafficking and the sex trade are complex subjects and are terribly mishandled in this film. If it wasn't for the fact that film was directed by a Frenchmen, and written and produced by Luc Besson, then it could have easily been made by American neo-cons. As I said, within hours the girls are kidnapped and that Paris is a city unsafe for Americans. Paris is no different to any other city in the world. All non-Americans are stereotypes, the French are corrupt and there is a very simple black and white morality in this world, even if the large amount of torture used. It is a very one-dimensional world, from the set-up to the characterisation. This is a film for xenophobic Americans.The film also plays like an extended episode of the show 24. Bryan Mills is basically Jack Bauer who is in a race against time. He uses torture to great affect and doesn't seem bothered by the consequences. But at least in this film, Bryan is doing it to find his daughter, not on behalf of the American government. The action of the film is also much like the action in 24, with elements of Paul Greengrass' Bourne films; over-edited and a lot of shaky cam (I don't like that). An element I liked was that Bryan was an older action hero, but seems too good, finding things with ease and getting out of situations without many problems.This film isn't that good. I expect better from Luc Besson; he is the man who gave us Leon and the Fifth Element.
In recent times films set in the Victorian Era have become more popular, examples being Sweeney Todd: the Demon Barber of Fleet Street and The Prestige. Sherlock Holmes has been big property over the years, from novels and short stories, to film and TV programmes. Even when Sherlock Holmes was in it's cinematic hiatus, there was still TV movies and programmes, and Holmes has always been in the public consciousness. Warner Brothers has had great success with franchises like Harry Potter and Batman, and obviously want to continue with more established material. It has also become more popular to reboot franchise because of the success of Batman and James Bond.In Victorian London Sherlock Holmes (Robert Downey Jr) and Dr. John Watson (Jude Law) prevent the murder of a young woman by Lord Blackwood (Mark Strong), a Occultist responsible for four other murders. He is sentenced to be death. In the midst of all this Watson has found love with Mary (Kelly Reilly), and plans to move out, much to Holmes' distress. They take a hiatus in crime solving, with Holmes continuing with their experiments. But the pair are thrown back into the case when Lord Blackwood seems to have risen from the grave. This becomes a threat to Watson's reputation who declared the man dead, and could lead to a revolt by Blackwood's followers. Holmes is also brought back into contact with Irene Adler (Rachel McAdams), an American theft, who he loves, and the only person to best him. She ask for his help, to find a man, a scientist. Holmes quickly finds out that this is linked to Blackwood and his people. He is thrown in even deeper when a secret society, whom leaders include the Home Secretary, the American Ambassador and a senior Judge. They want to stop Blackwood, who plays to murder to make himself more powerful.The aim of the reboot is to try and bring Sherlock Holmes to a younger audience. They want to take away all Holmes clichés like the Deerstalker Hat and Watson as a bumbling fool. Holmes becomes a man who gets very involved in action, and shows he is an inventor. It is meant to be closer to the books by Arthur Coyle Doyle: I don't know if it's true because I haven't read them. This version of Sherlock Holmes was made as an action/comedy, namely a buddy comedy. They are some decent action scenes, but some were over edited. There was also some psychical comedy, but the best comedy came from the buddy relationship between the two lead characters. Holmes and Watson are basically an old married couple, bickering throughout, but do respect each other and need each other. There are chalk and cheese, both be very different. The dialogue was key and I'm sure Robert Downey Jr. and Guy Ritchie had a hand in it.The best member of the cast was Jude Law, which is surprising. Watson is made into a straight, tough war veteran, who shows to be intelligent and has skills as a detective. He is a loyal friend to Holmes despite everything he has done. Downey is decent, and he obviously play the character against type. He gives the character a comic edge but shows that he is able to think ahead and sees clues that no ones else does. Mark Strong is a top actor, who has worked with Ritchie before; and makes an excellent villain. However he isn't given enough screen time. Rachel McAdams in 2009 has become a big star, staring in State of Play, The Time Travelling Wife and of course Sherlock Holmes. She is obviously an attractive woman and has a future ahead of her, but I thought her performance was lacking.After the success of Lock, Stock and Snatch Guy Ritchie career was seeming to heading for great things, but ends up torching himself when marrying Madonna, and making two massive floats. Divorcing Madonna was the wisest thing he did, having a partial return to form with Rocknrolla, and now he has finally done his first blockbuster. He injects energy into the action scenes, adds wit, and because of the setting there is no mockery gangsterism. He brings in his own style, I thought the slow motion bits surprisingly worked, and the flashbacks and showing of clues reminded me of his previous films.The problem with the film is the script. One of the writers was Simon Kinberg, who is one of the worst writers in Hollywood, having written XXX 2, X-Men 3 and Jumper and acted as a script doctor to Charlie Angels 2 and Fantastic Four (hardly a good CV). His aim is focus on action and not on plot. At least he was working on a screenplay already written by others first. This was written as a action film, when it should have been written as a detective film with action in it. The focus should have been the case. The plot itself isn't anything inspired and more thought should have been used to make it a tighter story. It was just a series of events leading to action sequences. The revelation at the end which is meant to lead to the sequel also felt a bit too forced. Hopefully the sequel will have better writers. The film also felt longer then 2 hours and dragged in places, especially in the beginning. Never a good sign.Overall, fairly enjoyable. I give it a 7.3 overall. I liked the dog in the film as well.
Hasbro has had massive success as a toy company, so much so that they were able to expand into other media such as TV and film. Their biggest success is the Michael Bay's lead Transformers series. But know they have faced their biggest challenge, adapting the board game Battleship, something with no story into a film.In 2005 NASA discover an planet that could possibly inhabit intelligence life and send them a message. At the same time Alex Hopper (Taylor Kitsch) is a 26 year old layabout whose brother, Stone (Alexander Skargard) pressuring him to get a job or join the Navy. When trying to impress a woman, Sam (Brooklyn Dekker) he ends up tasered by the police and Stone makes Alex join the US Navy. Fast forward to the present day, Stone is the Commander of a destroyer and Alex is a lieutenant, but is arrogant, reckless and a troublemaker, and he wants to marry Sam, who is Admiral Shane's (Liam Neeson) daughter. During the RIMPAC wargames Alex clashes with Captain Nagata (Tadanobu Asano) of the Japanese Navy and he threaten with being discharged. But all that is put aside when aliens invade Earth, putting a force field around Hawaii and Alex is the only person to lead the world's effort to stop the aliens.Battleship was never going to be an intelligential exercise, but this film was more stupid then you can imagine. If it was made as a parody it could have been the comedy of the year: but it was of semi-serious affair. But it is hard to treat a film seriously that is based on a board game, especially the last 30 minutes which need to be seen to believed. The special effects were not that special: they looked they are from a computer game. Say what you will about the Transformers series but at least the Transformers looked like that interacted with their environment and well looked real. It was just too fake and whilst there is some nice little details it looked more like a cut scene in a game. We expect better from a film costing $200 Million.Battleship follows the usual military and alien cliques we have seen time and again in blockbusters. Alex is the typical archetype we have seen, some one who is reckless and arrogant who in the end learns responsibly, humility and working with someone he was hostile to. We have seen these military maverick tales before. Added to that the alien contact sections were like Independence Day and some of bit when the Navy first come across like the Ronald Emmerich film. It was clear that Hasbro and Peter Berg were trying to copy Michael Bay's style from the way the action scenes were shot, the government meetings being like scenes in The Rock and Armageddon, the destruction of Hong Kong seeming similar to Armageddon and Transformers: Dark of the Moon, the sunlit military scenes and use of zooms towards and away from the Navy. The early destruction of Hawaii was like the destruction of the L.A. freeway in 2012. Even the score sounded like a Michael Bay score, even using horns like in Transformers: Dark of the Moon, but it is Steve Jablonsky who provided the score, the man who scored the Transformers films.The characters were one dimenisonal, there was just nothing to them. They is no back story or anything, they are just there. The most fun we have is in the beginning when Alex tries to impress Sam by breaking into a petrol station to get a chicken burrito, it was actually funny, using security camera footage to show this. He has a rivalry with Nagata for no real reason, they disliked each other. Kitsch was rather bland and actors like Skargard and Neeson took their roles for the paycheque, but Dekker was the worst performer, offering nothing but a blank expression, emotionless delivery and just wanting to shout at the screen "emote damn it!" Rihanna was okay in her acting debut, but she really had nothing to work with and she was the best out of the sailors because most of the others were just annoying.The aliens themselves were lifted from Halo, they wore the same armour and helmet and the design of the aliens looked uninventive, a humanoid creature with a starfish like chin. We do not really know the aliens or even their motives. If it was pure conquest wouldn't they just blow up everything or everyone or at least send a large invasion force to take over the planet. But they only send a small force and act almost like predators, they only attack if they are attacked, seeing threats like a computer, turning red if they are about to attack, leaving people who are innocent like children. They are just there to give the filmmakers an easy foe to fight because they are too creatively bankrupt to think to fight or scared of upsetting foreign markets (i.e. China, India and Russia).Berg must have known he was on to a loser when he signed up to Battleship and there are some moment that felt like it was trying to parody Bay and other sci-fi actioneers, such as the use of slow motion, big explosions, using massive weapons, the Skype call to all the government agencies and having to shoe horn references to the game it is based on. But Berg is better then this, he is a much better action director and I hope by making Battleship he can make a film he actually wants to.Battleship is just an example of by the numbers filmmaking, a blockbuster that has no imagination or thought and relies on audiences being easily pleased. This a film that is not worth seeing, even if you are morbidly curious like I was. It really should have been a parody film. Still Battleship is better then Battle: Los Angeles.
Kingdom of Heaven is the first film that shows Tom Rothman destructive reign over Fox's Movie division. He is a man who wants to dumb down and shorten films, focusing on action and making films PG-13, and having barely any story. Rothman who forced Bryan Singer away from the X-Men series, annoyed Matthew Vaughn when directing X-Men: the Last Stand, screwed over Gavin Hood with Wolverine, messed up Babylon A.D. to the point that it's direct said audiences should avoid, made Hit-man PG-13 and reshot it with a different director and made Live Free and Die Hard PG-13. He has screwed over good and up-and-coming directors. He even messed around with a legend like Ridley Scott, making Kingdom of Heaven from having a lot of substance to a dumb action flick. Luckily Ridley Scott had a backup plan: he is the man who invented the director's cut, so he released a 3 hour long version of Kingdom of Heaven.In 1184 the Christian Kingdom of Jerusalem is surrounded by the hostile forces of Saladin (Ghassan Massoud). The kingdoms are living an uneasy truce, the Christian, King Baldwin IV (Edward Norton), wants peace between the Christians and Muslims. But there are forces within Baldwin's camp who wants to go to war with the Muslims. Even amongst the threat of war, a lot of Christians go to protect the kingdom and find forgiven. One man is Balain (Orlando Bloom), a French blacksmith and the bastard son of a lord, Godfrey of Ibelin (Liam Neeson). Balain's wife had recently killed herself and he ends up killing a Catholic priest. Balain's father offers him the chance of redemption, if he goes to Jerusalem. On the way, Godfrey dies, and Balain become the lord of his lands in the Holy land. He quickly shows himself to be a good lord, and he allies himself Baldwin IV and the marshal of Jerusalem, Raymond (Jeremy Irons). They are the modest who want peace. But the leader of the Knight Templars, and Baldwin's brother in law, Guy of Lusignan (Marton Csokas) is itching for a fight with the Muslims. In the the complex religious and political climate, Balain show his skills as a fighter and a leader, but also he develops feeling for Princess Sibylla (Eva Green), Guy's wife and the mother to the heir of the throne.The Crusades is a complex period of history, with Christian forces going to Holy Land a number of times. It is a period the Muslims dread, seeing it as a time when Barbarian hoards tried to take their lands. It was motivated by religion, land and money, the Muslims offered a handy scapegoat for the Catholic Church. This film is a bold, if little inaccuracy attempt to show this in an entertaining manner. When this film was made they were people proclaiming that this was going to be an Islamophobic film, which would drive up conflict. In my opinion the Muslim were treated in a balanced way, the film shows heroes and villains on both sides of the conflict, the main antagonist was a Christian who wanted to go to war. It's better to say the crap-fest Braveheart which made out that all Scots were good whilst the English did everything possible to be Evil.Ridley Scott is a master of his craft: he is a director who can take you to another world. Look at his previous films. He does take you back to the middle ages in the middle of a complex conflict. He shows the characters, and brings in realistic violence. But there is an old fashion style to the film, similar to what David Lean did with Lawrence of Arabia. Scott handles the drama and action with great skill. Scott also worked with closely with William Monahan who himself is a man of talent. The Art-Direction, Costume Design and Cinematography were also of a high level, all worthy of Oscar nods.There is a good cast for the film, even with smaller roles; Michael Sheen, Liam Neeson, Jeremy Irons, Edward Norton, Marton Csokas, Jeremy Irons, David Thewlis and the lovely Eva Green. What do you want? Well maybe a better lead. This is Orlando Bloom's best role outside the Lord of the Rings films, but he still seemed a bit to wet and weak for this time type of role. It needed a bigger action.Whilst the film is good, I do have to mark it down for historical inaccuracies. One good example that affects the realism is how can a blacksmith be able to be good knight and command with no training? Also I doubt an illegitimate child could inherited someone lands. The other main issues was that Christian, Muslims and Jews all hated each other, they did not make a good of living together like the film makes out.If you are going to watch this film: watch the Director Cut. It deeper and more detailed that the theatrical cut was.
District 9 was a surprise hit in the American box-office, and it is a excellent example that people are willing to pay for quality. Here is a sci-fi film with a modest budget from South Africa, with only a big name producer and an excellent vile market campaign.Set in an alternative world, an alien space ship has been hovering over Johannesburg for over 20 years. They was a lost, malnutrited alien race, and a 'humanitarian' crisis happened. The South African government isolated the aliens, derogatorily known as the 'prawns', into a crime ridden slum in the centre of the city, known as District 9. District 9 becomes an embarrassment for South Africa, and the government, using a private agency, plan to evict the aliens to a camp outside the city, so they are out of sight. Bureaucrat Wikus van de Merwe (Sharlto Copley) is assigned the mission to evict the aliens. But as he tries to do this he becomes inflected with a strange fluid and he himself ends up as a science experiment. Wikus ends up becoming a fugitive, and ends up hiding in District 9. He forms an alliance with an alien called Christopher and both have to help each other out.This is a very ambitious film, especially for a first time director, Neill Blomkamp. It is clear that Peter Jackson had a influence in this film. Neill Blomkamp was able to sci-fi into a metaphor and a message about a number of themes. An obvious theme is apartheid because of the collective affect on South Africa and Neill Blomkamp's personal experience. It shows have a group end up being separated and end up becoming second-class citizens. They is also the theme of immigration and xenophobia, two issues that are affect South Africa as a moment. A recent poll show sadly that South African are on of the most xenophobic people in the world, and Blomkamp tries to show it in this film. Another theme is the idea of forced removal and preventing people being seen. This happened in South Africa, and has happened in other nations like China. As well as these major themes, they are other ideas explored like organised crime, drug addiction, illegal experimentation, superstition and traditional African witchcraft, the evils of the weapons industry and late-nineteenth century style American immigration (i.e. Ellis Island style treatment).They is a strong story, with Wikus being a reluctant hero and seeing the error of his ways. They is an emotional story, about the transformation to Wikus, both physically and mentally. They is also a good emotional story involving his friendship with Christopher and the father and son relationship with the film. I actually felt for them. There is a excellent, gory sci-fi action in this film and the special effects are pretty good for a film with a $30 Million budget. Blomkamp shows his background in computer graphics. The aliens themselves where designed very well, looking like bugs, but having very emotive eyes: it was very effective. The film is shown both as a faux documentary and as a standard movie, both style working very well. The film reminded me of the excellent Cloverfield. Blomkamp adds elements of dark comedy to his film which is enjoyable and helps break the tension of the film. He can do serious and light-hearted.A brilliant film ***** of *****
2008 has been a very good year for films, starting off strongly with films like No Country for Old Men, Sweeney Todd and There Will Be Blood, then to early action films like Cloverfield and I Am Legend and big summer blockbusters such as the Dark Knight, the Incredible Hulk and Iron Man. Quantum of Solace is another fine addition to the films of 2008 and the Bond franchise.Quantum of Solace is the first Bond film to be a direct sequel to the previous film. It takes one hour after the events of Casino Royale and the actions starts straight away with an car chase in rural Italy before taking Mr. White who was shot in the leg at the end of Casino Royale to a secret underground location in Siena, Tuscancy. There Bond and M question Mr. White, and mocking them and tells MI6 that 'we have people everywhere', before escaping. With the little information MI6 has Bond goes to Haiti to find a possible contact with Mr. White's organisation. It is there where Bond meets Camille (Olga Kurylenko), a Bolivian agent and a woman who is seeking revenge against General Medrano (Joaquin Cosío), the former director of Bolivia, and seeks to reclaim his former title. In Haiti, Dominic Greene (Mathieu Amalric), a member of the Quantum organisation promises to aid Medrano in his coup, in exchange for a piece of worthless land in the middle of the country. Greene is able to get the support of the CIA, promising the American cheap oil for their non-involvement. However, Quantum has a wider ambition, and have their fingers in a lot of pies, and the organisation has a lot of important members of government, intelligence and business. Greene claims to be a environmentalist, buying up large parts of land in South America for reforestation projects, but he is really trying to control the world's most valuable resource, water.As well as Bond's mission to stop Greene's evil scheme, Bond is also on a personal mission of revenge for Vesper who killed herself at the end of Casino Royale. She had ended up working with Quantum to save her Algerian boyfriend, but ended up trying to protect our hero. He blames them for Vesper's betrayal and her death. He is willing to do anything to get revenge, including seduction an innocent young woman, and going rouge from MI6.After Casino Royale, the obvious choice for director would have been Martin Campbell, but he was unavailable and the producers of Bond like to change directors to give each film a fresh feel. Marc Forster was picked to direct, an excellent Swiss director who had a good reputation for character films and a Bond fan, but Quantum of Solace was his first action film. Dan Bradley was hired as second unit director, famous for his work with the Bourne Trilogy and help with the action scenes. Forster did not copy Campbell's director and made his own film in his own style, which worked a very well. His style was fresh and different to Bond franchise. Paul Haggis was kept as a writer, another man credited for the reboot of the Bond franchise. Mark Kermode, the film critic on Radio Five Live claimed that the plot made no sense, however I beg to differ because I thought that it was a tight thriller, trying to take the most realistic view possible about how an organisation could try and dominate the world and as the film said water is the world's most valuable resource. Many experts claim that in 21th century that it is very likely that they will be wars over water, including in Central Asia and the Middle East. Forster also decides to add to the realism by making the villain more human, having no scars or having a God complex or anything, just making him a ruthless business man.The acting is of a high standard, Daniel Craig and Judi Dench offer strong performances as usual, and they were good performance from many of the other actors like Amalric, Kurylenko and Gemma Arterton.They are some more traditional Bond elements in this film, such as the scenes in the horse-race and the opera and Forster pays homage to previous films like Goldfinger, the Living Daylights and even Moonraker. The film has a very sixties feels to it, but there are no gadgets and the film is also very comtempoary. The CIA is not shown in the best light, willing to support a director in their own backyard, but at least Felix Leiter does at least over a more moral voice. There are also elements of the Bourne films in this film. As well Quantum of Solace is more action packed then Casino Royale, but you need to see Casino Royale first to get the background to it.They are three faults with the film. First I thought the film was a little too short and could have been about 10 minutes longer. Second the editing is also needing a bit of work, loosing track of some of fighting, but it was still very intense. Finally the theme-song was really awful!Quantum of Solace isn't as good as Casino Royale, but its a very strong film and a good second place to Casino Royale and an excellent follow-up. A very strong 9 out of 10.Finally to all haters of the Daniel Craig Bond, or seeing Bond as a gritty realist character, I'll put it to you this way: Quantum of Solace is a masterpiece next to Die Another Day.
Unlike a lot of people, I thought the Pirates of the Caribbean series was okay, entertaining in place, but not great. Pirate films have a history of being flops, from Roman Polanski's Pirates to the biggest Blockbuster failure Cutthroat Island. Pirates of the Caribbean also has a filmy source material, a ride at Disneyworld (and the Florida version isn't that good). So the signs weren't good. However, the film is produced by Jerry Bruckheimer who has made a large number of blockbusters, had writers who were involved in successful films like Aladdin, the Mask of Zorro, Antz, Shrek and Colleratal, and staring Johnny Depp and Geoffrey Rush.POTC is set in the 17th Century, set in the Caribbean (surprise surprise). Sailing from England to Port Royal, Jamaica, the young Elizabeth Swann (Keira Knightley) and her father, the Governor of the island (Jonathan Pryce) find a young boy, Will Turner (Orlando Bloom) floating in the ocean. The film fast-forwards to when Elizabeth and Will are young adults, Elizabeth still the daughter of the governor and Will is a blacksmith. Will is in love with Elizabeth but doesn't do anything about it. However their world is rocked when Jack Sparrow (Johnny Depp) shows up. He saves Elizabeth from drowning before getting arrested by the British authorities. That night Port Royal is attacked by pirates from the Black Pearl, with Captain Barbossa (Geoffrey Rush) leading them. Elizabeth is kidnapped and Jack and Will have to chase to save her.Now the film is hokum, but that's acceptable. It is meant for a family entertainment. It also adds supernatural elements and it felt similar to the Mummy, even have similar action scenes. This film in the series has the simplest plot and has many humorous elements. The action is top-draw, mixing live-action and CGI, the whole series is known for it special effects and had an excellent score. The acting is hit and miss. Johnny Depp is entertaining as the drunken, distruthful Jack Sparrow. This is Johnny Depp's first blockbuster, in the past often rejecting big budget movies to work on smaller projects. Depp is a brilliant actor. Geoffrey Rush is an actor who added gravitas to project and makes an excellent villain; the films allows him to have some fun. Johnathan Pryce was underused in the film, but still made his character a good but indifferent being. Keira Knightley was okay, I don't mind her, she is very easy on the eye. Orlando Bloom is a bit wet and he has been type-casted since Lord of the Rings (he has been in Troy and Kingdom of Heaven). The film is too long and the story is not the best. It is filled with pirate clichés. Gore Verbinski is more comfortable with the action scenes then character development. Most of the humours comes from Jack Sparrow and often slapstick.Basically the film is entertaining enough, 3 out of 5.
After a six year hiatus the Lethal Weapon returned with a fourth film, the last of the series: though there are rumours of a fifth film. With a budget of $100 Million Lethal Weapon 4 was considered the weakest in box-office return and critical reaction: but in my opinion I consider it better then Lethal Weapon 3.With both Sergeants Martin Riggs (Mel Gibson) and Roger Murtaugh (Danny Glover) are getting older and whilst still causing damage in Los Angles there can do less physical fests. Both men's families are expanding, Rigg's partner Lorna (Rene Russo) and Muztagh's daughter Rianne (Traci Wolfe) are pregnant and both are them are promoted to captain. At the same time they investigate people smuggling by the Triads led by Benny Chan (Kim Chan) and Triad enforcer Wah Sing Ku (Jet Li). With the aid of young police sergeant Lee Butters (Chris Rock) and private investigator Leo Getz (Joe Pesci) the two set out to bring down the Triads who are putting people into slavery.Like the first three films there is strong chemistry between Gibson and Glover, with good comic timing, particularly in the beginning when a nutcase in homemade armour, a flamethrower and a machine gun is causing a lot of damage. But the two are getting older and it was clear that a stunt double was being used more often and there were jokes about their ages. It was also good that Gibson cut the Three Stooges stick and his character was more serious and down to Earth With the rest of the cast there Chris Rock was decent, offering his motormouth style of comedy and he is a much better then many American comedians like Chris Tucker, Martin Lawrence and Dane Cook. He is better stand up but he is a decent actor and he is also good as playing a straight, serious character as well. Jet Li was excellent as the villain, both as a material artist and as a sinister threat, the real mastermind of the plot. Pesci's character also improves from the annoying being he was in Lethal Weapon 3, but his character still doesn't add anything to the film.Richard Donner keeps the stunt work of the first three films and there are some excellent sequences, especially involving Jet Li's fighting ability. There are good gun battles and a excellent car chase on the freeway which was done with traditional action techniques. The scene involving the nutcase was also fun. But some of the action became more over the top, with bad guys missing with great skill with AK-47s whilst the good guys can shoot really well in the dark and at distance with pistols. Other examples are when Riggs uses the laser sight of his gun to bounce a bullet into the back of a Chinese guard, considering that's not however a laser sight works and Riggs and Murtaugh drive through a building without killing anyone and then jumping back onto the freeway. Another examples are when Riggs shots the back of a nutcase in his flamethrowers fuel supply and he ends up flying into a fuel tanker and a oil drum flying into the air into Murtaugh's boat. But Donner is a good action director and when it's done right it was great to watch.There is a good use of a Chinese score in the film, adding to the atmosphere. Donner does have good pace in the film and the script does have some fine ideas, like counterfeiting Chinese currency and human trafficking. But some elements are just fillers like the car chase when in the end the officers question Uncle Benny for information. Like the first film the henchman takes over the organisation. Also the ending is cringe worthy with Lorna giving birth, with an unfunny scene where Lorna and Riggs getting married by a Rabbi (it more funny that we all know Gibson is a raving anti-Semite) and a sentimental ending about family which only Americans can do in a vomit inducing way.The film is worth watching simply because of Jet Li.
2011 is certainly the year for Marvel Studio, seeing that Thor came out earlier in the year to good reviews and a healthy box-office considering he is a lesser known hero and Captain America has done even better with critics and a stronger opening. Added to that Fox's reboot of X-Men was able to get that series right after the mess Brett Ratner left it in.Steve Rogers (Chris Evans) is a small, skinny man with a number of health problems who wants to fight in the American Army in 1942. After numerous times of trying to enlist a German scientist, Abraham Erskine (Stanley Tucci) sees his determination and good heart is able to pull some strings and gets him into the army. Rogers joins a special unit and is seen as the perfect candidate to become America's first super soldier, giving him enhanced strength, speed and healing abilities. In Germany the Nazi's secret science division, HYDRA and its leader Johann Schmidt (Hugo Weaving) discovers a blue cube of energy and believes it could give him the power of the Gods and likes all mad scientists plans to take over the world. In America Rogers is made into a performing act, encouraging the public to buy war bonds and given the name Captain America. But Rogers wants to fight in the war and is given his chance to take on HYDRA in 1943.I personally preferred Thor over Captain America, but it still a fun summer flick and a solid 7.5/10. Captain America has plenty of references to Thor and the Iron Man films and shows how these franchise should be interlinked. Captain America is able to mix a light touch but making sure it treats the source material with respect and keeps it serious. Joe Johnston wouldn't have been my first choice to direct this film but certainly made it fun and he was more assured as an action director compared to Kenneth Brangh, director of Thor. It was a fast paced actioneer, but Johnston made sure they was enough time to let us know the characters and the set up for the plot. When Captain America first gains his powers the scene of him catching an assassin on top of a taxi reminded me a lot of the first Spider-man film, a film that got mix of serious and light-hearted right. This was certainly a good introduction to character and the start for what should be another successful adaptation for Marvel.The humour throughout the film is deadpan and there are very good performance from the supporting cast, especially Weaving, Tommy Lee Jones and Tucci. Weaving certainly knows how to portray evil characters. Evans was able to instill Captain America's values of determination, freedom, strength and being a force for good. But the thing about Captain America is that he is a classic hero, living in a world of absolutes of good and evil, they is no ambiguity. And well, Hayley Atwell is a token Brit so she gets a free pass.The score by Alan Silverstri it self has an old fashion, grand feel to it and there were reminds to films such as the first Hellboy film, starting during World War Two with the Nazis using mythology to gain an advantage to win the war and classic 60s and 70s war films like Where Eagles Dare.Captain America is an enjoyable blockbuster and necessary viewing if you plan to view The Avengers in 2012.
From the directors of Little Miss Sunshine is Ruby Sparks, a much more serious and darker film despite its billing as a comedy-drama.Calvin Weir-Fields (Paul Dano) is a writer who stuck it big when he published a critically acclaimed novel when he was 19. But 10 years later he has been struggling to write a second novel and lives a lonely lifestyle: his only real friends are his older brother Harry (Chris Messina) and sister-in-law Susie (Toni Trucks). But one day his psychologist Dr. Rosenthal (Elliot Gould) gives Calvin a writing assignment to write a page and he uses it as an opportunity to write up about a girl he dreamt about. Calvin makes a detailed background for the girl, Ruby Sparks: but he wakes up one day and finds that Ruby (Zoe Kazan) becomes a reality.Anyone who has invested time into writing a story and creating characters can really get to know and love their creations, feel for them when they go through their adventure. Ruby Sparks attempts to be a physical representation of this. Ruby Sparks also plays on the fantasy of many people of thinking about their perfect partner and Calvin comes up with a very vivid picture; creating a woman with a lot of faults as well quirks that makes her so lovable to him. Because of the musical realism element the film follows a theme of Calvin being controlling of Ruby, using his magical abilities to control Ruby, change her and all leads to a wonderfully dark scene need the end. This changes Calvin from being a sympathetic character into something much more sinister, particularly into an abusive/controlling boyfriend, fighting for something that should not exist.Ruby Sparks was certainly not a comedy; there were a few small moments, but for the most of the time it is a drama. This is a film that wanted to keep a indie spirit throughout, wanting to be quirky and hipster with its style, storytelling and visual look of the areas and characters. The musical score was very fitting and memorial and the acting was top-notch, but this is a film that is a required taste. Fans of the quirky dramedy genre and independent cinema will be the people who will get the most of Ruby Sparks, there is themes about the price of frame and success at a early age, the burden of labels on people and artists, the efforts of a lack of socialisation on a person and of course the attempted domination of women and the writing process. But this was a film that I thought was a little hollows and hard for me to get into.Ruby Sparks is a film that attempts substance and it should have been marketed more as a slightly more darker, more serious magical realist film then it was advertised as. It is interesting, a solid piece of filmmaking but it is hardly going to be the most memorable film of 2012.
I admit that Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind was not my cup of tea and looking at voting history on IMDb and my friends own Facebook accounts, this is a film very popular with women. However I respect that it was a creative bit of film-making, showing that Michel Gondy was a skilled director and that Jim Carrey is more then a physical comedian.The story of the film is focused on Joel (Jim Carrey) and Clementine (Kate Winslet), a couple who just broke up. When Joel tries to make up with Clementine he discovered that she had her memories of Joel erased and was with another man. This leaves Joel heartbroken and goes for the same process. However when he goes through with the process and the further back in his mind he goes he discoveries what and why he loved Clementine in the first place and he fights to try and keep hold of his memories. At the same time their are subplots involving the technicians who were conducting the process. One of them, Patrick (Elijah Wood) had entered into a relationship with Clementine and used all her memories of Joel to his advantage. Also two other technicians, Stan (Mark Ruffalo) and Mary (Kirsten Dunst) get stoned and party when doing the process at Joel's apartment and battle to try and erase Joel's memories whilst he was resisting.The basic themes of the film are love and memory. Whilst the film at times is a little dark the message is simple and sweet, that love is every lasting and will conquest any obstacle. At well, it looks at how the human mind works and it is a surreal place. It shows how we all want to keep memories and would want to get rid of others and try to move on in our lives.Michel Gondy paid very close attention to details. Throughout out the film when in Joel's mind you notice little things going, like the books when Clementine is working. There was also set-pieces that to be worked and with such complex ideas it took a director of real skill to handle it. Gondy and Charlie Kaufman both show that they have large imaginations to make a film like this and it was a special effort. There was a good cast in this film. Kate Winslett was particularly good and so was Tom Wilkinson (a fine actor). Jim Carrey showing that he is trying to move away from comedy roles. ESOTSM was his most serious role, but there was the odd moments of comedy. Dunst and Ruffalo were decent, Dunst could have been a little better later on. Wood seemed miscasted, he seem more wet rather then slimy.7.5 out of 10.
After his directional debut making Control Anton Corbijn quickly became an in-demand director and his follow-up feature was The American with Hollywood leading man George Clooney. This subtle slow thriller has divided audiences the world over.Clooney plays an assassin, going by the names Jack and Edward, but often called The American. Whilst hiding out in Northern Sweden with his lover Ingrid (Irina Bjorklund) they is found by a duo of assassins and The American has to kill them and Ingrid to survive. The American flees to Rome and his contact Pavel (Johan Leysen) gives him one last job, to make a specialist rifle for another assassin (Thekla Reuten). As he does his task in the town of Castel del Monte The American befriends the local Catholic priest, Father Benedetti (Paolo Bonacelli) and starts to fall for a prostitute Clara (Violante Placido). But of course no one ever leaves the assassination game.Corbijn comes from a photography background and The American certainly a very well shot film. The cinematography is top notch and the film does have a real excellent look to it. There are plenty of elements of The American I appreciate , I like that The American is trying to be more grounded, that an assassin would lead a lonely, would be very cold and that he has to be on alert all the time. The American has to be planning and preparing all the time and that he has to think on his feet when he needs to. The film almost plays like an anti-action film, this is not a glamorous world like Bond nor a world like Bourne where everyone is an expert fighter, everything takes place in low-key environments, the cars are just old or normal vehicles, The American has to keep a low profile so he does not live the life of Reilly. I enjoyed how The American had to make the rifle and when he and the female assassin have to test it out, talking about the specifics and what she requires: it is not simply a case of just picking up any old gun. The scenes in the isolated picturesque stop where they test out the weapon reminded me or a similar scene in the 1970s thriller The Day of the Jacket (which I highly recommend).Many critics have compared The American to films like Le Samourai. I can not fairly judge because I have not seen Le Samourai but The American does remind me of a 70s style film, focusing on a cool style, characters, a downbeat tone and not about action at all. As I stated it reminded me or Day of the Jacket and also of films like the Odessa Files. This is a film that aims to be a atmospheric, slow burning film, about a character that has to be always on guard and can not let anyone into his world.Whilst I like the idea of a more realistic look into how an assassin would function and trying to be a bit more intelligence to a typical action film, at times The American is too slow for its own good, being too drawn out. There needed to be a little more drive, like seeing The American coming up with a plan for an assassination, following the target, knowing their movements, scouting locations and then doing a quick assassination. Or we could have seen more of his attempts to adjust to normal society after life alone or trying to live a normal life but of course never really able to have one.The American is a very well crafted film with many strong elements. I works well as a more realistic thriller for people do not like blockbusters but it is sometimes too slow for its own good.
Last year we saw the historical spy thriller Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy which took a realistic, slow burning approach to the upper echelons of MI6. Shadow Dancer aims to take a similar approach, taking a ground up view.The year is 1993 and Peace Process is in full swing. Colette (Andrea Riseborough) is a member of the IRA who is arrested by MI5 after a failed bombing of the London Underground. MI5 officer Mac (Clive Owen) gives her a choice, she can be arrested and her young son would be put into care or she can turn informant against her brother, Conner (Domhnall Gleeseon). She choices the latter. But as soon as she turns informant her IRA commanders suspect she is a traitor and she becomes a figure to investigate as Mac tries to protect her.Shadow Dancer is a slow burning film with the pace to match. This is a film that is far away from the worlds of Bond, Bourne and Mission Impossible and this a film where the aim of MI5 try to stop action happening. Shadow Dancer is also as much a family drama as it is a spy, focusing on Colette's struggle to protect her son, having to betray both her brother and her ideology as mother also try to protect her.Director James Marsh sets out to show that this is a brutal world of violence, the IRA willing to kill and torture and that is a complex world yet bureaucratic world within MI5. Many of the characters are complex and well drawn, they felt like real in this world and Marsh made sure he did not side or moralise one faction or the other. It is a character driven film and the whole cast were terrific. The highlight was Riseborough, giving a compelling and grounded performance of a woman who needs to protect her family by betraying and a character used by the IRA and MI5. By falling into the spy world she fears for her live and soon forced to explore her dark side as she tries to protect herself. Owen too is great, starting off in an antagonist role but slowly develops as character who wants to be bold a good intelligence officer and protect his agent because of his duty and for the person she is. He is gives a very intense and believable performance. The world of spying, terrorism and Northern Irish society is a very complicated web that is difficult to untie.Marsh comes from a documentary background and it shows with his camera-work, the slow build up of tension and the great amount of period detail. Marsh does everything he can to draw the audience into the early 90s in a poor working class community, right down little things like the televisions and cars. During the tense scenes Marsh uses hand-held cameras, following Colette in long continuous shots that feel like a document as the action takes place.There is a side theme during the film between approaches the leadership and the foot soldiers in both the IRA and MI5. There is a divide between the political leadership of the IRA at the time and the foot soldiers lead by Gerry (Aiden Gillian) and Kevin (David Wilmot) who wants to carry on the fight and willing to ignore the leadership who want to negotiate peace. There is a view that some people who do not want peace, that there is only one resolution to their cause: it kept going during the peace process and it is still going on in Northern Ireland. It could easily happen in other situations around the world. The politics within MI5 is played more like a convention spy with the superiors not telling their agent anything and keeping him out of the loop, leading him to undergo his own unofficial investigation. This is a film set in a culture of distrust between Catholics and Protestants and how it infects everything, families, the intelligence services, the politics and hierarchy of IRA.Shadow Dancer is a very slow film that can turn some off and sometimes a certain piece of information flies by so fast that it is easy to miss and wonder when did this happen. It also do not help that there is a character called Gerry because he can easily be confused for Gerry Adams. But because of its style and themes Shadow Dancer does share similarities to Tinker, Tailor Soldier Spy, Animal Kingdom and Hunger, all films you should check out.
Manhattan is often considered Woody Allen's magnum opus, his great work that has been praised by critics and audiences alike, earning Oscars and a place on the IMDb Top 250 list.Isaac Davis (Allen) is a TV comedy writer who wants to write the great American novel. Despite being 42 and twice divorced he is dating a 17-year-old old girl, Tracey (Mariel Hemingway). His ex-wife Jill (Meryl Streep), who left him for another woman, is writing a book about the breakdown of their marriage and after Isaac quits his job he is left cash poor. Despite his relationship with Tracey, Isaac starts to full for another woman, the intelligential but pretentious Mary (Diane Keaton). But she is a woman who is already in a relationship with Isaac's friend, Yale (Michael Murphy).Manhattan is a great looking film with its black and white cinematography highlighting the city, particularly when we get to see the skyline. Combined with Allen's directional approach of long takes and tracking shots gave the film a very classical feel. Allen is very good at letting a conversation flow and letting the actors interact and reaction off each other.Allen assembles an excellent cast who play their roles perfectly. They all worked well together and were very believable, even Hemingway as nice, a little naïve teenager who is somehow in a relationship with a man 25 years her senior. Streep role was small but was the professional she always is and Keaton was very different to her role in Annie Hall.When compared to Allen's previous film Annie Hall Manhattan is much more grounded and it is more of a drama then a comedy. There are some funny lines but they are much sparer. But there are some comparisons to Annie Hall, we have similar characters like Yale being a little like Rob in Annie Hall and Allen continues his assault on both mainstream TV comedy and pretentiousness. Like Annie Hall attacks Allen pretentious intelligentialism when talking about art and Allen has a continued love for Ingmar Bergman: but Allen's character is equally as pretentious as Mary yet he gets a free pass.Isaac comes up across as a very selfish and narcissistic character, he only cared about himself and willing to step over other people for his interests. All the characters selfish as they have affairs with each other and want to have the best of both worlds, like Yale who wants Mary whilst stay with his wife. SPOILER: I felt that Isaac's wanting to be with Tracey at the end was a very selfish and basically picked because he just wanted to be with somewhere. Only Tracey comes off in a good light because she has an idealised view of romance and relationships, willing to do anything for Isaac before gaining experience and knowledge from the relationship.I can see why people do like the film but I personally felt it was overrated. Compared to Annie Hall Manhattan lacked heart and passion and felt a much colder film. It is higher to sympathise with the characters in this looser narrative that film has to offer.
Kung Fu Hustle is a very entertaining film, and I am a sucker for good material arts. This is a good example of Hong Kong cinema being able to challenge Hollywood movies.The plot of the film is that 1930s Shanghai, and the Axe Gang runs the streets of the city. Most people live in fear of the gang, expect for a poor district known as Pig Sly. The Axe Gang get humiliated when they end up fighting in the district and found out the most of the citizens are expert material artists. The Axe Gang are obviously annoyed and hire a number of assassins to take on the district, which leads to some epic fights.The film is very surreal and cartoony in its approach, which I think is very fitting. It is very humorous, the language barrier was not a problem. It also has homages to other films like the blood in the corridor scene from the Shinning and the fight at the end with the Axe Gang which was similar to the fight with the Agent Smiths in the Matrix Reloaded (the best scene in the two other Matrix films). The material arts fights were really good: the choreographer was Yuen Wo Ping, who worked on the Matrix, Kill Bill and Fearless. It is also a homage to Jackie Chan movies but I think it better then Jackie Chan. I admit I'm not much of a fan, I like him as material artist, but not as an actor. It is violence, and like other modern material arts films from Hong Kong and China it does focus on detail and is very theatrical.Kung Fu Hustle is a good film, especially for fans of material art films, Jackie Chan and Asian cinema. I believe that cinema from the Far East (China, Japan, Hong Kong and South Korea) produce some of the best cinema in the world.
When a film is directed by Martin Scorsese and starring Robert De Niro you know that it's going to be good and worth at least an 8 out of 10. Here is the project Scorsese swapped with Steven Spielberg who ended up doing Schindler's List and both men made wise choices, playing to their own strength. Here Scorsese shows remakes can be good if the right people are involved.Set in the small town of New Essex in Southern America, private practice lawyer Sam Bowden (Nick Nolte) lives happily enough with his wife Leigh (Jessica Leigh) and 15-year-old daughter Danielle (Juliette Lewis), who has to go to summer school for smoking cannabis. Max Cady (Robert De Niro) had just been released from prison after serving 14 years for raping a 16-year-old girl. During his time in prison he ends up reading law books, philosophy and the bible, exercises and tattooed his body. He blames Sam for why he was sent to private and starts to stake his family, following them, killing the family pet, hoovering outside their property, basically making their live hell. He even attacks and rapes a friend of Sam who was a law clerk. Cady is also a cleaver, arrogant and psychopathic. He tries to justify his actions, plays mind games and uses the law against Sam and make him feel powerless. Sam ends up taking desperate messages, hiring a private investigator (Joe Don Baker), and even ends up using violence to try and stop Cady. Cady use mind games and even tries to get at Sam by using his daughter.This is a strong film, with Robert De Niro on form as a psycho, and Martin Scorsese direction is brilliant always. He has such a good style and wonderful shots, as well as good casting choices, especially in the supporting cast. There is a strong script and a powerful score by Elmer Bernstein. Sam is a sympathetic and well-developed character and Cady would be anyone's worst nightmare. Cady is how a stalker would functioned and use the outskirts of the law to avoid getting arrested. As well the law is shown to be hopeless like it did in real life, with the police and court sometimes targeting the wrong person. The film is about how someone could be driven to they dark side to protect their family and how someone else could be so warp in the head to justify what they have done. Cady also shows that he can be charming which proves to be a useful weapon. The film also raises a good point about rape cases, with the idea just because a victim may be promiscuous it doesn't mean someone has a right to rape her.The film is brutal and violence, which is excepted from a Scorsese film, but he never over does it. There are reasons behind it and not over done compared to say someone like the overrated Mel Gibson.However, they is one problem with this film, which is no fault of its own: I kept thinking of the Simpsons' parody episode Cape Feare.4 out of 5.
L. Frank Baum's Oz series is one of the beloved series in children's literature and lead to one of the most popular family films ever, The Wicked of Oz. There have been many projects since the 1939 based on the Oz property, from a pseudo-sequel Return to Oz and the novel Wicked which has turned into a hit musical. Now Disney and Sam Raimi have made their own prequel to the Wizard of Oz after the Billion Dollar success of Alice in Wonderland.In 1905 Oscar Diggs (James Franco) is a stage magician known as Oz, The Great and Powerful, for a travelling circus in the Midwest. He seduces naïve country girls using a rehearsal story and a music box and the woman he loves, Annie (Michelle Williams) is engaged in a marrying another man. But when he is running away from the circus strong man Oz ends up in a hot air balloon and when he gets stuck in a tornado ends up getting transported to Oz.When in Oz our hero finds out from Theodora the Good Witch (Mila Kunis) of a prophecy that a man with the same name as the land is a great wizard who will save the world from the Wicked Witch. He takes up the task because of the promise of Oz would have access to the riches of the land. Partnered with a flying monkey, Finley (Zack Braff) and a girl made from china (Joey King) who has lost her family. But they soon learn the truth from Glinda the Good Witch of the South (also Williams).Oz: The Great and Powerful is a fantastic looking film with great special effects. I admit I would have preferred to have seem more practical effects and sets and some of the blue screen effects looked a little too layered, but on the whole the CGI was incredible and when first ever Oz it felt very similar to Pandora in Avatar and The Inbetween in The Lovely Bones. There was some incredible visuals, such as the tree's leafs the turn into birds, the jewel flowers and the mountains that look like animals. The China Girl was also an great creation as you got to see all every crack and every little detail and heard every sound when she moved.Sam Raimi was able to assumable a great cast for Oz: The Great and Powerful. The highlights were Williams, Rachel Weisz and King. Williams was a real coup for the film and she does really bring to life the embodiment of goodness and made what could have been a dull character interesting. Weisz relished her role as the villain and King has improved a lot as a child actress, partly because she had much more to do then in her previous roles. Braff was good as the comic relief character and Franco was fine when he played the role straight. But Kunis was a bit stiff in her role which is a shame considering her good work in Black Swan and Ted.For fans of the 1939 film there are some fun little references to that film and the original novels and author. The journey Oz takes also has a similar route to one Dorothy took as he meets his partners, saving one of them, healing another and a bit misunderstanding of the third. Added to that the partners are also people in the our world.Raimi does make a great look film and he brings his visual style to the film. There are moments that felt like Raimi film, particular his Spider-man films, whilst still homaging his horror routes. This was particularly the case when we see the origins of the Wicked Witch of the West. The tone is light mostly, but there are still some dark moments, like seeing the aftermath of the attack on China Town. The pacing was right for the film and it never dragged despite the long running time Oz: The Great and Powerful is a solidly enjoyable family film and it is refreshing to see a fantasy film that is not chasing the PG-13 rating to make the film more marketable or go down the 'dark and gritty' route. Good comparisons and recommendations would be with The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey, Stardust and the Narnia, for tonal, thematic and visual reasons. However Oz: The Great and Powerful was too reliance on using humour to keep the light tone when playing it straight would been a better fit.
Back in 1978 Superman became the first superhero film and made with the intent of treating it's source material seriously. It was a big special effects movie that was made at the time of the rise of blockbusters like Jaws and Star Wars and still has fans today. But does it stand the test of time.On the planet of Krypton the ruling council ignores their leading scientist Jor-El's (Marlon Brando) warnings that their planet is about to face destroy and threaten him with exile to the Phantom Zone, a fate worst then death, if he tries to leave the planet. Given no option and seeing that his planet is about to be destroyed he put his only son Kal-El in a space ship and send him to Earth with all the knowledge Krypton has. On Earth Kal-El crash lands in Smallville and is raised by Jonathan and Martha Kent (Glenn Ford and Phyllis Thaxter) as their son, Clark. Years later Clark (Christopher Reeve) becomes a reporter for a major newspaper, the Daily Planet and the North Pole his he created his Fortress of Solitude where he learns about his planet and its history. He becomes Superman, having abilities no one else Earth has and soon starts a relationship with Lois Lane (Margot Kidder). But villain Lex Luthor (Gene Hackman) plans to commit the crime of the century and willing to kill Superman to do it.Before Superman all superhero programs and film serials were either seen as children programmes, like the George Reeves Adventures of Superman or the camp Adam West Batman. Even as comics were getting darker and more serious comic books were still seen as children's entertainment. This Superman project had a lot of potential, being one of the best known superhero and it had a long production. A number of directors were attached, Francis Ford Coppola, Steven Spielberg, William Friedkin and Sam Peckinpah. Guy Hamilton of Bond fame, director Goldfinger, was set to director but had to leave because he could not live in England for more then a month because he was tax cheat. Richard Donner stepped in, having only made The Omen and a few TV Movies. Donner's directing is mixed, he is able to come up with some grand visions for Krypton and a dark sombre tone when Jor-El sends his son off as the planet is being destroyed. The action sequences are strong and the special effects were the best available at the time, though the flying effect does look a bit ropey by modern standard. But I do like the physicality of using models and more does need to be used for modern blockbusters. There are also tender moments between Superman and Lois Lane, the flying send being the most famous and Donner did do well for the most part for having to fit in a lot of the Superman story in one film, his origins from his childhood to his early days as Superman and mixing the tone and action sequences.For me however I do not have the nostalgia for Superman that some people have, growing up with this series. They see it a proper serious superhero film, but I find there are still problems. There is a lack of a good antagonist: you can not really respect Lex Luther as the main villain of this film. He sometimes has a dark edge, killing a police officer like a Bond villain but for the most part Luthor and his henchpeople are just played for laughs taking away an threat they main hold and some of the leaps of logic is extraordinary, particularly how they figure out Superman's weakness is Kryptonite. Luthor has an extraordinarily dumb play and its only in Superman Returns when Luthor is actually a sinister and creditable villain. I think Donner was so focused on showing Superman's origins he didn't have time to develop a good villain. There are also so really cheesy and silly moments like when Lois and Clark at robbed and Clark's exaggerated geeky traits. There is also no set scene of time, with a lot of the characters looking like they were from the 50s. We can also not over look the ending, how the hell is spinning around the world and making it rotate backwards able to make time go backwards? There are a lot of problems with it and it causes a lot of plot holes, including Superman could have gotten both nukes within seconds. It is the type of ending which pretty much say the previous event didn't matter because we reset time.We know that there was a long casting process to find someone who could play Clark Kent and Superman, from James Caan, to Christopher Walken, to Arnold Schwarzenegger. Reeve was an unknown stage actor but he really was Superman, who was torn between Jol-El who was his mentor and his desire to protect Earth because of the ideals he was raised on. This Superman is a little more arrogant but that is because he is still young and starting out as a hero. But of course he is still a good man. Reeve had excellent chemistry with Kidder, both as Clark and Superman and she is strong in role as a smart journalist on the up. My view on Hackman is that his role was ruined by the comedy but at least there was so banner with Valerie Perrine. There is no denying Brando was a great Jol-El, giving his character a calm grandness and he played his role deadly seriously.Plus Superman has one of John Williams' best scores, a really powerful rousing bit music.Overall Superman is a fun film but what lets it down are some cheesy/silly moments, a bit too much comedy and a lack of a treating antagonist. It is not the classic some people think it is but it is a worthy film. A 7.5/10 would be a fair IMDb score.
Based on a popular character in Japanese culture, Zatoichi is a reboot and a revival of a popular series in that island nation.Zatoichi focuses on a blind samurai, Ichi ('Beat' Takeshi Kitano), who is simply known as the masseur. In a small town a rural Japan, a gang is extort the locals for protection and the local gang leaders, Ogi (Saburô Ishikura) and Ginzo (Ittoku Kishibe) plan to eliminate other local clans to ensure official control of the region. They recruit a skilled ronin (Tadanobu Asano) known as the Bodyguard, a man who acts as their enforcer. At the same time there are two geishas, Okinu (Yuko Daike) and Osei (Yui Natsukawa), siblings that are after revenge against the gang who killed their family.Zatocichi is a very eclectic film in both style and the actual story. It is a well directed piece by Kitano with delight violence action with blood fly all over the place, excellent shots but also show that samurai sword fighting was quick, there was no drawn out sword fights. The violence was over the top but that was part of the fun. Zatocichi is comic, with a large amount of violence slapstick, like early on in the film when a man draws out his sword and cuts the bloke next to him or the village idiot running around with a spear. But at the same time there is a weird clash with more quiet moments, typical of Japanese drama and there are dark subject matter like a small boy ending up prostituting himself.The story it self is a mix of different events and Ichi does disappear for long times in the movie. There is of course the subplot with the geishas, as well as the raise of the Ginzo gang and there are smaller subplots involving the Bodyguard taking the job at the gang so he could pay for a curse for his wife and Ichi and his buddy's gambling. The pacing is at times is a little slow and some elements could have been cut making Zatoichi a more tort 90 minutes. Ichi himself is not a character who does much investigation or take more action to stop the gang and protect the town. It would have given his character more a drive.Many of the supporting characters did have interesting backstories and I particularly like the Bodyguard. He is a character who obviously has a dark past, but simply works as a enforcer because it was all he knows and doing it to get money for his sick wife. Weirdly the film ignores that he has a sick wife and I personally would have thought that an interesting plot point would have been her death and driven the Bodyguard over the edge. He is a character with a violence, savage side but also human. The geishas two have a dark, complex backstory forcing them down a horrid path. They are not just looking for revenge but forced to rob men and make violence a way of live. Kitano is a good actor and he is a star in Japan. I did really like his role in Battle Royale and an element I enjoyed about Zatoichi is not just that his character is blind but he is clearly an older hero as well. Kitano gives Ichi a claim demeanour with insight but very willing to use his sword.Overall Zatoichi is certainly a cult classic and fans of Japanese cinema (like myself) will enjoy this film. But is a film that needed a little more focus in plot and approach. Still if you are looking for a bit of sword slashing action this film is a pretty good place to start.
Russian cinema has been becoming more well known in recent years, making films like 9th Company and Timur Bekmambetov starting to become big in Hollywood. Historical Epic have often been films which Chinese cinema has done well. With Mongol the two are combined to tell the story about Genghis Khan's rise to power.The film tells the story about how a young warrior, Temujin unites the Mongolian tribes and becomes Genghis Khan. The film starts when Temujin is 9 and has to pick a bride, showing early on his stubborn side and finding the love of his life in a weak tribe. But early on in his life his father, a powerful khan is murder, and a rival usurps Temujin's rightful position. He is only spared because he is a child and the young boy vows revenge. Mongol tells how Temujin falls in love, with a bride, how shows how tough and brave a warrior he was. He forms a power base, shows loyalty to his soldiers and makes alliances. But his life is met with setbacks as well as triumphs.Mongol is a fairly entertaining film, with its strongest element being the battle scenes. They are realistically violence which I like to see and clear about what's happening. It start action for an epic. The actors do a fine job, especially Japanese actor Tadanobu Asano in the lead. The actors seem to handle their lines well and the use of Mongolian seems okay to my ears. The director and cinematography are of a high level. They are beautiful shots of the Steppes, and the director Sergei Bodrov handles both the action and the character strongly. The film also has a strong character element, mainly the love story, and the film does raises some questions. They are stories about friendships and rivalries and what drove Temujin to became who he was. There is also a decent score by Tuomas Kantelinen with great percussion based music.What lets the film down is its high levels of historical inaccuracies. I personally hate when a film divert too much from history; I am highly critical of Braveheart because of this. There is a lot about the life of Genghis Khan: he united the Mongol tribes, giving them a capital city, ruled the largest land empire ever, a skilled military commander and tolerate of other cultures, e.g. Christians and Muslims. The film does with the events before Genghis Khan became powerful, but it still miss a lot out. The film does not show Temujin had brothers, and that he properly murdered on when he was 12, it doesn't show the political element, that Temujin believed in having a strong united army behind him, he couldn't have been a loner. I'm also sure he wasn't sold into slavery and here is a big SPOILER so stop reading now if you don't want to know: he gave his blood brother a bloodless death, not let him go. The film was too focused the love element, not the political story and was too willing to make some stuff up.Some elements of the film remembered me other epics, mostly Conan the Barbarian and Gladiator.It is still a worthy watch, 3 out of 5.
I am not a fan of musicals, but I did enjoy Sweeney Todd. This was a project made for Tim Burton and his was easily the best director for the film.The film is based on the Broadway musical which was based on the infamous killer (who may or may not existed). Benjamin Barker (Johnny Depp) was a barber who had lived happily in London with his wife and daughter. However, a evil judge had him arrested and sent him to Australia and took his wife and daughter away. Barker returns to London 15-years later, renamed himself Sweeney Todd and he was looking for revenge. When Sweeney returns he befriends Mrs. Lovett (Helena Bonham Carter), who's pie business is failing. The come up with a working relationship where Sweeney becomes a barber and gets to fill his blood lust and Mrs. Lovett gets free meat to make tasty pies.Burton's direction was great for this film, getting the Gothic feel which he is famous for, whilst adding a little humour. I prefer Burton when he makes more adult film then some of his family friendly one and when he is independence. It is also a little cartoon when it comes to the violence, obvious people do die in nasty ways, but the blood is bright red and it is a little overplayed. But I think it was needed because a gritty realist approach was not going to work. The casting was great. Helena Bonham Carter is an actress who I think is just great and I think that she was really good in this and was the best actor in the film. Johnny Depp is good, like he normally is and he does have a strong working relationship with Burton. I would admit that he isn't a strong singer, but he is better to say Pierce Brosnan in Mama Mia (it is comedically bad). Depp's English accent also reminded me of Jack Sparrow in the Pirates of the Caribbean films. But he is still very good with many of his songs and general acting. Alan Rickman is always good as a villain and there is a promising young actor, Ed Sanders, who was great as a drunk street kid. There was also Timothy Spall who does he usual creepy guy performance and Sacha Baron Cohen who added a little comic relief, and is better then in most of this thing i.e. Ali G. There were some good songs and this film is a great bit of escapism.Only one word of warning: this film is not for the faint hearted.
The Matrix is a modern classic, a great sci-fi film that is bound in its approach in a number of ways. It is intelligent and thought, but also great on an action/adventure level, giving us the famous bullet time sequence.The film focuses on a computer programme, Thomas Anderson/Neo(Keanu Reeves), who is interested in illegal activities and wants to find out about the Matrix. He meets up with a group of people led by Morphus (Laurence Fishbourne). It is then that he finds out that the world he knows is not real and that it was really a computer programme to keep the human population in subjugation. He learns that during the 21th century man and machine went to war with each other, which the machines won and kept humans alive as a power sorts. Neo was taken out of the Matrix because it was believe that he was the one to save humanity.The film asks questions about fate and reality. It is influenced by philosophical ideas from people like Plato. It also reminds me of 1984 during the torture scene when O'Brien tells Winston that the party can alter history and reality with ease. I think as long as you are fairly clever and read a little then you would understand it easily enough. The Matrix is also influenced by Postmodernism where reality and images can be alter and are very influential, but if you know this then you yourself and change the world. It can also be seen as a criticism of science and machinery going too far. The film is also very popular with the cyberpunk sub-culture.This is a great film, but avoid the sequels like the plague, especially the Matrix Revolutions.
To make a good sports film you need a top class director, talented actors, and a theme that is more then the sport. Invictus is a film with ambitions of not just telling the story about how South Africa won the Rugby World Cup in 1995, but also about the early days of Nelson Mandala's presidency and the importance of the events for the new South Africa.In 1994, Nelson Mandala (Morgan Freeman) is elected to be president of South Africa. Mandala starts a reconciliation process, after members of former Apartheid government to remain in their jobs if they wanted to. He also brought in members of the Apartheid security services to act as his bodyguards with his ANC bodyguards. Despite these efforts and his popularity, he still needs to find of uniting Black people who do not want Mandala to sell out and ensure he can provide on issues like crime, housing and social cares, whilst to reassure the White population that he isn't going to attack them and wants them to be a part of the new South Africa, and wants them to contribute. Mandala sees the best way to unite the nation is by sport, a weapon that was used against the Apartheid government with a boycott. South Africa had been picked to host the Rugby World Cup. But the South African rugby team, the Springbok, are unfit, lack experience and lack support of the Black population. They are calls to rename, and change the colours of the Springbok. But Mandala prevents this, and he asks the team's captain François Pienaar (Matt Damon) to inspire his team.This is two films in one, a political film/bio-pic about Mandala trying to change South Africa and avoid either one race dominating the other, and of course a sport film about how an underdog defincing the odds. It took great skill by the screenwriter Anthony Peckham and the director Clint Eastwood. The political story is the most interesting aspect, with Mandala doing a forgive and forget reconciliation process, similar to Konrad Adenauer in West Germany after the Second World War. The ideas is for successful transition a government then you need to keep the same structure and allow professional civil servants to remind in their positions. Compare this to Post war Iraq where all the government system was dismantled, and all Ba'ath party members were executed from system, and helping turn that nation into right royal mess. There is also a financial reason why Mandala wanted to win over the whites, because they controlled the purse strings of South Africa, and also control the police and army. Mandala is shown to be a very intelligent man, who calmly argues his case and goes against easy political populism because he wants to improve South Africa for the long team. But he is also a man with family troubles and health issues, but wants to do the best for his country. The World Cup story is about how the underdogs of the whole tournament won, beating the likes of France and Australia. Pienaar and Mandala have to lead the team both on and off the field against tough competition. Their efforts help unite the nation. This is a cleaver film that tells this story. Fans of political films will like it. Fans of rugby will like it.As well as the story, there are two great leads, Morgan Freeman and Matt Damon. Morgan Freeman is the only Hollywood actor who could Mandala, having both the look, and the acting talent. He plays Mandala as an intelligent, insightful man who is committed on improving his nation. He is quick witted, and they is a tragedy about his family problems. Freeman does do the Mandala voice well most of the time, but there are some moments where his voices slips into sounding like Red from the Shawshank Redemption. Matt Damon also does a good job playing a man who is less insightful, but a good sportsman and a good leader. He is one of the few White South Africans who isn't hostile to Mandala's presidency. Matt Damon builds up really well to play a professional rugby player, and does a believable South African accent. It's a shame there wasn't more of him in the film.Clint Eastwood is obviously one of the best directors in Hollywood, having directed films like Unforgiven and Letter from Iwo Jima. But I think his direction of this film would be no different to any decent director, particularly the political scenes. But the rugby scenes are very good, from feeling like you are either in the stadium, watching from the stands, to being in the heart of the action. For an American Eastwood has a good understanding of the sport. I also liked that he casted former Bath player Zak Feaunati as Jonah Lomu.Whilst the film is a very solid piece of work and people will enjoy it, there are some minor criticisms. The antagonism between the black and white bodyguards felt too staged, too Hollywood. It should have been less arguments, but more bitter. There also the Hollywood cliché of the guards overcoming their dislike for each other, playing rugby and again feeling staged. They were also some other moments that are hard to believe like a black boy listening to the World Cup final with the police on their car radio. Mandala also seemed a bit too obsessed with Rugby, seeming like he didn't govern on other important issues, and also skirted over issues like Mandala health and family problems. The film was also ignoring that there are still problems with South African sports, with rugby and cricket being played mostly by white people, whilst football (or Soccer to my North American friends) is seen as the black people's sport.This is a good, entertaining film, with two good leads who deserve their Oscars nods, but it's not Clint Eastwood at his very best.
The War Game is a very important what-if documentary. It was banned in Britain until 1985. It is the best what-if documentary I have ever seen and it is a very scary experience. The film shows what would have happened if Britain suffered a nuclear attack and how local authorities and the emergency services would have dealt with it. It doesn't show how the central government would have been handled it and it focuses on the ground level. Firefighters struggling to deal with fires caused, to a child going blind because of the flash, to a the aftermath showing food riots and longterm illnesses. As well as showing these experiences and playing it like it was really happening, the documentary also gives people facts and statistics about government planning for a nuclear attack. This documentary is very well done doesn't overplay things like some other films would have done. It shows how horrible a nuclear attack would have been and you can't watch it without a scenes of shook and sorrow. It is a very good thing and I think it still has a great impact, but I can imagine that it must have been very shocking in the 60s and 70s. You need a strong stomach to watch this film but it is worth it, especially if you like what-if scenarios.
Akira Kurosawa is known as one of the best directors ever to work in film and he was particularly well known for his work in the Samurai genre. Many of his films were influenced by Western and in turn some of his films were remade as Western. But with Throne of Blood he turned to the Shakespeare and made a Japanese version of Macbeth.In a province of Feudal Japan Washizu (Taketoki Washizu) and Miki (Minoru Chiaki) defeat rebels against all the odds and are promoted with new lands. But they meet a Witch (Chieko Naniwa) who prophesise that Washizu would become the Lord of Cobweb Castle and Miki's son would succeed. Despite Washizu being happy with his new lands, his wife, Asaji (Isuzu Yamada) convinces Washizu to fulfil the prophecy by killing Lord Tsuzuki (Hiroshi Tachikawa).Besides from the Japanese setting and some changes to the text, Throne of Blood is a fairly loyal adaptation of Macbeth and keeps the themes of the source material. Throughout there is the theme of corruption and the seeking of power. There is of course corruption of Washizu by his wife who seeks power, leading to Washizu's personal corrupt, guilt and madness. But there is also an undercurrent of corruption and rebellion with Lord Tsuzuki also being a usurper and in Washizu's new lands where he is living in the shadow of the previous rebel. We see that Washizu is a good man who ends up descending into evil and it is a tragedy.As well as the personal corruption we do get an occasional look at the wider effects on the land as we follow some of Washizu's soldiers, we see that land prosper when Washizu follows that prophecy and falls into darkness when he defies the prophecy. This is play about destiny and following the social order, that if someone seizes power then accepting the natural order of live. This is of course because the original play was set in Medieval Scotland and it was written to welcome James I to the English throne.Throne of Blood has some great black-and-white cinematography as it soaks us into the misty mountain landscape of Japan, providing atmosphere and symbolising whether the land is in a good or bad state. There is also fine music from Masaru Sato as he gives us a percussion heavy soundtrack. And Kurosawa's editing was great at showing the flow of time as well as using tricks to add to the supernatural elements where people or figures disappear.Throne of Blood is a film that inkeeping with the tone and themes of the source material and an excellent adaptation of the play as it takes to a new settling without the need to modernise it.
A Prophet has hit the world of cinema with massive critical acclaim, winning the Cannes Grand Prix and the London Festival, and the favourite to win the Oscar for best Foreign Language film (though the Acamedy have gotten that award wrong many times before).Malik El Djebena (Tahar Rahim), is a 19-year-old man sent to prison for six years. He tries to keep his head down. But he is forced into the murky world of prison crime when Ceser and the Unione Corse (Corsican mafia) tell him to kill an follow Arab prisoner, and if Malik doesn't they would kill him. The Corsicans control the guards, so Malik has no place to run. After the brutal murder the Corsicans protect Malik, but he stuck in the middle, because the Arabs and Muslims see Malik as a traitor whilst the Corsican treat him as a lower class citizen. Malik's only hope is his friendship with Ryad (Adel Bencherif), who gets Malik to go prison classes and improve his education. The government introduce a new policy to repatriate Corsican prisoners. This forces Ceser and Malik closer together. Ceser helps Malik to get day release, but makes the young man to perform his dirty work on the outside. But is also given the chance to form his own crime empire.A Prophet has a mix of social realism, a trait of British cinema, with reminders of the great HBO show Oz, and has arty, surreal moments more common with French cinema. The director Jacques Audiard effectively mixes these elements and makes a fine film. People have looked for politically meanings within the film, seeing it as a commentary of the treatment of Muslims with French society. There are those ideas where Muslims are seen as lower class citizens by some elements of French society. But the film reminded me of American prison films and television programme, show prison live is very brutal and the inmates group together around racial and religious lines. The film also tackles the fine line between a criminal's attempts to reform and the pull towards darker or more organised crimes. The film shows the element of guilt within Malik's mind and how he is forced to work with the Corsicans. The film also takes great care to show someone could run a crime empire whilst still in prison, an interesting element in my opinion.The film has some good acting throughout. There are a wide range of complex characters, with complex issues, which are well handled by the actors and by Audiard. Audiard also show a very violence, brutal world of what prison and the underworld is like.Audiard uses a slow burning type of storytelling, which is effective for the most part. But some elements felt like they went on too long, which is never a good thing.Still, a worthy watch.
RoboCop is considered one of the best action sci-fi films of the 1980s, a dark, satirical film from the Dutch master of sci-fi action Paul Verhoeven.In the future Detroit is a crime infested city with gangs running wild and the police struggling to cope, made even worst when a private company, Omni Consumer Products (OCP) buy the Detroit police force. OCP are looking for ways to make the police more effective by using robotic police enforcers and a middle level executive, Bob Morton (Miguel Ferrer) proposes the RoboCop project.On the front line Alex Murphy (Paul Weller) is a police officer transferred to central Detroit, the most dangerous precinct in the area. When he gets fatally and brutally shot on his first day of duty he becomes a prime candidate to become RoboCop, the ultimate law enforcer. But as RoboCop Alex starts to regain his memories and sets out to find his wife and son and find the men who destroyed his life.RoboCop is a gloriously violent film that Verhoeven is expert at providing this over the top style with limbs getting blown off and massive bullet holes blown into people. There are solid action sequences throughout, particularly the shoot outs and car chases. Verhoeven knows how to make it the action compelling, even though on the surface RoboCop seems invincible and character seeming physically slow. For the time RoboCop had excellent special effects, using physical effects like the costume and the charm of seeing stop motion effects.One of the key elements to why people love RoboCop is the comedy, dark humour and satire. This is mainly shown at the looks of the corporate world with a multi-national company particularly privatising all public services, including services that should not be run for profit. There are digs at the corporate culture of the 80s of backstabbing, drug taking and basically only caring about profit when older businessmen do at least care about their products and consumers. This is certainly a criticism of Reganism and Thatcherism and the idea of business being a left to their own devices. There are also broader satires in the form of adverts and news reports, tackling American militarism, consumerism and attacked the idea of a Star Wars laser system.There are even modern comparisons (as of 2013) you can put to the film because many American cities, including Detroit, have declared bankruptcy or on the edge of bankruptcy. There are many cities in Mid- West of America suffering from industrial and urban decline, population decline, underfunded public services and social issues like poverty and crime, leading to a vicious circle. RoboCop can act as a commentary on these themes.One of the other key parts to the film is RoboCop finding his humanity and discovering his past, giving the film more heart and making you care more for Murphy as his life is robbed from him and more then just a bad ass crime fighter. Weller actually had a different role of someone regain his emotions and life, made tougher due to the character having a helmet covering most of his face. Weller puts it off and he had an excellent supporting cast, from Nancy Allen as a tough as nails cop who realises who RoboCop really is, Ronny Cox and Kurtwood Smith as the villains and Ferrer as a typical young highflyer in 80s culture.RoboCop is a product and commentary of its time but it is still an entertaining action film with substance, something Verhoeven does really well and it is a shame that R-rated sci-fi and action film are made as much as they use to.
1976 was a great year for film: it was the year that saw the release of Taxi Driver, All the President's Men, Rocky, The Omen and Assault on Precinct 13. Network is amongst them and the 49th Academy Awards were one of the most tightly contested ever.The UBS network is a struggling TV company and it's News division has low rating. The anchor of the seven o'clock news, Howard Beale (Peter Finch), is sacked because of the falling rating and goes live on air to say he going to kill himself live on air in two weeks. The rating sky-rocket and Beale is given a free-reign to rant about anything he wants, but his best friend Max Schumacher (William Holden) quits when he see the company are exploiting him because of his descent into madness. Within the upper of epsilons they only care is profit and ratings, with the President of the network, Frank Hackett (Robert Duvall) and Head of Programming, Diana Christensen (Faye Dunaway) leading the charge. They turn the news into a showcase for the "Mad Prophet" and turn into a circus. At the same time Diana starts to develop more edgy programming, include a program about revolutionary terrorist group and embarks on an affair with Max.Paddy Chayefsky writes a really clever screenplay about the battle between the management of program makers and the owners of media outlets only care about profit and ratings. Program makers want to have independence, owners care about advertisement and sponsorship. They turn news from being an important institute and public responsibility to something cheap and commercial. It is still an issue now with the idea of tabloidisation and the decline of Chinese Walls (where the editorship and ownership are meant to be separate from each other). Network would be even more poignant because the nature of television today is looking to make cheap reality shows looking for different types of people (e.g. a open homosexual and a homophobe) just so they could exploit an easy conflict. There is no intelligent in this type of TV and ownership looks for a easy profit and shock rather then quality, which Diana and Hackett represented.The acting is great, particular from Finch, Holden and Duvell. Chayefsky wrote a very witty script with great: but the actors made it even better by playing their roles absolutely seriously, they don't know they are funny. Finch is really believable as a man descending into madness and being used. He certainly did deserve an Oscar nod, but I do think Robert De Niro and Holden were very deserving to win as well. Duvell is an actor I generally really like and he was effective as a corporate man who only cares about profit. Dunaway's character is intelligent but cold character, always looking for ways to increase ratings regardless of ethics or taste, like getting a psychic to predict the news and treat news like it was entertainment.Sidney Lumet is a great director, he knows how to handle drama and made sure that Network was a fast, well pace film with no moments of boredom. He was able to mix the drama with the witty lines whilst ensuring the themes about the media are in full view. Lumet ensures that Network is a well crafted drama with comedy, a great satire.
The 'Days of Future Past' storyline is one of the most famous and celebrated story arcs in the X-Men series, being adapted twice in cartoons. Now thanks to Bryan Singer, the storyline has been given the cinematic treatment and it is one of the best X-Men films so far.In the future, giant robots known as Sentinels have taken over the world, holding humans in prison camps and hunting the remaining mutants. The Sentinels are able to absorb and counter mutant powers and are seemingly unstoppable. Kitty Pryde (Ellen Page) has developed the power to send people's minds back in time to their younger bodies. The only hope for both humanity and mutant-kind is send Wolverine (Hugh Jackman) back in time to 1973 to prevent the war from ever happening, being the only mutant to survive the process as a team of mutants hold protect the pair.In 1973 Wolverine has to stop Raven Darkholme/Mystique (Jennifer Lawrence) from assassinating the scientist Bolivar Trask (Peter Dinklage), the creator of the Sentinels and a man who had been experimenting on mutants. His death would trigger the war and Mystique's capture would lead to a breakthrough that makes the Sentinels so dangerous. Wolverine has to reignite a disillusioned Charles Xavier (James McAvoy) who has been suppressing his powers and form a team of mutants to stop Mystique.After 11 year absence from the director's chair Singer comes back to the series he has been synonymous with and he brings his all his strengths while also keeping the best aspects of X-Men: First Class. X-Men: Days of Future Past serves as sequel to the original trilogy, a sequel to X-Men: First Class and untangles the confusing mess that has become of the franchise's continuity. Singer keeps his darker, more serious approach, particularly for the bleak future to be created and adjusts to the blend of history and sci-fi that worked so well in X-Men: First Class. The previous films in the series are reference in some way, particular X2: X-Men United and X-Men: First Class and a few wider references for comic book fans to be excited about. X-Men Origins: Wolverine is noticeable with the absences of clips and ignores its events.Singer's tone is a little lighter and humorous compared to his previous X-Men films when the events go into the 70s. Yet there is still emotional weight and character development that has been the strength of the best of the X-Men films as characters interact, clash and debate. One of the central themes is the clash of ideologues between Xavier and Magneto, debating how humanity will treat them and battling for Mystique's soul; made even more important because of their history in the previous film and Xavier being at his lowest ebb.Simon Kinberg, the writer of X-Men: The Last Stand returns to the series, writing one of his best screenplays (considering his filmography, that was not hard). Kinberg and Singer also look at the old time travel theme of fate and destiny, asking if the war with Sentinels is inevitable, that the cause of history cannot be changed. This is similar to The Terminator series, particularly Terminator 2: Judgement, and people can easily make that connection: but it should be noted that the comic storyline started in 1981 and The Terminator was released in 1984. The future of X-Men: Days of Future Past shares some visual cues from the likes of The Terminator and The Matrix, the destroyed cities, the dark skies and the rounding up of people. x-men days of future past - wolverines orgasm face One of the most clever inventions of the film is the use of psychics powers to time travel, avoiding the paradox of someone meeting themselves and allows for two timelines going on symmetrically which brings in a ticking time bomb element to the story. The use of psychic powers also gives the characters from different time period to communicate.The easy solution would have been Xavier could have read Wolverine's mind and he sees he was telling the truth. This is well explained by Xavier falling into a depression and suppressing his powers, giving him an arc of finding his faith and belief again.As you would want and expect from a summer superhero film X-Men: Day of Future Past has strong action sequences and this film has some of the best special effect of the franchise. The best are the sequences in the future as the mutants have to fight against an impossible enemy and the use of the Sentinels having adaptation powers makes them an even more potent threat. A similar idea was used in the Wolverine and The X-Men cartoon. Singer brings in more slo-mo to his action sequences, particularly for Quicksilver (Even Peters) when he runs and slows down time.X-Men: Days of Future Past has a large cast with younger and older versions of appearing and new characters being introduced. Our favourites of Wolverine, the older and younger versions of Xavier and Magneto, Mystique and Beast (Nicholas Hoult) are the characters who have the most screen time and perfectly played by their respective actors. The newer mutants played by actors like Omar Sy and Fan Bingbing get the short straw of screen time but they do have chance to shine in the action scenes. Dinklage is always a welcome presence on screen and Michael Fassbender shines once again as he shows off Magneto's crueler, more ruthless side. And Peters does what he is meant to be: he is a 'pain in the arse'.X-Men: Days of Future Past combines the best aspects of the first two X-Men films and X-Men: First Class to give fans of the film series and the franchise as a whole, an excellent X-Men experience.Please visit www.entertainmentfuse.com
We are thrust once again into the world of the Marvel Cinematic Universe and fully into the realm of Asgard with the sequel to 2011's Thor, a film that is unashamed of it mash up of fantasy and sci-fi.Thousands of years ago, the Dark Elves, led by Malekith the Accursed (Christopher Eccleston) tried to bring the universe back to a state of darkness, with a weapon known as the Aether, during a rare alignment of all the Nine Realms. But Malekith is stopped by Bor (Tony Curran) and the armies of Asgard.After the events of The Avengers, Loki has been taken to the prisons of Asgard, only to avoid a death sentence by the grace of his mother, Frigga (Rene Russo) as Thor (Chris Hemsworth) and his friends try to bring peace to the Nine Realms. Soon, Thor is drawn back to Earth when Jane Foster (Natalie Portman) makes a discovery of a strange an anomaly in London. Thor takes Jane to Asgard where the realm the Dark Elves attack with the fabric of reality at stake.The filmmakers of Thor: The Dark World go for the approach that bigger is better. There is more action, larger stakes, lots of fantasy and plenty of battles. TV director Alan Taylor, best known for his work on Game of Thrones shows great confidence with transition to film. The action is bigger and a improvement upon the first film, getting massive battles and fights and more regular. Audiences can easily geek out as it blends medieval weaponry, magic and laser battles.Thor: The Dark World goes the whole hog with its blend of sci-fi and fantasy, from a Lord of the Rings style opening, the gravity anomaly in London looking like something from a Doctor Who episode and the use of spaceships. It is a film that is completely unashamed about its comic book origins and 10-year-old boys and the 10-year-old inside all of us will love it.The events on Earth and Asgard are juxtaposed by two different styles. The action in Asgard is treated seriously with the full embraced of the fantasy, whilst the Earth scenes are much more light hearted. Kat Dennings continues to be the comic relief and this time she has comedy with her own intern played by Jonathan Howard and Stellan Skarsgård's Dr Selvig is relegated to running around Stonehenge naked and being locked into mental hospital.Taylor does put his stamp all over Thor: The Dark World, making a visually darker film by using dark cinematography and the art direction for Asgard is clearly influenced by Game of Thrones. Asgard has more of grounded medieval look in Thor: The Dark World then the grand look of Kenneth Branagh's film.Thor: The Dark World is a strong continuation of the Thor series and this is illustrated with the relationship between Thor and Loki. The characters have learned from each other and their experience and the relationship has evolved into one of banter between the brothers. Loki continues to be the most interesting villain in the Marvel Cinematic Universe and shows growth with his tragedy and pain.Former Doctor Who star Christopher Eccleston took on the villain and he does the job well, giving a professional performance as Malekith, He may not have the depth of Loki and his motivations are stock, but he does a great job. Adewale Akinnuoye-Agbaje and his large stature as Kurse gave Thor a big physical challenge that he needed and leads to a massive fight.Thor: The Dark World is far from deep or meaningful, but it's a fun ride and an entertaining fantasy adventure that raises improves on the action level and strong follow-up to the series.Please visit www.entertainmentfuse.com
Tokyo Sonata tells the story of a changing Japanese economy, social culture and employment culture and it effects on family. Here it is excellently told by Kiyoshi Kurosawa (surprisingly no relation to the great Akira Kurosawa).Ryûhei Sasaki (Teruyuki Kagawa) is a 46-year-old career man living in an industrial area of Tokyo with his family. Early on he looses his job when his department is out sourced to China, and he tries to hire the fact from his wife and children. Ryûhei tries to act normal whilst he spends his day at an employment agency, and waiting in the park with other unemployed people for free food. He meets a former schoolfriend, Kurosu (Kanji Tsuda), who also lost his job and hides the fact from his family. Kurosu gives Ryûhei tips on how to keep the charade, but the stress becomes too great on both men. Ryûhei slowly becomes more bitter and authoritarian at home. Ryûhei's family also suffer their own problems. His youngest son Kenji (Inowaki Kai) has problems in school, coming into conflict with one of his teachers, but he discovers his love and talent for the piano. He secretly takes lessons and his teacher wants him to audition for a music school, but this goes again his father's wishes in a Billy Elliot type sub-plot. Ryûhei older son Takashi (Yû Koyanagi) is more distance from his father, do small jobs, but he plans joining the American military. But again, Ryûhei forbids it, despite Takashi being old enough to make his own decision.Kiyoshi Kurosawa tells a low-key, but compelling story. He often uses wide shot, giving the audience the feeling like a bystander in these people's lives. Using wide shot forces allows the actors to put real power in their performances with long continuous shots and does not allow the audience to get distracted by continuous editing. Kurosawa is able keep the film going with a fast pace and compelling despite it's low key subject matter. Kurosawa also casted some superb actors who are all wondering in their performances in this film. This is also a film telling some interesting aspects of Japanese culture. The Japanese economy is changing: the notion that someone could have a job for life is disappearing, and that the Japanese economy is suffering the same issues as Anglo-Saxon style economies. The film also acts as a commentary about the Japanese family, where it is portrayed in an old-fashion way, the man runs the house and controls the money, but this system is changing, with the whole family rebelling, and with other Japanese people having a more enlightened view. The third theme is also shown through Takashi about a changing view of America in Japan. The Japanese have in the past had a hostile view to the American military presence in Japan, with incidents like the 1995 Okinawan rape incident, but a younger generation haven't had to suffer this, and the Japanese view of military action is also changing. This film will give you a lot to think about.Despite these good plots this film is far from perfect. By the end of the second and the beginning of the third act the plot starts to fall apart with some unrealistic events, which ruins the film overall. However Tokyo Sonata is a worthy film, showing that Japanese cinema is one of the best in the world. It also shows that Japanese cinema is more then just anime and violence manga adaptions like Battle Royale, which is also very very good.
After hitting the world with The Sixth Sense M. Night Shyamalan was considered on of the hottest directors around. He got himself Oscar nominations and was considered to direct Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone. His next project was Unbreakable which did fairly well critically, but not so successful at the box-office. His follow-up was Signs, which won critically acclaim, and is a film I like, but has split film fans into lovers and haters. After all that Shyamalan started going down. His next film The Village was not so successful, critically or commercially, before really loosing the plot when making Lady in the Water and The Happening.The Village is set in a small rural community at the turn of the century. It is run by a good of village elders, including Edward Walker (William Hurt), Alice Hunt (Sigourney Weaver) and August Nicholson (Brendan Gleeson). It seems to function like early colonial towns in America, with town meetings to decide issues. However, this is no ordinary town: in the woods are strange creatures that could attack the village. Anything red is bury because it's considered the bad colour, whilst yellow is the colour of protection. There is a truce between the village and the creature, but something ends up attacking and killing some animals. One of the younger members of the community, Lucius Hunt (Joaquin Phoenix) offers to risk his life to get medicine from the nearest town. He would have to walk through the forest to do this. He believes that the creatures wouldn't attack him because of his noble intentions. But the elders refuse. Lucius also rekindles his friendship with Ivy Walker (Bryce Dallas Howard), a blind woman and daughter of Edward. They start to fall for each other and end up getting engaged. However, Lucius gets stabbed, and Ivy ends up having to leave the village to get medicine for him.The Village was marketed as an interesting horror film, but has a was really a film about social control. The social control idea by itself is interesting, but the way it was handle should have been a lot better. I think it would have made a better film as a proper horror film in a period settling. It could have been very scary and effective with a proper fresh twist. But Shyamalan did not do this. Shyamalan is a director who is famous for having a twist in his films. I don't mind that, but if you see that ended up trying to make a more grounded film at the end it ends up making the film fall of plot holes. This twist doesn't work like it did with the Sixth Sense. The writing is the problem, but Shyamalan's direction is decent. He's not perfect but there are some good shots in the film.The film's main strength is the cast. Bryce Dallas Howard has a strong debut and is a pretty interesting character. Joaquin Phoenix and Adrian Brody are both normally good in their films and they don't break that trend here. William Hurt was a little hit and miss, but he does have a really good moment when arguing with the Elders. However Sigourney Weaver offers a weak performance compared to what she usually does, and Brendan Gleeson's (who I normally like) character may as well not have been in the film.There are some interesting ideas and decent scenes, but it should have been a lot better.
Mark Millar whom started out in the British Comic Book industry, writing for 2000AD and Sonic the Comic has become one of the biggest comic book writers around, writing for Marvel and DC with major characters like Spider-man, X-Men, Wolverine and Superman, before being able to create his own comics. His first film adaptation was the weak, dumbed down version of the Matrix, Wanted: but luckily Kick-Ass is a lot better.Dave Lizewski (Aaron Johnson) is a typical New York teenager, who is a comic-book fan, and not in any particular group in High School. He is ignored by girls, including Katie (Lyndsy Fonseca), the girl he fancies. Dave however fantasises about what it would be like to be a superhero and he makes an effort to make it happen. After his first attempt at vigilante justice Dave ends up having a big accident and his nerve endings are damage. But this gives him a high pain threshold and after being videotaped fighting three men at once Dave becomes a internet sensation and his alter-ego, Kick-Ass is born. But Dave as Kick-Ass gets in over his head when he meets two real heroes, Big Daddy (Nicholas Cage), and his young girl Hit-Girl (Chloe Moretz), a brilliant martial artist and skilled assassin. Big Daddy sets out to bring down the crime lord Frank D'Amico (Mark Strong), taking down his organisation from the bottom up. As Kick-Ass Dave is brought into their violence world. As well as these superhero actives Dave has to hide his identity, whilst using his fame in the internet age to help people out through Myspace. He also finally get's Katie's attentions, but for all the wrong reasons.The director Matthew Vaughn had been touted to direct comic book conversions before. He was offered the chance to do X-Men: The Last Stand but left because of the rushed production and weak script, and missed out on directing Thor when his script turned out would have cost too much. He has proved to be a skilled director, having done the great gangster film Layer Cake and the fun fantasy romp Stardust. With Kick-Ass he is able to make a stylist, colourful comic-book conversion. It is fast-paced, action-packed, violence and very funny throughout. Vaughn was able to make a live action comic, with stylist vision trick, compared to Ang Lee who tried and failed with Hulk. An excellent film in vain of Frank Miller films like Sin City and 300. Vaughn shows how an action sequence should be directed, with Hit-Girl and her wide range of weapons making excellent viewing. Vaughn made the film like a violence parody of Spider-man, following similar plot elements, scenes like Dave designing his costume, having a similar score and basically plays on wider superhero conventions. But this was a parody which pays tribute and respects the genre it's lampooning, not aiming for cheap laughs.Aaron Johnson offers an excellent performance as Dave/Kick-Ass. He is like Tobey Maguire's Peter Parker, going through similar issues, using a voice-over throughout the film, and even sounds like Maguire. He is an actor with a bright future ahead of him. Vaughn is able to assemble a good supporting cast. Nicholas Cage is a known superhero fan and he missed out playing both Iron Man and Superman in the past. He is excellent as the man of action as Big Daddy, and is a deranged but loving father. He is one an important quest to take down Frank D'Amico. Mark Strong has been making headway in Hollywood recently, being in films like Body of Lies and Sherlock Holmes. He plays an effective villain, a gangster slowly becoming more violence and erratic because of the Kick-Ass phenomenon. He too is a deranged and loving father despite his business. But the real star out of the supporting actors is Chloe Moretz as the foul month 11-year-old assassin who is hard as nails, but also at times a sweet-natured girl and it is wonderfully played when the two characteristics are compared. She is one of the most fun characters in a film this year.Kick-Ass is not perfect, and it will not cater to everyone's tastes, but it is easily one of the most fun films of 2010.
Based on a Pulitzer Prize winning by Robert Penn Warren, All the King's Men has a lot going for it. For anyone who is interested in politics and governing then you will like this film, but there is also the themes about how power and wanting power corrupts and whether a bad man can do good.Jack Burden (John Ireland) is a reporter assigned to cover the election for county treasurer in the rural south (Louisiana in all but name), particularly focused on Willie Stark (Broderick Crawford). Willie is a honest man campaigning to against local corruption but harassed by the local establishment. When he is proved right after a tragic school accident Willie becomes a political powerful and Jack helps his campaign for Governor, from being a patsy to independent candidate and winning the election. But Willie ends up making deals with the people who he campaigned against and becomes more like the people he hated, running campaigns of intimidation and looking for absolute power. But he also invests in the state, building roads, schools and hospitals for the people.As stated the main theme of the film is that power corrupts with how a idealistic man becomes a part of a system, being no different to the previous people. Robert Rossen sets to show this with his direction and writing both the personal drama of how Willie changes and his quest for power and relationships with people to the affects of his policies have a positive affect on the people of the state. Rossen shows how corrupt people effective subvert democracy and freedom of the press at all levels, in what is meant to be the most democratic country in the world, how people or elites who have power are not willing to give it up. All the King's Men not only shows how politics and it's corrupting affects, Rossen shows the person relations, particularly Jack's idealistic believe in Willie having seen him in his early days and see believing in him even when he see what he has done.The acting is excellent throughout the film, with Crawford being the best as the idealistic politician. He spoke with real charisma and was believable, giving real conviction of the role, from being a good man to being a corrupt individual. His voice reminded me of Sam Douglas as Scott Shelby in Heavy Rain. Ireland too is very good, playing a man who wants to believe in something, who has a hostile relationship with his step-dad and hate his own background. Many of the supporting characters well rounded and ably performed.Rossen was a very competent, technical director, giving the audience some good set pieces, from the winning speech and the car clash, to wide shots and few cuts being used which was common for the time. With the amount of material in the film Rossen was able to tell it in a entertaining, fast-paced, tort film.
When the original Shrek film came out in 2001 it was seen as a revolution, an animated film that looked pretty realistic (realistic in the context a fairy tale setting), a film that was funny, action packed, able to appeal to adults as well as children and most importantly, challenge Pixar's domination when making CGI animated films. But slowly Dreamworks and the Shrek series itself became a shadow of its former self, whilst Shrek 2 was just as good as Shrek but they also made slowly made weaker films like Flushed Away, Shark Tale, Bee Movie and Shrek the Third. But Shrek Forever After is better then Shrek the Third.Starting with a prologue the magical conman Rumpelstilskin (Walt Dohrn) very nearly got his hands on the crown of Far Far Away, when Shrek (Mike Myers) saves Princess Fiona (Cameron Diaz) and ends up ruining Rumpelstiltskin. Years later it seems that Shrek and Fiona are living a perfect live with their children in the swamp but slowly Shrek gets bore of the routine and being a celebrity. He longs for the glories days of being a true ogre, feared and ends up making a deal with Rumpelstilskin. But of course Rumpelstilskin tricks our hero into a world where he is not born, that Rumpelstilskin is king with witches as his enforcers and ogres are hunted. None of Shrek's friends recognises him and Fiona is leading the resistance. There is only one way to break the curse, true love's kiss.The basic plot is the same as A Wonderful Life, a message about be careful of wish for and that the grass always seems greener on the other side. It is a story that has been done to death in both film and television, particularly in children's programs. But it also serves as a way to get round the fact that Shrek is meant to be a family man and should be content with his happily ever after.Whilst the plot is rudimentary Shrek Forever After is better then Shrek the Third. It is a faster paced film, the jokes are better and its most impressive feature is the action. Shrek has quite a few fights with the Witches who have some really good weapons, like the skull chains and the poison apple gas grenade (a little play on fairy tales, particularly Snow White). On of the keys to Shrek has been the pop-culture reference, but it went stupid by the third film with the medieval school. Likely Shrek Forever After tones it down a bit (since it has done everything possible) with the only major twists being the witches' nightclub and a few film reference, like the Gingerbread Man in a Gladiator parody. The best jokes involve my favourite character Puss in Boots, who turned into a flabby tabby and pampered cat, as he declined from a deadly assassin to a house pet. He has the best lines and the physical humour. You got to love the little guy. Some of the comedy did not work, like the ogre dancing and Shrek's attempts to woo Fiona. But at least the film was more focused then Shrek the Third and Rumpelstilskin is a better villain then Prince Charming, but still not as good or interesting as the villains in the first two films.Like the previous films the animation is crisp, looks realistic and great following movements. Director Mike Mitchell is a live action director, but he adapted to animation and provided family friendly action scenes. There was some dodgy moments, like a witch prostitute (because that what children's films need, sex workers). Mitchell ensured that there was a emotional heart to the film, Shrek trying to woo back Fiona, something lacking in the third film.Shrek Forever After is meant to be the last film of series, but I don't believe it. We all know how Hollywood works, keep making films until the money runs dry. We already got a Puss in Boots spin-off on the way.
Winning an Oscar is normally a golden ticket for a director to make any film their want. Danny Boyle certainly used his Oscar winning status to its full advantage and made sure a project he wanted to make for a while was commissioned.127 Hours is the true story about Aron Ralston (James Franco), a 27-year-old climber and adventurer. In 2003 Aron goes off to Blue John Canyon to explore and have fun, meeting two young ladies on the way, Kristi (Kate Mara) and Megan (Amber Tamblyn). After they leave Aron ends up getting his arm trapped in a crack in the Earth and for the next 127 hours he has do everything he can to survive and tries to free his arm. As he does this he think about his love ones, his mum (Kate Burton), Dad (Treat Williams), sister and ex-girlfriend Rana (Clemence Posey) as he thinks about how selfish he has been and how no one will find him.Danny Boyle is a great director having made Trainspotting, 28 Days Later and Slumdog Millionaire. He has such a great visual style and he brings it to a film which most directors would struggle to make visual. Boyle uses some really great tricks, from the zooming in and out of canyons into underground pools or show the crack in the world. To expand the setting Boyle and the screenwriter Simon Beaufoy showed flashbacks and memories to make 127 Hours more then just a man talking to a camera and trying to get his arm free. We get to see Aron grow, being regretful and remorseful and that he is a resourceful but reckless man. James Franco does offer an excellent performance and we possibility get a Oscar nod.Boyle did give the film an almost documentary style because he uses places the camera in one position as people talk, keeps editing down to a minimum and uses hand held cameras that follow people and a small camcorder for when Aron leaves messages. But there is no rubbish shaky cam or zooming like there was with Paul Greengrass' Green Zone which looked like an amateur film. The cinematography by Enrique Chediak and Anthony Dod Mantle of the Utah was wonderful and shows a very strange and unique landscape. A.R. Rahman gives a great score and soundtrack to 127 Hours and Boyle uses the music to add to the build up in the film, like the bit of music that sounds like a heartbeat.Everyone who went to see the film knows that Aron Ralston had to amputate his own arm and Boyle was aware of what the audience do know. He plays on this, using the music and the playing and examining of the knife in anticipation of the coming event. This is a spoiler but I have to say it, the amputation scene was strong, brutal and powerful. Aron had to hack away with a small knife and you really felt the pain when he had to cut through a nerve ending. But I personally whined more when I saw Aron take out a contact lens (but that's because I have a slight phobia of eyeballs).Whilst 127 Hours was a good film, it was not great like some critics made out. I was a little under whelmed and for me the film felt a little hollow. Boyle still made a good film, but its not his best (that right goes to Trainspotting). I expect it will be nominated for some Oscars but it does not deserves to win Best Picture or Best Director (sorry Mr. Boyle).7.5 out of 10.
Wow is the one word reaction I had to Black Swan, a truly dark and surreal tale about the world of ballet from Darren Aronofsky.Nina Sayers (Natalie Portman) is a talented young ballerina who get her technique down perfectly, but has a very meek personality. She has a controlling mother (Barbara Hershey) who does not allow her daughter to grow up, with Nina ending up having a young personality and there is a possible history of self-harm. Nina is up for the role of a life time, playing both the White Swan and the Black Swan in Swan Lake. The ballet director Thomas (Vincent Cassel) believes Nina is perfect to play the White Swan but too nice to play the Black Swan. Despite this Nina is cast in the role, but she has to explore her dark side, having an affair with Thomas, have dark images of herself following her and herself bleeding and worrying about another dancer, Lily (Mila Kunis) wanting to replace her.Darren Aronofsky is of course a skilled director and after playing it safe with The Wrestler took a risk again with this ambitious film. Black Swan is a really crazy film, many thinks are going off in this film and it was a schizophrenic experience. Aronofsky has shown with both The Wrestler and Black Swan that he can take something that is light entertainment and turn into something dark and seedy. Aronofsky is not afraid to look at the darker side of life and what it would take to be a ballerina, discipline, staying thin (by any means possible), having affairs, etc and Aronofsky is able to mix dark fantasy with real life. I personally love Aronofsky's use of hand-held camera, giving Black Swan a more intense feeling, using close up and it was great when the camera spins around the actors when their dance. It gives the audience the feeling of what it is like to dance and being in the studio. As the film become more surreal it reminded me of David Lynch's Mulholland Drive, a film that become very confusing by the third act. A scene I really like is when Nina and Lily are in the club with a coloured strobe light, making the characters look like they pictures as they jerkily move when the light goes on and off. It is very much what it is like in a nightclub and the Chemical Brothers music was fitting.The acting in the film is great. Of course Portman is a talented actress and it is likely that she will get the Oscar, Jennifer Lawrence will be considered too young by the academy. I like how her character was pretty much like a 13-year-old girl who still needs to grow and get out of her shell. Kunis shows that will the right direction she can be a good actress (she was much better then to her role in The Book of Eli). She was a strange, bad girl, smoking, drinking, taking drugs and acting almost like a femme fatal. The story and relationship between Nina and Lily could have worked if the characters were teenagers, Nina being a naïve young girl being led astray by a more experience girl. Hershey too was good as Nina's mother, a woman using her daughter to live out her dreams and treating her as a doll, dressing her and controlling her life. The relationship is almost like Norman Bates the early years. This follows a long running theme in Afonosky, dysfunctional relationships between a parent and their child, but this time Nina's mum does love her, but goes about it the wrong way. Cassel is effectively creepy as a man who seduces dancers, touches them inappropriately, yet silver tongued.Clint Mansel is a great composer and he has worked with Aronofsky before. He gave Black Swan an incredible, booming score. He composes his own music with the music of Swan Lake to great affect and my God was it fantastic.But I do have a problem with the film and that is why the filmmakers did not know which direction they wanted to go. They did not know where to focus it as a grounded tale of a girl going mad, living in her mother's shadow, as a dark horror of someone going through metamorphosis, a tale of a girl being followed by someone trying to take own her live or any of the other themes and ideas in the film. Black Swan needed more focus.
The 90s were great time for big action films, with films like Terminator 2, the Bond films, The Rock, Con Air, the Die Hard films and many more being released. One of them was comedy-action-thriller True Lies, a loose remake of a French film helmed by the great James Cameron and led by his Terminator star Arnold Schwarzenegger.Harry Tasker (Schwarzenegger) is an American spy (despite having a thick Austrian accent) for a black ops agency investigating a terrorist organisation called Crimson Jihad with his team, Gib (Tom Arnold) and Faisal (Grant Heslov). Crimson Jihad, led by Aziz (Art Malik) is spectated of buying four Soviet nuclear weapons and plan to use them against the United States. But even worst for Harry is that finds out his wife Helen (Jamie Lee Curtis) might be having an affair with a used car salesman, Simon (Bill Paxton) who is pretending to be a spy.When I was younger I disliked True Lies, seeing it as an American attempt to make a Bond film. My opinion has soften and I see it for what is, a fun action-comedy. Its winning features are its action sequences and its quick pacing. It is never a dull film and Cameron is of course one of the best action directors around. There are plenty of fight scenes, shoots outs and chases. True Lies uses a combination of partial effects and excellent CGI for the time. The action is memorial, particular the first action sequence, the bathroom fight and chase in Washington D.C., the battle on the island and the highway chase. The Cameron was to make the action over the top, adding to the lighter, comic tone.Whilst True Lies works very well as an action film, the comedy is much weaker elements. There are some funs little jokes, but Cameron is naturally a more serious director. The worst offender of the humour comes from Tom Arnold who is not a funny comedian and his character came off as obnoxious more then the likable comic relief. At least Schwarzenegger has some one-liners and has the action chops, but of course he is not renounced for being the best actor.The other major problem is the detour the film takes when Harry stops his investigation into Crimson Jihad and follows his wife when he thinks she is having an affair. It was not funny and it led to a cruel, sadistic and creepy subplot as Harry uses a lot of government resources to follow his wife. It stops the film dead. The subplot should have been played different, from Harry trying to keep his secret identity from family or Helen finding Harry's identity by accident.Plot wise True Lies has a perfectly fine plot for a spy action-thriller for the time. Of course we have much more understanding of Islamic terrorism then pop culture did back in 1994. The plot was actually so similar to the plot the Bond series was going to use that they had to change it: but of it worked out for the best because we got a fun film with Arnie and one of the best Bond films with Goldeneye. Whilst I did compare True Lies to Bond there is enough differences to make True Lies its own film. There are some homages/parodies such the use of a gadget and Harry going to high society event (with the beginning being a clear reference to Goldfinger). If you enjoy the Mission Impossible films you should find enjoyment from True Lies.True Lies is a fun experience and is a fine addition to the high octane 90s action. Cameron and Schwarzenegger have better films in their filmography but True Lies is still good comfort viewing if you fancy an action fix. I would have liked to have seen a sequel made but sadly that is not going to happen now.
X-Men is my favourite comic book series, I have been a fan of the comic books and the animated series in the 90s and I was excited when I found out that they were making an X-Men film. I was round 14/15 at the time it was released and the only bad thing about my experience seeing the film was the popcorn (American can't make sweets to save their lives).X-Men is a wide ranging series which tackles a lot of plots and issues. It has been considered to be a metaplor for the civil rights movement in the 60s and the comics have tackled other issues like the role of the government, the AIDs virus and the Holocaust. There is also the issue that powers may be a curse rather then a blessing e.g. Rogue and Cyclops. There are also a number of characters and fractions which would have made the film difficult to make because there would have been no way to make the fans 100% happy.The plot of the film is in the world they are mutants, people with powers that can range from being psychic to changing your apparent to healing to controlling the weather. They are met with fear from the general public and they are calls in the US Senate for the Mutant Regisration Act, to get details of every mutant in the USA. Within the mutant community there are two major factors, the X-Men and the Brotherhood of Mutants. The X-Men, led by Charles Xavier, want to have harmonious relations with humanity whilst the Brotherhood, led by Erik Lehnsherr/Magento, believes that the human race would never accept Mutants and that a war is coming. In the middle of this are two mutants, Wolverine (Hugh Jackman) and Rogue (Anna Paqulin). Wolverine can not remember his past and lives a nomadic lifestyle and Rogue is a teenage runaway, who needly kills her boyfriend just by kissing him. Mangento wants Rogue so he can complete his scheme to turn the world's leaders in mutants.This film was not particular action packed; this was because the budget was $75 Million which is nothing special for a summer blockbuster, and the director was Bryan Singer, who's most famous film before was the Usual Suspects, a psychology crime thriller. He chose to focus on character development which was a good move. He also tackled the project as an outsider, he was not a fan of the comics, but I thought that was good because he was able to cut of the flak. He made the film into a realistic sci-fi film which could appeal to the fans and normal movie goers. He made a few jokes about some of the issues of the comics, like the codenames and the costumers. The film does tackles ideas like Wolverine's tortured past and his rivalry with Cyclops, Xavier's friendship with his rival Magneto, the human factor, Wolverine's need to protect children, the list goes on. The film also has a good international cast, Patrick Stewart, Sir Ian McKellon, Halle Berry, Famke Janssen, James Marsden and Anna Paquin. The film also made Hugh Jackman into an overnight star because before the film he was an Australian Stage actor and after it he became an A-lister and has a strong scene of loyalty to the franchise. To a lesser extent Rebecca Romjin has also become a major actress.The film isn't perfect, I would have liked to have seen more characters like Gambit and Beast, and the film did ignore Wolverine's and Sabretooth's hatred for each other and the fact that they have a past together. X-Men was an introduce to the film franchise, especially to people who do not know the comics.X-Men is a very good film, X-Men 2 is even better and X-Men 3 was one of my most biggest film disappointments. I would love to see Bryan Singer back in the director's chair and ignore the third film and do it the way he wants and the fans want.
Lethal Weapon 1 and 2 were both critical and commercial success and high points for the buddy cop genre. They helped set up the formula but by the third film ended up falling into it's own traps: making it the weakest the series.After years working together Sergeant Roger Murtaugh (Danny Glover) is eight days from retirement. But after messing up a bomb disposal, Murtaugh Sgt. Martin Riggs (Mel Gibson) are demoted to patrolmen where they stop a robbery of an armoured car. This leads them getting involved with an investigate led by tough cookie Internal Affairs officer Sgt. Lorna Cole (Rene Russo), investigating ex-officer Jack Travis (Stuart Wilson), selling automatic gun and armour-piercing bullets.There is a decent idea for a plot, corrupt cops selling powerful weapons from the police evidence. It was done in a realistic way in American Gangster where the police sold drugs to dealers. But Lethal Weapon 3 does take a more ridiculous route, with the main baddie just going into a police station to kill a guy and kidnapping a senior police officer. The film also falls into it's own clichés (which the Simpsons end up making fun), with Murtaugh taking more risks despite being on the edge of retirement, Murtaugh and Riggs being demoted, Riggs and Cole having a hostile relationship before having sex, more over the top action sequences and looking for the smallest excuse for an action sequence. The film's humour was weaker, with Gibson's Three Stooges stick getting old and Joe Pesci's performance as an obnoxious real estate agent was very obnoxious not funny (he is so much better playing sociopathic Mafia hit-man in Martin Scorsese films). The film's attempt to be dramatic also felt forced and the main villain, Travis lacked menace to the villains of the other Lethal Weapon films.But whilst there are weaknesses in the film, there are some merits. Russo was very convincing as a tough, kick-ass woman, and well, I enjoy seeing women beating up men. There is still good chemistry between Glover and Riggs and Richard Donner does know how to direct an action sequence. As stated there is a good basis for a plot, with a real issue about cop killer bullets. It is still a well made movie.Overall Lethal Weapon 3 is the weakest series, but it is still an okay film when watching it with the other three films.
Back in 1997 a small film made the name of two young actors, Matt Damon and Ben Affleck who were so frustrated about their lack of opportunities wrote their own screenplay so they could star in the film, earning them a Oscar win at the same time.Will Hunting (Damon) is genius with a troubled past. He is working as a janitor at M.I.T. when he solves a maths formula that is meant to challenge the best students at the university. Will is also on probation after he hit a cop. Mathematics professor Gerald Lambeau (Stellan Skarsgard) takes Will under his wing, seeing the potential in him to do whatever he wants and gets his friend Sean Maguire (Robin Williams) to counsel the young man. Will also meets Skylar (Minnie Driver), a British Harvard student and starts a relationship with her. But Will is his also his own worst enemy.Screenplay is really strong and you can see why Ben Affleck has become a respected director. It was a dialogue driven film that focuses on a character who is troubled, who has a tremendous give but is bitter towards people who had the wealth and luxury to go to university. He is also a man who does not know how lucky he is that people care about him and does not realise how lucky he is with his intelligence. There is a great cast who give authentic performances, Damon, Skarsgard, Williams (who won an Oscar for this role) and Driver in the main roles. There are not good guys or bad guys, they are shares of grey with all of them and the real antagonist is Will to himself. Skarsgard and Williams' characters have different approaches and views about Will but they both have his best interests at heart. Will starts off as a real jerk and I personally enjoyed it when Williams' character does get to give Will a telling off.Gus Van Sant could have made visually safe film but he was able to inject a style to the film, using hand-held cameras for long shots and panning shots and edited TV footage from a famous Red Sox game whilst Sean tells Will the story about how he met his wife. Van Sant to able to make sure all the different stories involving Will's life all get a fair amount of screenplay and it is easy to follow who is who and what is happening. He is actually better a mainstream director then when he makes indie flicks.There are a few scenes that do not work, particularly when Will sends his friend (Affleck) to be pretend to be him for a job interview which was played for humour but it was just felt out of place.Good Will Hunting is a compelling drama with a story worthy to tell. It is worth checking out and for a dialogue heavy film it still keeps your attention.
When I first saw the trailer for Real Steel I scoff at it, thinking it looked like a big budget, cliché ridden film and that Hugh Jackman needed a better agent. It had been jokily been called the Rock 'Em Sock 'Em Robots the movie, but it turns out that Real Steel is an entertaining film for the whole family.In the near future robot boxing has replaced human boxing because people wanted the carnage without the bloodshed. Charlie Kenton (Jackman) was a boxer who was forced to turn to a robot operator. He is constantly in debt, always on the road to fight underground, avoiding debt collectors and has to make deals to find new robots. At a rodeo in Texas he is told his ex-girlfriend has died and he is the next-of-kin to his son Max (Dakota Goyo). Charlie is willing to get Max's aunt (Hope Davis) care for him, for $100,000, but only if he takes care of the child when they she is on her second honeymoon with her husband (James Rebhorn). The aunt is not aware of this deal. Over the summer Max finds a old sparing robot Atom, and over the course of the film improve it. Atom some raises up the underground scene to the point he can challenge the best robots in the professional league.Real Steel is a sports film, a sci-fi story and most importantly a father-son story. Charlie starts as a real jackass, avoiding his creditors and willing to sell his son for a quick buck. Of course Max is not thrilled finding this out but slowly they bound and as characters they grow. They story is the main element of this film and Jackman and Goyo were good performers together. The boxing was also really well handled: Shawn Levy was able to mix animatronics and CGI seemingly as knocking seven bells out of each other. There is excellent camera work, editing, special effects and a soughing score by Danny Elfman. Levy was able to make the human drama compelling and deliver on the robot action, making all the robots look different and have different styles and moves. He would be a much better choice to direct a real Transformers reboot.The acting was solid throughout. No one was Oscar worthy but they did good job particularly Jackman as his character does change and grow. Some people have said that Goyo was annoying but I thought he did a good job and shows a lot of promise. I think that it is more the writing behind the character and I think there are some just reasons behind that, he just lost his mother and dumped with a father he does not know or cared about him. Even though this is a paycheque film for most of the actors they did at least put effort in their performances and for someone like Evangeline Lilly hopefully Real Steel can be a stepping stone from her role on Lost to a promising film career.As a sport film it can be a little clichéd but as a whole it is still very well done, still exciting and action packed. Some elements could have trimmed but it is a decent little package.As a film it is good family entertainment. It is a drama, but not dark nor really light and there are some comic moments. Tonally it is just about right to show for children over the age of nine to adults.7.5/10
Brad Bird, a member of the Simpsons team in its early days and the writer and director of the Iron Giant and the Incredibles. Pixar studios have made some of the best animated films ever, film Toy Story to the Wall-E, only missing the mark once. Pixar is the only Hollywood studio that can get away with such uncinematic material.The plot focuses on Remy (Patton Oswalt), a rat from rural France who has a highly developed sense of taste and smell. He is obsessed with cooking and after getting separated from his colony ends up in the centre of Paris. He goes to the result of his ideal Auguste Gusteau who had recently died. He watches the kitchen staff work and sees the new garbage boy Linguini (Lou Romano) nearly ruining the soap of the day. Remy goes in to the kitchen an starts to make a tasty, but gets caught by Linguini. However, Linguini comes up with the idea that the two can work in a team and the young man becomes a cooking celebrity in France. However, the team have to take on the villainous the head-chef Skinner (Ian Holm) who used Auguste Gusteau's image to sell cheap frozen dinners. During the film Remy and Linguini suffer the highs and lows of celebrity and cookery and friendship, strain loyalties and romance, as well as tacking the evil Skinner and having to please the Anton Ego (Peter O'Toole), the toughest food critic in Paris.The animation is beautiful, which is what you expect from a Pixar film, but there is more then that. In Ratatouille there are characters you care about, good voice acting, a strong plot, great designs and a lot of research was conducted. This was a film made from love. The humour is mostly slapstick, but it's a kid film, so you expect it and it's good slapstick. There were also good visual and verbal jokes. The best humour involves the mass of rats. I also thought that the hard-as-nails female chef Collette (Janeane Garofalo) was an excellent comic creation. There is also some dark humour and jokes for adults. However there is one scene which may upset very young or sensitive children, but most will like it.I admit I prefer the Incredibles, but Ratatouille is an excellent follow up by Brad Bird and I would like him to either do a sequel for the Incredibles or work as the Simpsons show runner just to sort out the once great show.Fantastic film.
When I was younger I was really into Greek mythology, so I have a little bit of soft spot for films set in Ancient Greece. The original Clash of the Titans is considered one of the highlights in sub-genre in the fantasy genre.The Gods of Mount Olympus are worshipped in many cities. Zeus (Laurence Olivier) rules the Gods and his word and judgement is final: but he is biased towards his own children, including Perseus (Harry Hamlin). But that does not mean the Gods cannot play power games with each as Perseus ends up on a quest to protect the beautiful Princess Andromeda (Judi Bowker) and the city of Joppa from a curse placed upon them from the vengeful goddess Thetis (Maggie Smith).One of the big highlights is the stop-motion effects by the great Ray Harryhausen. Of course they are dated by today's standards, but Harryhausen was a master of his craft and there is a wonderful amount of detail in some very inventive creature designs. They is just a charm to them and the action as a hold still up today, particularly the fights with Calibos (which also had a good make-up job) and the two-headed wolf. It is refreshing in an age of CGI to have older films that physique to them. But some of the old blue screen effects, particularly the flooding of Argos has not aged well and the wave looks terrible.Clash of the Titans is fun fantasy experience for people who enjoys Greek mythology. Some of the most fun aspects for people enjoy the mythology is the interplay between the Gods and how they try and one up each other or act spitefully, using mortals are pawns and playthings to their whims. The Gods were basically a dysfunctional family. There are of course liberties to the legends, this isn't Excalibur which was a very loyal adaptation to Arthurian legends which was released in the same year.The Gods were played by a big name actors, Olivier, Smith and Ursula Andress being some of the most recognisable. Smith was the strongest presence out of them all as she serfs the antagonistic role and you can feel her vengeful side throughout. Out of the human cast Hamlin was a solid lead and he gave a decent performance, but Bowker, whilst very pretty was a little stiff in her delivery.The problem with Clash of the Titans is the writing as it very episodic. We see the characters go on a number of mini-quests during their mission. We see Perseus go on a mission to fight Calibos, then go on a quest to find the Stygian Witches which leads him on a mission to defeat Medusa. There was no truly overarching storyline. Nor are the human characters particularly well written: they does not seem to be much in the way of character development. They do not change much or nor do we get to know much about them, particularly the rest of Perseus' troop who we have are meant to have an emotional connection to (particular to Tim Pigott-Smith's character) but we do not get to know much about them. The final problem is Bubo, a mechanical owl which just felt out really out of place in a film about Greek mythology. They is a kitsch value to him and was well designed ,but why is a robot owl in this film? As a film Clash of the Titans is the closest we are going to get to a sequel to Jason and the Argonauts (a film that felt like it was lining up for a sequel). It is a solid piece of fantasy entertainment that should be praised for its special effects.
Based on a celebrated graphic novel, Persepolis is a film that brings its source material through animation.Persepolis is the auto-biographical account of Marjane Satrapi as she grew up during the Iranian Revolution. Starting in 1978 Iran is the middle of a political crisis with people wanting to bring down the Shah. Marji (Gabrielle Lopes Benites (child)/Chiara Mastroianni (adult)), is a 9-year-old who idealises Bruce Lee, wishes to become a prophet and terrorises a local child whom father is a brutal government official. She also loves her parents who are political activities (Simon Abkarian and Catherine Deneuve), her grandmother (Danielle Darrieux) and uncle (François Jerosme) who was political prisoner for being a communist. But when Ayatollah Khomeini takes over Iran everything becomes worst with the regime becoming more repressive, with women forced to wear the veil, political prisoners are executed, the nation is at war with Iraq and the shops are empty. Marji becomes active in counter-culture, buying bootleg Iron Maiden tapes, wear a denim jacket and questions her teachers before being sent to Austria to for her own safety.Persepolis is a powerful story that is both a dramatic and emotional story and a comic and surreal tale. The animation style is simple but it works in the context of the film, allowing for some cut scenes for comic reasons, as well as showing the history and events of Iran. The black and white style worked well with the context of the film, showing the dark times that Marji grew up. Persepolis is a really interesting film about how a child would see how the world in the middle of turmoil, her innocent dreams and belief in God and Marxism compared to the harsh reality of life. She grows into counter-culture to the facing prejudice in Europe. The film shows how you can resist in a harsh reality, through party, making moonshine and going into Western counter-culture. Persepolis shows how some young European young people are pretentious, thinking they are cool by ripping into other subgroups, listening to music they possibly don't like and complaining about politics, capitalism and how it all does not really manner. Marji's intelligences shows the hypocrisy of the Islamic regime throughout her live, how she is a permanent outsider and how a young girl/woman longs to be free.Persepolis is a story about growing and the writer directors Vincent Paronnaud and Satrapi do show with great effect the impact of the revolution and the war, the pointless nature of the Iran-Iraq war, the politics and society of Iran and most importantly the personal and human drama involving Marji and her family. I also like how the nuns in Austria were drawn in a similar style to the religious Iranian female enforcers, with Marji swapping one religious regime for another.An excellent film.
Danny Boyle has had a bumper few years, earning an Oscar for Slumdog Millionaire, making his dream project, 127 Hours and earned massive praise for the 2012 London Olympic opening ceremony. After years away, he has returned to making a British set film with Trance, which pleases as both a mainstream crime-thriller and a more cerebral psychological thriller.At a London art auction, Frank (Vincent Cassel) and his crew attempt to steal a painting valued at $25 Million. Simon (James McAvoy) is hailed as a hero when he tries to stop the heist and gets hit in the head for trouble. But Simon was the inside man for the heist and suffers amnesia, due to the blow he received during the action. When Frank discovers he does not have the painting, he becomes determined to find out where it is, by any means necessary. When torturing Simon does not work, Frank turns to more unusual techniques and makes Simon see a hypnotherapist, Elizabeth Lamb (Rosario Dawson) and forces everyone involved down a dark and twisted path.Boyle reunites with writer John Hodge and Trance does feel very much like an early Boyle film. Like Shallow Grave and Trainspotting, Trance focuses on people on the fringes of the criminal world, who get embroiled into much wider scheme and get in over their heads. The film starts with a great heist sequence and has at the start a slightly darker comic tone before turning into a fast paced thriller.As expected Trance has all the visual flair you want from a Danny Boyle film, with all the cross cutting between flashbacks and the present time and Boyle does gets to play around with the dreamscape. Trance also serves as a great example of how a music score can amplify the action on the screen, being a fast and pumping when the action picks up to being calm and tranquil for the hypnotist sequences. Boyle does get to audience absorbed into his dream worlds with his use lens flare, camera movement and music.Trance is similar to other thrillers like Memento and The Machinist, twisting and turning constantly. Boyle starts the film as a heist flick and then slowly turns the genre gears and turns the film into a psychological thriller. Like Christopher Nolan, Boyle and his writers set out to explore themes of memories, relationships, manipulation and trust and it was done to an expect level. Throughout the film, it changes courses constantly, leaving to the audience guessing: but Boyle and the writers do leave some clues about the eventual ending and I am sure there's more to the film, during a second viewing.The characters themselves are also enigmas, as their motivations change and we get to see more pieces of the puzzle. Simon starts off as a victim but as the film progresses, we see his dark and twisted side and McAvoy effectively brings this out of his character. He was much better fitted for this role, than his recent action anti-hero role in Welcome to the Punch. On a whole, the characters are generally unsympathetic and the film constantly shifts both its focus and who the audience should root for. But added to the film's theme of who we are meant to trust as relationships, the motives in the film that shift along coincide with its themes and makes some sense overall.Whilst Trance is a fun ride, people might begin to see multiple plot holes and raise questions about how characters know certain actions and reactions were going to happen. But it can be argued that The Dark Knight Rises had plot problems, if you held it to any form of analysis and people still enjoyed that film. The aim of Boyle and the writers was to focus on the themes and how the puzzle fit together once you get more information, even if the foundation itself is a little shaky.Trance is a highly entertaining and engaging crime and psychological thriller. It is a fun ride as it brinks through its 101 minute running time. Whilst there are some logic and logistical problems in the plot when everything is revealed, it is still a well made film that explores the themes of memory, trust and the framework of the mind. Fans of Boyle's previous work will certainly be pleased.Please visit www.entertainmentfuse.com
Outside of The Twilight Saga, The Host is Stephanie Meyer's biggest novel and since the success of her supernatural series, her sci-fi novel has been adapted. There is a stronger cast and director for The Host, than the Twilight Saga, but how does it fare on its own terms? In the near future, Earth has been conquered by a parasitic alien race known as The Souls, who implant themselves into human bodies. Melanie Stryder (Saoirse Ronan) is a member of the human resistance who gets captured when she tries to protect her younger brother, Jamie (Chandler Canterbury). Melanie gets implanted with a Soul, called Wanderer, with the aliens planning to use Melanie's memories in order to find the human resistance. As Wanderer explores Melanie's memories, she finds out about Melanie's lover, Jared (Max Irons) and the pair plan an escape to the desert to find the resistance camp. Within the camp, Wanderer falls for another human, Ian (Jake Abel), causing problems for all of them.Let's get the comparisons with Twilight out the way; yes there is a is love triangle (or should that be a love square?), The Host has a much better lead actress with Ronan then Kirsten Stewart and has a stronger supporting cast, with the likes of William Hurt and Diane Kruger. Andrew Niccol also gives the film more creditability behind the camera, acting as both the writer and director. The Host has interesting ideas that had many potential avenues to explore: but unfortunately it focuses more on the love story instead of all of the other aspects that could have lead to a much more meaningful film.Ronan does rise above the material and gives very strong performance, as you would expect from her. This is even more remarkable that she has to argue and talk with herself, like Homer Simpson arguing with his own brain. Whilst there was the potential for themes of locked in syndrome as Melanie is trapped inside her own head, fighting to control her own body or going through a more literal, internal conflict. But it turns really silly when she argues with herself over two men, as opposed of having a much more difficult time of having a stronger conflict within her character. Ronan gets battered and beaten throughout the film as she gets hit, verbally abused and discriminated against and yet, still persevere through everything she's up against.Whilst Ronan does a good job, the two men she is meant to be conflicted about are blank stales. Neither actor has much of a personality or character and they are very indistinguishable from each other. Ronan has no choice but to carry the film, considering that there was nothing going for the main love interests. At least Hurt and Kruger looked like they were having fun with their roles and were highly professional with their performances.The idea of some sort of insider for an oppressive regime having an awakening, usually because a love interest and ends up turning against their own side has been used before. We have seen it in novels like Nineteen-Eighty Four, Fahrenheit 451 and We and films such as Metropolis and THX-1138. The Host does twist this age old idea in sci-fi, even if the execution was lacking.The Host had a really strong premise with opportunities to explore multiple themes. They could have been themes about identity, the battle within the mind, split personalities, trust and how humans would survive after this invasion. But like Twilight, the film only touches on these concepts and puts all of its focus in the wrong places.Much like Twilight, The Host has been criticised for its dialogue and being unintentionally funny. It is true that the film has some bad dialogue, but with some of the moments that were comical that had be intentional, with some of its moments of cultural clash and the bickering between Wanderer and Melanie. There are also some dark moments and there were really refreshing when they do come around.Niccol is known for being an excellent writer director, making Gattaca and Lord of War and was nominated for an Academy Awards for his screenplay for The Truman Show. The Host is his first adaptation and it felt very rigidly close to the source material. What it results to is a bland experience that has episodic nature, having mini-plots with some developments, instead of a larger overarching story. Looks wise, the film is pretty flat and dull, using nothing but silver chrome for the alien technology, concrete and glass for the buildings and the humans are based in an empty desert environment. The cinematography and the special effects were solid but, Niccol was coasting and he is much more capable then this.Currently on Rotten Tomatoes, The Host has an 12% rating and seemingly on course to be considered one of the worst films of 2013. Whilst it is hard to argue that The Host is a good movie, it is certainly not terrible: its crime is merely being mediocre, dull and forgettable.Please visit www.entertainmentfuse.com
When a film has two jokes involving defecation then you know it is hardly stretching itself to be a high class comedy. The Other Woman is lazy affair filled with mugging performances that only occasionally raises a smile.Carly (Cameron Diaz) is a high flying corporate lawyer in New York City who has seemingly has found the perfect man she can setting down with, Mark King (Nikolaj Coaster-Waldau). But there is a big problem, Mark is a cheating scumbag and when his wife suburban Kate (Leslie Mann) finds out he was having an affair she confronts Carly. The pair form an unlikely friendship and when they find out Mark is having an affair with a much younger woman, Amber (Kate Upton) the trio plot their revenge.The Other Woman is a comedy of the lowest common denominator, using easy slapstick, sex jokes and the aforementioned cruder jokes about bodily fluids being expelled as well as Ms. Diaz getting hit in the face with a pair of a Great Dane's testicles. The humour is obvious throughout, such as when Carly tells Kate not to let her dog on the furniture and you can guess what happens next. And there are a number of conversations about sex, including graphic conservation about women including shaving their Brazilian areas (this is a film with a 12A rating). There was the occasional witty line in the rough but it is too few and far between.The Other Woman is an over acted aware with Mann being the worst as she mugs her way through the film, overplaying Kate's naïveté and ditzy personality. She cries and plays dumb constantly as she suffers through the slapstick shenanigans. Even Coaster-Waldau who has done great work on Game of Thrones and the Norwegian thriller Headhunters embarrasses himself in the film, going through many indignities that is beneath him. The character of Amber is so underwriting that it was unclear if she was made to be fairly intelligent or very dumb she easily flips either way.Nick Cassavetes slums his way in the director's chair, using a soundtrack of pop songs to spell out the events on screen. It's so bad that the Mission Impossible theme when the women follow Mark and a guitar riff when revealing Upton and her buttocks. Cassavetes bland direction shows he has no real skill for timing, letting his actors run amok and had no sense of comic timing and use easy art and costume short-cuts, like all the suburban women having the clichéd blouses and sweater look.The Other Woman is a lazy comedy using crass humour for a cheap laugh. It hardly has anything to offer and it will be a blot on many careers.Please visit www.rocknreelreviews.com
Mad Max: good. Max Mad 2: the Road Warrior: very good. Max Mad Beyond Thunderdome: poor. Why does it when film series get to their third film that it tends to be a weak effort, from Batman Forever, Alien 3, Dead of the Dead, Superman III, X-Men 3, etc? Max Mad Beyond Thunderdome is no exception.The story of the film starts when Max (now looking like William Wallace from Braveheart (most overrated film ever)), has all his belonging stolen by a plane pilot (Bruce Spence). Mad ends up going to Barbertown, a small settlement that attempts civilisation. It is in the middle between Aunty Entity (Tina Turner), the leader of the town and the Master Blaster (Angelo Rossitto and Paul Larsson) who runs the power supply. Max agrees to help Aunty Entity in exchange for the return of his belongings and ends up challenging the Blaster in the Thunderdome (a gladiatorial style battle). However, when Max refuses to kill the Blaster he is forced out the town and ends up in the desert. But Max is found by a tribe of children who live in an Oasis and have created their own myths about civilisation. Max sets up to help when some of the children try to go off to Barbertown.Between the time of Mad Max 2 and 3, the producer Byron Kennedy died and George Miller was starting to lose interest. George Miller does write for the film but only directs the actions scenes, George Ogilvie takes over for the rest of the film. Whilst Mad Max and Mad Max 2 had a camp factor to it, it never over took the story. However, in this film it is overplayed, especially in Barbertown and with characters like Aunty Entity and the Master Blaster. The acting isn't good either. Mel Gibson was okay, but seem tired with the role, and other actors like Tina Turner and Angelo Rossitto was poor. As well, even the action scenes were not as good as in Mad Max 2. Roger Ebert thought that the fight between Max and the Blaster was the most original fight scene since the start of the material arts films; I personally thought it was a poor scene. As well the final chase scene wasn't as good as in the previous films. There were interesting ideas, like people trying to rebuild civilisation and start up trying to make technology work again, and the ideas of the children's fading memories and creating their own mythology, but even that isn't used to its full potential.Mad Max Beyond Thunderdome was a missed opportunity.
Before I start this review is of the original cut of the film.Sci-fi films of the 70s and the classic Blade Runner were able to mix science fiction and a mystery/detective plot. Blade Runner is particular famous for having film noir as an influence and Dark City certainly wanted to capture its magic.Set in a 1930s like city John Murdoch (Rufus Sewell) wakes up in a bath tube with no memories and a dead prostitute in a apartment. Then he gets a call from Dr. Schreber (Kiefer Sutherland) who tells him he needs to run before a blue skinned alien race capture him. Soon John discovers he has a wife, singer Emma (Jennifer Connelly), being chased by the police let by Inspector Bumstead (William Hurt) and more importantly discovers he has psychic powers called 'tune' and that the city's skyline changes because the aliens have the ability to alter reality. John has to solve the mysteries of the aliens and his own past, knowing something is not right with this city.Blade Runner was clearly an influence on Dark City in both storytelling and visual style and the film's look and certain story elements were similar to the classic silent film Metropolis. Dark City also shares themes of control and what is reality with The Matrix and The Truman Show, films that were made at the same time. Dark City had a very clever script behind, great for another who likes a bit of intellect in their movies.Director Alex Proyas has a great eye for cityscape, as seen in his other films The Crow and I, Robot. I really enjoyed the use of models to show how the city changes and gives it more physicality. Because of the short running Proyas has to make his film a very fast paced adventure, but he was able to balance out the mystery, ideas, characters and the action effective. There is dark edge to this film as people's identities are changed and taken away, people not knowing who they really are as well as some trying sinister characters. There is a very retro feel to the film, from the art-deco, 1930s looking city, the characters dressed like 30s noir characters and using luger pistols and many of the setting like the club and the restaurant. Topping it all of is Dr. Schreber's mad scientist outfit which looked very much like something from a 1950s B-Movie or a cartoon series.Anyway a worthy watch for someone who likes a bit of intelligence in their sci-fi.
Rise of the Guardians is a delightful film for the whole family, telling the story of how Santa Claus, the Easter Bunny, the Tooth Fairy and the Sandman protect children and they thrive on children's beliefs. But when an old threat awakens the group needs to find a new guardian to help them, Jack Frost (Chris Pine).Rise of the Guardians is a wonderfully animated film from first time director Peter Ramsey perfectly mixes the comedy, drama and action. The animation is fast and fluid they is great detail all of the scenes. They are great little designs such as the Christmas Elves and the Tooth Fairies.The comedy is strong, being very physical and visual whiles also have some little jokes and character moments. It is a film that provides plenty moments that will bring a smile to people's faces. It is all weighted with the drama and the darkness of the villain, Pitch (Jude Law). Screenwriter David Lindsay-Abaire clearly follows the Hero With Thousand Faces template as a reluctant hero having a destiny thrust upon him and has to prove himself as well find out about his past whiles Pitch reflect of what Jack Frost could become.The film assembles a great voice cast with Pine being perfectly cast as the cocky, fearless Jack Frost whiles playing the character. Combined with the visuals it is easy to feel for Jack's plight as he longs to be seen by the world. Law gave a sinister performance as the voice, also playing it straight and Alec Baldwin was having fun being a Russian accented Santa.Alexandre Desplat supplies another excellent music, giving the film both an epic score for scale of the action and giving the seasonal sound when needed.Rise of the Guardians will certainly make Christmas viewing, working as a fantasy drama and a comedy and it is easy for the young and the young at heart can enjoy.I saw the 3D Blu-ray version and the 3D effort were very score.
Based on a German novel by Bernhard Schlink, The Reader was turned into an British film, directed by Stephen Daldry of Billy Elliot and The Hours fame, adapted by David Hare (The Hours) and stars Kate Winslet and Ralph Fiennes.Michael Berg (David Kross) is a 15-year-old living in 1958 who has Scarlett Fever. A train conductor, Hanna Schmidt (Winslet) helps him out and after he thanks her starts to have an affair with the older woman. Their relationship is cemented by Michael reading anything classic novels to Tintin comics to her. But after their relationship breaks down, Michael becomes a Law student at Heidelberg University, but when studying German War Guilt and see a war crimes trial he see that Hanna use to be a SS guard. What is made even worst is she is being made a scapegoat by the other guards for a massacre during a death march. Michael is left with a choice to relieve Hanna's secret to save her from a long prison sentence.The Reader was a film that was obviously made with the Award bodies in mind and its main strength is its actors. The Reader does have an excellent cast, Winslet got to win her first Oscar, Fiennes is pretty much great in anything he does and the young Kross shows great promise, giving a believable performance as a young man ending up in a relationship with a older woman and how he would act and the decision he has to face. The main three actors are very natural in their roles even though it is a little weird that some actors speaking with German accents and others with English ones. There are also very well supported by other actors in the movie, from the likes of Bruno Ganz and Karoline Herfurth.There are mentions of ideas of German war guilt and personal guilt with the SS guards trying to avoid their own collective guilt placing it all on one person. But the main story is about Michael and Hanna and their relationship, from the early, almost stalker like start to its evolution to a sexual relationship and its aftermath. Michael is continually drawn to her in some form, but also wants to keep his distances. It is a complex relationship and you could easily argue that Michael should have told her secret. But in the past Hanna was quiet a cold and manipulative, she is not that nice of a person so it is no wonder that their relationship breaks down. They are complex characters.The direction by Stephen Daldry is standard, nothing stylist but the period details are well captured and he knows how to move the film along. It is a tender sort of film, look at human emotion and a social drama. It is certainly a well made film and Daldry just wanted everything to grow slowly, trying to be as real as possible, though some things are a bit of a stretch.
Monty Python has a big influence on this film, which isn't surprising with Terry Gilliam directing, Michael Palin and Gilliam both writing the script and Palin and John Cleese having supporting roles.Time Bandits focuses on Kevin, an 11-year-old English boy who is ignored by his parents and they just want to buy next gadgets. Kevin enjoys reading about history, mainly ancient Greece. When Kevin goes to bed one night a Medieval Knight on horseback jumps out from his wardrobe and through his wall. This takes him by surprise and wants to see if it happens again. During the second night six dwarfs come out from his wardrobe and are being chased. Kevin goes with them and find out they have a map to all the holes in the universe which gives them the chance to time travel. Kevin also finds out that they are thieves, planning on robbing historical figures of their riches, a plot that was later used in Futurama: Bender's Big Score. As well, the dwarfs were being chased by the Superme Being, i.e. God. As well the group were being watched by the Evil One, who wants to use the map to re-make the universe in his own image.The Monty Phyton team have one hell of an imagine, coming up with brilliant ideas. Time Bandits wouldn't have been made in Hollywood. It is a visual treat and is a funny film. It has visual jokes and clever lines. The performances by the dwarfs were excellent, and Cleese's and Palin's cameos were a nice extra. Sean Connery was also well casted as King Agamemnon when Kevin was in Accient Greece. The film also uses its themes of religion and time travel to it limits which was needed. Terry Giliam did an excellent job directing, and he has done brilliant films from Monty Phyton and the Holy Grail, Brazil and Twelve Monkeys.Time Bandits is a smart family film, with elements for Monty Phyton fans to enjoy. 4 out of 5.
Yet face, if a book sales well, it is bound to made into a film, regardless of quality, or even if it is filmable. This is true for books like Twilight, the Golden Compass (or Northern Lights what it's really called) and Dan Brown's thrillers. J.K. Rowling's Harry Potter series became one of the most popular series of books of all time, appealing to children and adults. There were written in a assessable style, with a clear and strong narrative, but with a good deal of backstory. A film adaption became enviable.Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone is the first book, and film of the series, starting with Harry Potter (Daniel Radcliffe) as an 11-year-old boy, raised as a regular human (muggle) child by his aunt and uncle. He is abused, forced to live in a small cupboard under the stairs whiles his cousin is spoiled rotten. But Harry's life is changed when he finds out that he had been admitted to Hogwarts, a school for wizards and witches. He discoveries that he is a celebrity in the wizardry world, but does not know his own family history. Whiles in Hogwarts Harry makes friends with Ron Weasley (Rupert Grint) and Hermione Granger (Emma Watson), and the three end up working together. Harry becomes the new star of the Quidditch team, and Hermione is the brains of the operation. The three believe that a threat to Hogwarts, with the Dark Wizard Lord Voldermort wanting the Philosopher's Stone hidden in Hogwarts and using his old follower Professor Severus Snape (Alan Rickman) to get it.When this film was in pre-production a number of big-name directors were attached, including Terry Gilliam, M. Night Shyamalan, Alan Parker, Brad Silberling, Baz Luhrmann and even Steven Spielberg. Spielberg planned making the film animated with Haley Joel Osment doing the voice, luckily this never got off the ground. J.K. Rowling preferred was Terry Gilliam, an excellent director with great vision, but could be a handful with the film going overbudget. Warner Brothers settled for Chris Columbus, a director with a decent reputation for family films, like Home Alone and Mrs Doubtfire. He offers a steady hand, knowing what to do, having fun with CGI and light moments of comedy, as well trying to be like Spielberg involving sentimental moments. But he is not so good on the darker elements of the story, hedge why other directors were brought in for later films. Columbus is basically a safe pair of hands to start things off until the films could stand on their own legs.J.K. Rowling insisted that the cast for the film should have been all British and Irish. The studio played alone and it was a wise move, much like the Bond movies. It was have betrayed fans and non-fans to see an American Harry with either him in end up going to England or transferring the action to America. There is an excellent cast with actors like Richard Harris, Robbie Coltrane, Alan Rickman, Maggie Smith, John Hurt, just to name a few. The type of film Harry Potter is it did not need a massive A-Lister like Brad Pitt or Will Smith, just good actors. The young actors who played the main three actors were however, not great. They were young, child actors with little experience, Emma Watson and Rupert Grint only acted in school plays. They do however improve in latter films, and we can forgive them because they were young and Chris Columbus isn't known for getting great performers from actors.The Philosopher's Stone is the most light-hearted of the films. They is good action and a fun story. Making the film a good start to the Harry Potter series, keeping it going to 2011.
... and that is a cardinal sin when it comes for a filmmaker. You need to keep the audience attention.2010: The Year We Make Contact is a sequel to the Stanley Kubrick's masterpiece, 2001: A Space Odyssey. Never has a film never needed a sequel then any of Kubrick's film. Of course, 2010 is set after 2001: A Space Odyssey. The American government know that the Discovery mission to Jupiter was a failure. Dr. Floyd (Roy Scheider) was blamed by the American government and lost his position. The American planned a second mission to Jupiter, but the Soviet Union were about to launch a mission before. The Soviet Union have a problem, they need America's information about the Monolith and be able to access Discovery's computers. They want Americans to join them and in return their would share information and scientific research. Floyd also wants to prove himself and redeem his reputation. Whilst in space the join American-Soviet discovery some strange scientific information about the Jupiter moon Europa. Things on Earth and in space become very surreal with the real of the astronaut, Dave Bowman (Keir Dullea) who had returned (or may not have) from the space gateway that he went through. On Earth, the Soviet Union and the United States are edging closely to a World War Three, in a Cuban Missile style crisis.The acting was adequate, and this film is a lot more Earth bound then 2001 was, having some political elements to it. That could have been planned on more. But once the film goes into space, it easy to lose interest. The writing, plotting and pacing is poor, and the direction nothing compared to the great Stanley Kubrick. 2001 was a really profound film, with themes of evolution, scientific discovery and man ending up destroying itself. 2010 does not have any themes like that. At best you could argue that it about scientific co-operation, pacifism, the ghosts of the past and a message of peace and new life at the end. But as I said, it is nothing to 2001. The surreal elements of Dave's return even reminded me of the Event Horizan, but not even as good as that film. 2010 also ruins the mystery of the Kubrick classic.If you love the first film then avoid this film. If you have seen it then just forget it (which isn't hard to do). It is a poor film.
Sir Ridley Scott is one of the best directors around, who can take the audience into another world, and is properly going to enter the ranks of great director who have never won an Oscar. When Legend was made Scott's career was clearly on the up, having made the Duelists, Alien and Blade Runner. Sadly Legend was his first flop and showed that had the problem of being a hit and miss director.In a magical world The Lord of Darkness (Tim Curry) is rising again, and his only weakness is sunshine. They is only one thing preventing him gaining his full strength, the presents of unicorns. He demands his most wicked of goblins, Blix (Alice Playten) to find them, kill them and bring their horns to him. In the forest are two young friends, Jack (Tom Cruise) and Princess Lily (Mia Sara). Both are innocent and in love with nature and each other. Jack and Lily accidental lead Blix to the unicorns, where one is killed, and the world is plunged into a deep winter. The other unicorn and Lily are capture and taken by to the Lord of Darkness' lair. It up to Jack, and his allies, including Gump, a child-like elf creature (David Bennent) and the fairy Oona (Annabelle Lanyon), to save Lily and the unicorn and stop the evil Lord.There is good make-up and special effects in the film, but that is not enough. The Lord of Darkness does look impressive, yet this film has overly camp feel, with the dialogue and the look of some scenes. A good example is Blix who uses rhymes when being evil and lacked any menace that was required.There are a number of problems in the film. The key problem is the script: it is full of fairy tales clichés, awful dialogue, a uninspired plot and plot holes. One of the big examples is Blix and his teams capture the second unicorn when they could have easily killed it and let the Lord of Darkness take over. They isn't much to the film. The film also seem to lack any real action, that could have made it more exciting and more driven. Not a lot happens and their is no real challenge despite the fact they are fighting the Devil. They are problems with casting. Tom Cruise was terribly miscasted, looking too old for his part and offering a weak performance. Alice Playten just sounded weird and as stated, was pretty camp. David Bennett looked very creepy and it was even worst with Alice Playten's voice. However Mia Sara was pretty good in the film, and Tim Curry was fairly impressive.Despite the good make-up for the film for characters like Blix and the Lord of Darkness, other characters like the dwarfs did not look so good. The set design also looked fairly cheap and not very well done. This is not Ridley Scott's finest hour.If you want to watch a good fantasy film watch Peter Jackson's extended Lord of the Rings films or Michael Vaughn Stardust. If you want a good Ridley Scott you have some many opinions like Alien, Blade Runner, Gladiator, American Gangster, Body of Lies and Black Hawk Down.2 out of 5.
Pan's Labyrinth, since as one of the best films in 2006 by critics and cinema fans alike and they do have a point. A film made with love and imagination. Easily the best film I seen by the top Mexican director Guillermo del Toro.Set in 1944 during the Franco Regime of Spain, 10-year-old Ofelia (Ivana Baquero) and her heavily pregnant mother Camern (Ariadna Gil) move to Spanish countryside. Camern's new husband, Captain Vidal (Sergi López i Ayats) who was leading a campaign as a guerrilla force. He wanted his wife there for the birth of his child, despite fact she was ill during the pregnancy. Ofelia is a lonely child, she dislikes the Captain who wants her to call him father and only cares abouts his seed. He is also a brutal commander against the guerrillas, who was very willing to use torture and stave them out. She ends up befriending a servant, Mercedes (Maribel Verdú), who happens to be a guerrilla spy. Ofelia was a girl who liked to read fairy tales and believed in them. She reads on where the Princess of the Underworlds goes to the Real World, but ends up loosing her memory and dies. The King however believed that his daughter's spirit was still alive and would return to him. One night Ofelia goes to an old labyrinth need the house and discovers a Faun (Doug Jones). He believes Ofelia was Princess Moanna and tell her that the King was waiting for her. He sets Ofelia to complete 3 tasks that needed to be done for the next full moon. On this quest she encounters strange creatures, magical tools and dangers and has a book that can predict her future.This is a film of wonderful designs of creatures and sets. It has a great mix of realistic settings and ideas like the guerrilla warfare to the magical world Ofelia has to embark appond. There is a great mix of make-up, CGI and puppets. Del Toro is a man with a wonderful imagination.The story and characters are strong and compelling. You care about what happens and has a mix of child-like wonder to the harsh realist of the real world. There are homages to other wonderful films and books like The Chronicles of Narnia: The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe, the Wizard of Oz, Spirited Away and Alice in Wonderland, as well as fairy tales. There are even some direct homages, such as Ofelina's dress. There are numerous sub-plots which end up interlinking with the story and all easy enough to follow.Pan's Labyrinth is also dark, violence and pretty scary, it is not a film for young children. Because of the engaging character of Ofelina you end up fearing for her. Also the Pale Man is a really horrible looking creature and if you have a phobia of eyes like me, then it's unpleasant.The acting is excellent, especially by the young actress Ivana Baquero who should have a great career ahead of her. Del Toro is a wonderful at casting.If you can not tell, Del Toro's direction was magnificent. He hands the story so well, mixing all it elements with skill. This is type of film he needs to do more of.Pan's Labyrinth is a wonderful dark fairy tale for the modern age.
When it was first announced there was a lot of hype towards Cowboys and Aliens: a simple high concept film with a wide range of talent behind it, Jon Favreau in the director's chair, Steven Spielberg, Ron Howard and Brian Grazer producing and Daniel Craig and Harrison Ford starring.A man (Craig) wakes up in the middle of the desert with no memories about who he is or how he got there and has a strange bracelet around his left wrist. After beating up some thugs he goes to the town of Absolution and he discovers he is Jake Lonergan, a wanted outlaw who had robbed the powerful Colonel Dolarhyde (Ford), who wants Lonergan. But when the aliens attack the town and abduct a number of the civilians, a posse to hunt the aliens and unite different people to fight, whilst Jake must discover his past and what is the real goal of the mysterious Ella (Olivia Wilde).Since directing the Iron Man films Favreau has certainly able to direct action sequences and handle special effects. Cowboys and Aliens delivers on that front and it great blockbuster fun. For a man who is known for have a light touch to directing, Cowboys and Aliens is a very serious film: it is set in a dirty, gritty version of the Old West, it is not a fantasy world like in Back to the Future III. The filmmakers approach is how would a town in the Wild West react to a mystery force. The aliens themselves look a little bit like the Prawns from District 9, particularly how they move. It has been criticised for being too dark, but I still found it to be fun, action packed, with a few little moments for good measure. It was a fast paced homage to classic Westerns with a sci-fi twist. Cowboys and Aliens also sets out to show the different factors, lawman, outlaws and Native Americans, all traditional enemies uniting against a greater threat.Acting wise Craig is a strong, stoic character who has is a man of few words. Because of his role as James Bond he is assured as an action performer and his amnesia is he is very much like Jason Bourne, a little ironic really. Ford has turned into a grumpy, grizzly senior citizen and be was believable as a man who is willing to use violence but having a softer side as well. Olivia Wilde does have a unique look and a bit of a mysterious quality to her: she was not the best performer, but she gave it a go. Noah Ringer on the other hand is still wooden and it will be remarkable to he keeps getting film roles. Much of the supporting cast is solid in what is a pure summer blockbuster.Cowboys and Aliens is not perfect. There are some goofy moments like the Apache scene and problems involving the Ella character. But it is still entertaining.
Christopher Nolan's long time cinematographer Wally Pfister has moved into director's chair with the $100 Million sci-fi film Transcendence.In the near future Dr. Will Caster (Johnny Depp), his wife Evelyn (Rebecca Hall) and their friend Max Waters (Paul Bettany) are on the verge of a breakthrough by making a self-aware computer. But a terrorist group known as R.I.F.T. led by Bree (Kate Mara) are scared of the implications of Artificial Intelligence and launch a co-ordinated attack in California, including shooting with Will with a radioactive bullet. Dying of radiation poisoning and with Evelyn desperate to save him Will agrees to have his mind uploaded onto a computer. When Will is linked to the internet he is able to even more intelligent then anyone can possibly imagine but are his intentions more sinister than they seem and how much of the real Will is left? It is clear Pfister and writer Jack Paglen wanted to make a more thoughtful sci-fi film and fill it with many themes, from the extend of science, the risks of technology, the price of progress, the ideas of freewill and self-awareness, man playing God and the extent of love. There are influences and ideas from films like The Terminator series, The Matrix, 2001: A Space Odyssey, eXistenZ, Surrogates and even the Eva Green/Matt Smith film Womb. Other ideas such as Will linking himself into the internet he can act as a worldwide Big Brother but it is not fully explored.Despite the best intentions of Pfister and Paglen Transcendence is weighted down by a clunky script and very dubious science that leads to questions rather than answers. The first sin in the film starts with showing the world after the events of the story, taking away much of the tension that was meant to be on offer and sets up an interesting world that could have been explored. As the film progresses it becomes even more bonkers when the computer version of Will starts making revolutionary nano technology which is used to do anything the plot requires and the end takes a sharp turn to an environmental message. Plot holes involving the technology with people using smart phones and tablets despite being constantly online and Will being able to monitor everything at the same time. There is even a reference to Y2K, a shame its 15 years out of date.The directing and writing is predictable, going through the old storyline of man should not play God to Evelyn being blinded by love and future plot points as Will goes mad with power. Pfister tries but some of the ideas in the film have been explored many times before and it is a film that takes different turns of what sort of sci-fi film it wanted to be. The final climax involving terrorists battling people with Wolverine like healing powers and nano bot vines is not as exciting as he should have been.Transcendence has a great cast with the likes of Depp, Hall, Bettany, Morgan Freeman and Cillian Murphy all doing professional jobs. It is obvious Pfister used his connections to get Freeman and Murphy to play minor characters. Depp does offer a more grounded performance in comparison to most of his recent roles. Hall was the strongest performer as a woman so desperate to save her husband that she is blind to logic and reality. Evelyn does have a few similarities to Hall's character in Iron Man 3.The weakest member of the cast was Mara, giving a wooden performance as the terrorist leader. She had no authority or believability leading this group in violence and is made even worst by her young age.Pfister clearly wants to follow in Nolan's footsteps, making a more thoughtful film with biggest psychological and social themes then your usual blockbusters. The cinematography with Hot Fuzz's director of photograph Jess Hall replicated Pfister's style and camera movements and Pfister had a strong use of CGI and particle effects. Oscar winning composer Mychael Danna provides a score similar to the music of Hans Zimmer and some more heavenly sounding music to highlight the religious themes.At the time of this review Transcendence holds a Rotten Tomatoes score of 18%, suggesting it is going to be one of the worst big budget films of 2014. This is far from the case: it is simply an average film that had potential.Please visit www.rocknreelreviews.com
In recent years we have seen a great deal of social realism in sports movies like in The Fighter and The Wrestler. Warrior also sets out to do that with Mixed Martial Arts with a little bit of the Rocky thrown in.Warrior tells the story of two brothers, Tommy Riordan (Tom Hardy) and Brendan Conlon (Joel Edgerton). Tommy is a ex-marine who returns home from Iraq after 14 years to Pittsburgh to his father's, Paddy Conlon (Nick Nolte), doorstep. Paddy is a recovering alcoholic who use to beat his wife. Lost and angry Tommy turns to MMA, joining a gym and surprising beats a top middleweight contender. He asks his father to train him. Brendan lives in the suburbs of Philadelphia with his wife Tess (Jennifer Morrison) and his two young daughters. He is a former UFC fighter turned High School physics teacher. The couple are struggling financially and with the bank about to take their house Brendan fights in street fights. In the world of MMA a new tournament has been created, Sparta, a 48 hour tournament where the winner can win $5 Million and both brothers enter it.Warrior was directed by Gavin O'Connor and it was advertised that it was from the director of Miracle, another sports movie, but he also showed that he could do gritty urban set movies with Pride and Glory. He shows a lot of skill with this sports film and shows some style. When shooting in inner city the film uses a grey colour filter and in the suburbs it is lighter and brighter. One of my favourite moments was two training montages at the same time, shot using multiple screens like 24, showing action going on at the same time and showing two different training styles, Tommy taking a more basic, old-skool approach, whilst Brendan has a more modern, scientific method. Despite its long running time Warrior actually flew by. We get to know the know the characters in the build up and developed and the fights scenes show MMA to be a really tough, brutal sport. I liked the fact that rival fighters were not made out to be total dicks but simply as rival athletics and seeing how tough the sport is the writers didn't need to show much well.Warrior also has a great cast, Hardy and Edgerton are both excellent, but it was Nolte was absolutely brilliant and he properly get a best supporting actor Oscar nod. He was so natural and believable as a man trying to be good, atone for his past sins and try to get close to his sons despite them not wanting anything to do with him. He was a tragic character and Nolte's performance and role reminded me a lot of Mickey Rourke's in The Wrestler, a character trying to make amends with his past sins. Hardy is of course a very talented actor as we have seen in Bronson and his character is a very angry, bitter man but because he is a war hero he is the public's choice to win. But there is depth and reason behind it because of his past both as a wrestling protégé and family background and his experience in Iraq. Brendan is the most sympathetic character because he is only doing MMA again because he needs the money for family. He is reluctant but is willing to do anything for his family and he is the typical film hero. There is strong believable chemistry between the three characters and really believe there is a past between them. There is also a strong supporting cast: Frank Grillo played Brendan's trainer and whilst he looked like a gym nut that could easily parodied by Family Guy he is made out to be a decent man who is a little like Mickey from Rocky. Morrison is a decent actress and Kevin Dunn was actually pretty ground and serious in his role.Warrior is not perfect and there a few little problem. The first that Tommy is made out to be a really tough fighter, able to knock other men out with one punch but there is no establishing any fighting experience besides wrestling. The other is that Tommy is a complete unknown before the Youtube and he gets into Sparta without any previous bounds, but surely wouldn't he need to registered and have a ranking. Also there is a longer cut and I believe that it establishes other elements of the film through visuals like Brendan's daughter's heart condition.Overall Warrior is a very well made film and I believed it happened its family drama much better then The Fighter which it is very similar to.
Just before the release of the masterpiece, The Dark Knight, Warner Brothers decided to follow the success of what they did with the AniMatrix, releasing a DVD of short Anime films. I was disappointed by AniMatrix, which was marketed essential viewing before seeing the second two Matrix films. They were a damp squib and only one of the shorts had anything to do with the main films. But luckily I quite enjoyed Batman Gotham Knight.Batman Gotham Knight is six short film, around 12 minutes long, telling different stories about the Dark Knight. One includes a very interesting one about some skater teenagers saying they saw Batman, and came up with three very different versions of what Batman is. That short was good, and that was the weakest one as well. Other stories include Batman fighting against the Russian and Italian Mafia who are in the middle of a gang war, fighting the sewers against Scarecrow and Killer Croc, testing a new bit of equipment, a flashback story set in India and stopping Deadshot killing Lt. Gordon. My personal favourites out of the shorts are Working Through Pain and Deadshot, both telling good stories, and wonderfully action packed.Batman Gotham Knight was marketed as a number of shorts set in-different the events of Batman Begins and The Dark Knight. To me it felt more Christopher Nolan's films were more an influence then directly linked. Another influence must have been the great 90s animated series, with Kevin Conroy reprising his role as Bruce Wayne/Batman. The direction and the art is so wonderful to, I love anime and I like it when American and Japanese ideas are combined together. The storytelling and action is excellent. There are detailed character designs, like in Working Through Pain you got a real scene of India and young Bruce Wayne looked and fought like Bruce Lee. There are top writers and directors working on the shorts, including David S. Goyer, the writer of Batman Begins and the Dark Knight. Like the Nolan Batmans, the shorts try to shot a dark, more unpleasant Gotham, in a realistic city. There is corruption, and crime from low level thugs to organised crime leaders. Batman here is a symbol of hope and change for the city. The storytellers also try to take a more grounded view of the villains, even trying to make Killer Croc a little more believable (i.e. not a mutated crocodile).Unlike the AniMatrix, the stories are interlinked in some way, making the shorts as a whole stronger, more like a good TV series. They are recurring themes like the gang war.If I had to complain, I would have like to have seen more. I would have liked the shorts to have been longer, like 20 to 30 minutes. I think this level of animation and storytelling could, and should work as a excellent TV series, with a more adult audience because of the themes and violence.Worth watching if you can get it at a good price.
Because of the success of the Borat and Bruno Sasha Baron Cohen has been become a house hold name. But the price is that he can not use his faux documentary anymore. Now Cohen has created a new created a new comic character and sets out to tell it in a more traditional comic narrative.The oil rich North African nation of Wadiya has been ruled by the iron fist of a brutal bearded dictator, Admiral General Aladeen (Cohen). But he is a lonely soul, looking for someone to cuddle. Aladeen also plans to make a nuclear bomb and NATO are ready to attack his nation. Added to the mix Aladeen's uncle and adviser Tamir (Ben Kingsley) plans to overthrown him so he can bring in the horrors of democracy and opening the country's oil reserves to the outside world.When in New York Aladeen is kidnapped by an assassin (John C. Reilly) so Tamir and use a double to sign a new constitution. But Aladeen escape and finds an unlikely ally, activist and environmental store owner Zoey (Anna Faris), some Aladeen could use to get back his seat of power.There were three moments where I was laughing like a hyena, the helicopter scene, the bridge scene and Aladeen's final speech. The main reason why they worked is because they had a smart, edgy satirical take to them and I was roaring with laugher throughout. For the rest of the film the jokes were hit and miss. Cohen had great chemistry with Jason Mantzoukas as Aladeen's ally and it was clear that some of the bits were improvised. Faris too was solid, but Kingsley felt very out of place who did not bring anything to the table. The crueller jokes also fell flat for the most part. There are laughs to be had from when Aladeen is in the shop, early scenes when he is running the country and some of the shock humour, but other shock jokes were added because that was what the filmmakers thought that was what the audience expected, not thinking on whether it was a good joke or not. The main example is the Chinese businessman who shows off his power by getting male celebrities to give him blowjobs: it was just there give the audience a controversial joke even thought it was not funny.The plot itself follows typical Hollywood, following the route of what the character wants, i.e. power, but he needs is that love. But this is a film that should have played more with conventions, particularly that they made out that Tamir was actually wanted to bring democracy because he cared about people and human rights, not because he only cares about his own self-interest. When the Aladeen was reflecting on his loneliness I felt like he should be sing "I'm so Lonely". Also some of the best jokes in the trailer should have been in the film: those being the Megan Fox and the diamonds, America being the birthplace of AIDS and my favourite, "I am for free press, fair elections and equal rights for wo".There are funny moments in The Dictator but it is miss as much as hit in its humour and targets.
The Day the Earth Stood Still is considered on of the best sci-fi movies to come from the 1950s, standing along side Invasion of the Body Snatchers. It not just serve as a film for sci-fi fans, but also a commentary of the Cold War.A lone alien Klaatu (Michael Rennie) land his flying saucer in the middle of Washington D.C., with a message of good-will and peace, but get shot by a nervous solider. When he asks to meet all of Earth's leaders his request is met with death, so escapes from the American military's custody. On the run Klaatu hides in a boarding house and befriends Helen Benson (Patricia Neal) and her young son Bobby (Billy Gray). Seeing the short-term nature of humanity who see the alien as a threat he decides he needs to give the Earth a warning to ensure their listen to him. He has to do it before his robot protector Gort (Lock Martin) attacks humanity.The Day the Earth Stood Still has had an enduring legacy, having been remade in 2008 and been constantly referred to in Alan Moore's Watchmen. It was not only a film that wanted to be a big spectacle but a more thoughtful film about the nature of mankind and it's short-sighted nature and a commentary about the Cold War and the nuclear arms race, which would have led to the end of live as we know it.The special effects and action sequences are cheesy, particularly by today's standards but the director Richard Wise compensates through his characters and overall themes. His direction is more subtle looking at the world through Klaatu's eyes, with simple looks at the characters and their reactions. This is a film with likable characters where no one is treated as truly evil. The scene when Klaatu makes his final speech is particularly memorable.The acting of the main cast is decent, pretty standard for the period. Gray was not a particularly good child actor. But Rennie was very strong in the lead role as an alien not use to Earth's customs, a creature who is logical but believes in his cause. He is far from being a dull character.Obviously this is a film that does stretch believable logic, but it is worth watching.
The rom-comedy genre has been known for being very formulaic and often entries are a dime a dozen. It is hard to stand out of the crowd and it is often a genre that plays it safe. But I Give It a Year is a film that attempts to twist the rom-com clichés.Josh (Rafe Spall) and Nat (Rose Byrne) are a couple who after dating for seven months decide to get married, even though they friends and family think they are marrying too soon. And it turns out they are right with their marriage hits the rocks. Their eyes soon wonder to two American, Chloe (Anna Farris), Josh's ex-girlfriend and one of Nat's business clients, Guy (Simon Baker).Often the formula of rom-coms is that the guy or girl tries to win over someone there are often a series of mishaps and misunderstanding on the way. In I Give It a Year the main two characters are fighting for their marriage as they are two other suitors waiting in the wings. In style I Give it a Year was shot very much like other rom-coms like Bridget Jones, Love Actually and Notting Hill (Working Title made all those films) but I Give It a Year is more of an anti rom-com, being more willing to be risqué. There are some twists on typical rom-com clichés and there is a fine parody of a famous rom-com speech.I Give it a Year is the first film as a director for Borat writer Dan Mazar and most the humour was sex jokes or awkward/cringe humour and sometimes both. This was all summed up with Stephen Merchant in a show stealing performance giving us his trademark cringe humour and saying very politically incorrect at the most inappropriate times. Olivia Coleman as a bitter man-hating marriage counsellor who has some of the best lines in the film and great physical actions. But some of the jokes are overlong and the first joke where a priest is uncontrollably coughing led to me thinking what have I got myself in for.Spall and Byrne are fine actors. Spall was very good at playing a prat and Bryne was the straight character of the piece. But she is made to be more of the bad guy out of the pair as she is more willing to flirt with Guy and seeks him out as the marriage starts to crumble. The other love interests are also a bit too perfect, even trying to show Guy as the perfect (plus he owns a massive factory in Britain, why not make him British). The supporting cast are solid, particularly Minnie Driver and Jason Flyming as a marriage couple who hard each other.I Give It a Year is a fun film that will delight audiences. The cinema audience I saw it with enjoyed it. There are enough jokes and twists the rom-com genre to keep the film fresh.
Ever since Tom Cruise became a big name star he has always wanted to prove to the public that he is a serious actor and wanted to win an Oscar. His starring role in Rain Man was his first attempt at getting the Academy's attention but ended up getting upstaged by Dustin Hoffman.Charlie Babbit (Cruise) is a young, ambitious and selfish car dealer, importing Lamborghinis but is in the middle of a business problem when trying to sell them. He has an Italian girlfriend, Susanna (Valeria Golino) and his only real concerns are himself and money. When Charlie's estranged father dies and leaves him only a 1948 Buick Roadmaster and his prize rose bushes. His $3 Million goes to a unnamed beneficiary. When Charlie finds the route of the money he discovers that he has autistic older brother, Ray (Hoffman). Charlie takes Ray away from his home in Cincinnati and takes him on an cross-country journey as a bargaining tool to gain the money. On the way Charlie gets frustrated with Ray's needs and routine, not understanding his condition: but also slowly builds a relationship with this relative he did not know he had.For this role Mr. Cruise was in full scumbag mode and he has proved he can do repulsive roles really well. His character Charlie is truly a dislikeable character who only cares about himself; but the story of Charlie follows basic screen writing rules of what he wants and needs. What Charlie wants is money but what he really needs is a family and get to know his brother. Cruise was obviously trying to flex his acting muscles for this role. Hoffman made sure that he gave Ray a lot of traits like talking to himself and lives on a routine of certain food and television problems. He does seem like a man who lives in own world and can not interact with people. He does give a good performance and it was obvious Oscar bait. The two men work best during more tender moments where Charlie gets to find out more about Ray and their past and Charlie does develop a more caring bond with his brother.To me Barry Levinson is a hit and miss director: he has made some really good films like Sleepers and Wag the Dog, but he has made turkeys like Sphere to balance things out. With Rain Man he does a standard but he does have a few moments of flair: a moment I particularly liked was when the camera follows Charlie and Susanna when they are having an argument. But for most of the time all Levinson needs to do point the camera in the right place and let the actors just interact with each other and make sure there are some nice wide shots and make sure there is a decent editing job. But I did feel awkward at times involving how Ray interacted with people, particularly when Charlie and Ray are outside a farm house and Ray was about to have a fit. It was at times uncomfortable when the film was not tender.7.5 out of 10.
Moneyball was a successful film with both audiences and critics, working as a strong piece of entertainment for sports fans and non-sports fans alike. Based on a book by journalist Michael Lewis, Moneyball tells the story of the Oakland Athletics, one of the poorest teams in Major League Baseball who have to rebuild after the 2001 season after losing their three best players. General Manager Billy Beane (Brad Pitt) has to rebuild with limited resources and he takes a controversial approach when he hires a young Yale economics graduate, Peter Brand (Jonah Hill) to use a statistical approach to find the best undervalued players and create a winning team with the players no one else wants. But the pair are up against a sports establishment within the media and within the team and it seems like a highly risky experiment that could be doomed to failed.Moneyball works as both as sports film of an underdog going against the odds as a small team attempt to become contenders and earn a massive record and as a drama as Beane and Brand attempt to go against the system so they can cause a revolution. For someone who does not know much about baseball it was easy to follow and I could easily make comparisons to Premier League football.For a film about statistics and mathematic calculations it still interesting and direction by Bennett Miller does inject a lot of style when looking at formulas and spreadsheets. Throughout the film it has a similar style and look to The Social Network and can work well as a double bill.There is a find cast, Pitt, Hill and Phillip Seymour Hoffman being the biggest names and the highlights of the film. All of them give strong performances and along with the writing they all felt very real. They did seem to act like real people in their situation and we do get to dig deeper into Beane's character, from his relationship to his daughter and his ex-wife to his past where he was seen as a great prospect and how he is a betrayed by the traditional scouting system.Moneyball was a very well written film, with a great look at its characters and how they acted. It was great looking at the sport for fans whilst allowing non-fans to understand the sport. It feels organic as it processes and does not have the typical ending. Whilst it does seem to have some sports films clichés of the team seeming to be useless and bad and they turn good when they are up against, but in the context of the film it works and it is based on real events. Moneyball twist the conventions of the evil statisticians trying the rip the heart out of sport and instead shows how sport science has changed, whilst still acknowledging the fans and other factors like personal characteristics. This is also a film that looks at the back room staff of a sports club, showing the detail the scenes elements instead of solely looking at the on field activities. Even if you do not like sports films it works as a look at internal politics within an organisation and as a story about defying conventional or outdated thinking.The trailer for Moneyball marketed it as a witty, dialogue driven film in the vain of The Social Network and other Aaron Sorkin projects; but it was more a character driven drama and as a wider story about achieving with the resources you have. There are some fun lines, but on the whole the dialogue is mostly natural and down played.Moneyball is a solid drama and it shows how filmmakers can make a project about a subject they love whilst making it accessible to people who do not know much about Major League Baseball.
Based on a novel by Sapphire, Precious was a movie that had the backing a number of prominence African-Americans, Oprah Winfrey and Tyler Perry acted as producers, producer Lee Daniels was also the director and university lecturer Geoffrey S. Flecther adapted the novel. And this team made a very hard hitting, grim yet stylised film.Claireece "Precious" Jones (Gabourey Sidibe) is a 16-year-old obese, illiterate girl stack in Junior High in Harlem in 1987. She is pregnant with her second child after being raped by her father and she suffers at the hand of her mother's (Mo'Nique) constant physical and emotional abuse. Precious is her personal chef, feds Precious crap and tells her off for being fat and constantly calls her stupid, leading to a horrible self-filling prophecy and permanent low self-esteem. Her school also transfer Precious to an alternative school, seemingly as a punishment but it turns out to be a blessing in disguise, meeting a good teacher, Blu Rain (Paula Patton), helping her read and give her the confidence see needs.Even before watching the film you know it is going to be a tough watch because of the themes of rape, incest, child abuse and the harsh levels of poverty. If this was a British film it would have been a grim, kitchen sink drama, shot with a grey light and would have been depressing throughout. Lee Daniels instead went for a more stylised view, having Precious escape into fantasy, whether it was a dream sequence, or seeing a picture move. The colour pallet changes depending on the situation, from dark in the grim apartment she lives to being bright when she is the class room. Patton was almost given a heavenly glow. You really feel the abuse Precious suffers even though does not show many actual scenes of violence and only shows her face and fantasy when she is being raped.Daniels does some real risky casting choices and it pays off. Casting an unknown makes sense for the main character because the character is young and a big name would have been a distraction. But he cast a comedian for the most horrid, evil roles, Mariah Carrey as a unattractive social worker (a woman who never been that good at acting) and Lenny Kravitz, a singer who has never acted before. The cast was great, even the minor plays. Mo'Nique deserve her Oscar, she was a horrible evil character who had a different face to officials and at home some one who bullies. She was not redeemable, a selfish character who only though of herself. A spiteful person who only craves power. Sidibe had a very difficult role and she pulled it off as Precious starts off as a character with no confidence, hiding from the world and just wants to cruise in life because that is all she knows and what people expect from her. She is a character who suffers every way imaginable and needs help to let her reach her full potential. Patton is also a strong performer, a teacher with a quiet authority and able to handle some of the troublesome students a teacher could ever have.Armond White, the famous internet troll, complain that Precious undermines the idea of Black America as much as Birth of a Nation: his destroys his own argument by saying that Wayans brothers films have strong black themes. To me Precious is not a racist film, it is simply a film that shows the horrid nature of abuse within a family and the result would have been the same if the characters were written to be white. This was a film that was a criticism of the way the American state operates, how people fall into a welfare trap where they are forced to stay on it to live, how some people would exploit the system to get more and avoid work, how school classrooms are overloaded, teachers unable to attention to students and disciple is non-existent and social workers do not seem to care or pay attention. This is a film that praises the idea of someone getting a decent education so they could land a good job or at least be able raise up the ranks. Also this a film that shows people need to be able to stand for themselves, even though there are a lot of issues involving abuse.Precious is a very hard hitting film that is worth your time. A dark tale that allows a character to grow and acts as a criticism of an ill-effective state that needs to be improved.
Super 8 was one of the most anticipated films of 2011 but like with any film with high exception there is the risk becoming a major disappointment. Luckily it delivered and is both a highly entertaining film and has a heart.Set in the late 1970s in the town of a Lillian, Ohio, Joe Lamb (Joel Courntney) is a 13-year-old boy whom mother dies in a work place accident. His father (Kyle Chandler) is the Deputy Sheriff of the town and obviously struggling with the lost of his wife and having to care for his son. Joe's friend Charles (Riley Griffiths) is directing a zombie film, wanting to ever it into a film festival. Joe helps his friend and one night they film at a train station with Alice Dainard (Elle Franning) and the rest of their crew when a truck drives into a train and derails it. Quickly strange things happens in the town; dogs runaway, people disappear and there are power cuts. The military rolls into town. But whilst all this goes on the teens attempt to complete their film and Joe and Alice become closer.J.J. Abrams is a highly skilled writer and director and modelled his career on Steven Spielberg, not a bad model. But unlike say M. Night Shyamalan who did the same thing Abrams is able to vary his style. Whilst Super 8 is an entertaining, first pace film, Abrams made sure that the family and human drama was central to his film. We got to know his characters and their issues. We basically see the mystery and the events through the eyes of children and original people some unusual is happening. Some critics have compared Super 8 to Spielberg's early films, which makes sense because of his influence on the director and produced it, but I personally was reminded by of Stephen King stories, a group of original kids who get cause in some extraordinary event. There was fast paced action, the train clash was a really well made sequence, but the social drama was also interesting, whether it was Joe and his father having to face up to their relationship, the investigation by the police or Joe and Alice's budding relationship.Abrams was able to make his film a success without the need to cast big name actors. His young cast were skilled and natural, they actually felt like they were ordinary kids, not what some Hollywood hack thinks what they are like. They are made out to be individuals, they are slightly nerdy but Abrams avoided the clichés of cliques and bullies. The adults too are made out to be normal, ordinary people trying to cope with their domestic issues and affects on their communities.Super 8 is not perfect, there is a bit too much comic relief involving the characters for its own good and there are a few clichés: but it still a whether movie.
Charlie and the Chocolate Factory is an okay film, but does re-create the magic of the original and the dark tones does not fit for this type of children's film.I admit I not the biggest fan of Tim Burton, but he has made some good films such as he Batman films, Edward Scissorhand and Sweeney Todd. However, his remake of the Planet of the Apes was not particularly good, just making into a plain action film and has an ending that makes no sense.This version makes the world seem a more surreal place, the character are more over the top and Charlie lives in a small shack with his whole family, even sleeping in the same bed. The factory is more darker in lighting and Willy Wonka is made out to be a more unlikely character who does not like children. The Oompa-Loompas in this version also don't seem to fit as well as in the original version. The world outside should have been more down to earth but the factory a more wacky and fun, not dark and moody.The acting was good, Helena Botham Carter, an actress I like was the mum, Christopher Lee was Willy Wonka's father and the child actors were good. An example was AnnaSophia Robb who played Violet Beauregarde has become pretty successful, staring in Bridge to Terabithia and Jumper. Johnny Depp is a very good actor who normally gives it his all. He has a strong working relationship with Burton. It was believed that Johnny Depp based his performance on Michael Jackson and really hams it up, like Jack Nicholson did in Batman and Glenn Close in 102 Dalmatians.I also felt the music in the film was trying to be too contemporary, with the Oompa-Loompas rapping and making the film seem trying too hard be to 'down with the kids'.Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory left a strong legacy and is a good children's film. It has been parodied in shows like the Simpsons, Family Guy and Futurama. I do not picture that happening with Charlie and the Chocolate Factory. Also when people think of Oompa-Loompas they are more likely to think of original version, not the Burton version.Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory is not a bad film and I sure it did entertain a lot of people, but it is not a classic and the original was better.
In Hollywood's eternal quest to find potential franchises Paramount have turned to Lee Child's Jack Reacher series. Spanning 17 novels, the ninth of the series, One Shot has been adapted as a starring vehicle for Tom Cruise, much to dismay of the series' fans. But Jack Reacher ends up being an enjoyable crime-thriller, even if it does have some faults.In Pittsburgh a sniper seems to randomly kill five people outside of PNC Park, the home of the Pittsburgh Pirates. The police and DA Alex Rodin (Richard Jenkins) quickly find a suspect, a former army sniper, James Barr (Joseph Sikora) and the evidence against him is staggering. But when former army cop Jack Reacher (Cruise) shows up and starts to investigate he believes that Barr is being famed, despite his dislike for the man, and stumbles on a wider conspiracy.Jack Reacher is basically a modern American version of Sherlock Holmes, particularly the modern version given to us by Warner Brothers and the BBC. Reacher is a man with great foresight that can see clues, characteristics and patterns no one else can. He sees the faults and questions everything that is put in front of him and comes up with a logical conclusion. Like Sherlock, Reacher is a loner and focused on solving a case. Rosamund Pike's character, defence attorney Helen, act as Reacher's Watson as she plays her role of assisting Reacher, even if he has an ulterior motive. Whilst Reacher and Sherlock are social outcasts, Reacher is a drifter, someone who does not settle, a loner and more darker, brooding character who has a ruthless edge.One of the biggest complains of the film before it was even released was the casting of Cruise as a character that is describe to be 6ft 5in. and over 200 pounds. But he pulls off the role well, having presence when one screen, showing he have the action chops and it is entertaining to see someone fight dirty. Jack Reacher is also surprising funny with Cruise being supplied with some excellent lines and with his comic timing gave Reacher a dark wit. The only real problem with Reacher was that he felt too much like a superman and no one was able to match him in a fight. He was able to beat up numerous opponents that were armed single handed with ease. I know he is a top military officer but there are still some limits with what he can do.Jack Reacher is Christopher McQuirre's second film as a director and does a decent job. The action was well handed, from the fights, to the final gun battle and an excellent car chase which should remind you of the car chase in Bullitt. There is a hard hitting edge to the film, from guys getting hit in the testicles, Reacher getting hit in the back of the head with a baseball bat and Reacher shoving his thump in someone's eye. The action is well shot and edit, you can easily tell what is happening and it pushes what can be done with the PG-13 rating. In the UK the film was slightly cut to earn a 12A rating. The opening sequence in was filled with tension as a we look through as we see him prepare his deadly action, seeing it through the viewing scope as he picks his targets. McQuirre also borrows some techniques from Sherlock Holmes (2009) and CSI as we see alternative sceniros and looking at the evidence, but takes a deliberately less flashy approach.Whilst the film is solid it is not without problems. It's running time a bit too long and it could have been trimmed: particular because it felt like the novel had more subplots but cut down when in the film when they should have been removed from the film. The other major problem was the lack of motive for the bad guys whose big plan was to protect their dodgy construction deals: it's a bit of a disappointment, especially when you consider the backstory of the main bad guy. Finally the dialogue did offer a bit too much exposition at times, feeling a little too forced.One final minor point the musical score did sound very much like the music in the excellent PS3 game Heavy Rain. I just wanted to bring it up.Jack Reacher as a whole is entertaining enough film especially when the action kicks in, but it was a little unsure on whether it wanted to be a crime-thriller or an action-thriller. Jack Reacher himself is an American Sherlock Holmes with daps of Bullitt and Dirty Harry. It's worth a rental or stream.
Everyone knows that George Lucas is a master of cinema, giving us the Star Wars saga as a writer, director and producer and the Indiana Jones series as a producer. He went to the University of Southern California around the same time as other great directors like Steven Spielberg, Martin Scorsese and Francis Ford Coppolla. But every director has to start somewhere, and George Lucas' feature debut is a dyspotic sci-fi film based on of his student films.In the future mankind is living in an underground city, where they are constantly watched by a Big Brother like system and people take drugs to suppress emotions: already there are ideas taken from 1984 and A Brave New World. People who live in the city build robot law enforcement officers who keep control of mankind: a causing a vicious circle of control. The focus of the film is on THX 1138 (Robert Duvall), who is experience withdrawn symptoms from not taking the pills. He struggles with his new found emotions and sexual desires. Unknown to him, his partner LUH 3417 (Maggie McOmie) is replacing his pills with fakes. After the two give in to their illegal sexual desires they are put on trial and sent for rehabilitation. It is there when THX and another prisoner SEN 5241 (Donald Pleasence) attempt to escape the prison.Another who has ever read 1984, A Brave New World or We by Yevgeny Zamyatin can the influences on THX 1138. There is the way the society is watched, like in 1984 and We, the use of drugs to keep the lower levels of people under control i.e. A Brave New World, the way sex is regulated in all three novels, naming people after numbers from We and the use of women as catalysts of revolution. The look of the city in the film also reminded me of the classic silent film Metropolis, and both are wonderful examples of art direction. Lucas does explore some interesting ideas, namely the control of society and destroying emotions. Lucas takes care showing how this society would function and be govern. Robert Duvall is a terrific actor and he does a good job playing a character who is loyal to system but doesn't know what's happening to him. It is a good idea and well done. Because this is a world where emotions are control Lucas' weakness for dialogue isn't a problem: in fact it's an advantage, showing lack of poetry in the language. Lucas also directs a very good car chase and shows his talent for action. This is Lucas' darkest film and he does have a strength for it.But there are some problems with the film. Lucas does show some moments where it has no affect on the story, like a malfunctioning robot, it just felt random. Whilst Lucas' direction is good for the most part, it also felt too cold. Of course this is a film that doesn't need strong sentimentality, but its also about a man who is discovering his emotions the audience needs an emotional connection. Without it the audience is left feeling distance and therefore don't care about what happens. Finally this was based on on a student film, and it felt like a student film. It needed a more experienced hand (I mean at the time, not now). Scenes of particular note at the trial and the second act in the white prison void.However, if you want to see this film you may as well. It was decent, but could have been better.
Days of Glory is a multi-layered film about a small unit that served in the 17th Algerian Infactry during the Second World War. Before starting this review I think a quick history lesson is needed to help explain the film. The French history of Empire is very complex, and the most easiest way to explain it is it's a history of paradoxes: the French never investigated in their empire as much as the Britain, but it held such an important place in the psyche of the French, because if the Empire seemed strong then France was strong. Algeria also held a very place in French hearts because it was seen as place of France and rule from their Interior Minstry (and that's one of the reasons why the French fought so hard during the Algerian war in the 50s and 60s). Finally the North African territories were loyal to the Vinchy regime (which kept the Empire neutral) until Operation Torch when the territories switched to the allies and the Algerians thought they could get a better deal from the Free French.The film starts off very quickly when you see some of the Algerian soldiers getting recruited to fight for the Free French and taken to Morocco to be trained. This is not looked in at depth compared to films like the 9th Company or Full Metal Jacket. It then fast forwards to 1944 when the Algerians have to fight in some tough battles in Italy and then in the South of France. The scenes set in Italy were really well done. The Algerians fight bravely but are not respected by their French commanders. After fighting in Italy the ugly face of racism shows itself, and the Algerian troops face having less luxuries like types of food, are less educated then their French counterparts, having their post censured and blocked and no leave from the army. The reason why some of the Algerians fight is the hope that Algeria would become more respected by the French and get more rights. They believe in the ideas of France like equality and liberty but their question if it's true. Other join to escape the harshness of poverty and hope to make something of themselves in the army, maybe get the chance to settle in France after the war. Many social and political issues are touched on in this film, such as the army employing a quota system, and the issues of inter-racial relationships.Days of Glory has been compared to Saving Private Ryan, I personally don't think it's that fair a comparison. Saving Private Ryan was more about fighting during the Second World War, Days of Glory is more about the politics and society aspects of the Army. A more fair comparison would be with the American Civil War film Glory.The film is two longs, which is pretty short of a war film: as mentioned the recruitment and training of the army is brief but it doesn't lose any impact on the story. It is shot in an effective way and the war scenes were well handled, but I personally think that it could have been a little more violence, like in films like Saving Private Ryan and Brotherhood. The film also handle its subject matter well and you get to see all these issues in quite an average length film. It has a bitter-sweet ending which is fitting, and doesn't whitewash the issues compared to what a Hollywood film might do.The film also has some modern parallels. In France nowadays the North African population then to live in sink estates and racism is still an issue in the nation. Ethnic minorities are under represented in politics and the media in France. Racist policies have led to raids in main French cities in 2005 and in a recent football friendly French born North Africans booed the French national anthem during a match against Tunisa. Days of Glory has some positive affects, after the film was released and seen by the French government war-pensions for veterans from the Empire were re-introduced and paid in full.A small criticism of the film is that a small scene showed a propaganda effort by the Germans to get the Algerians to turn against the French. I felt that could have been played on a little more.All in all a very good film and worth watching if you are a fan of war films.
For a long time Family Guy's quality has been going downwards more and more. At the same time Seth MacFarlane was making his first feature film and his first foray in live-action, Ted and it was clear what his MacFarlane was putting his efforts into.In 1985 an 8-year-old boy, John Bennett (Bretton Manley) is a lonely boy with no friends who gets a teddy bear for Christmas. John wishes for the bear to come alive and guess what, he does. Ted quickly fame rises and falls and by 2012, he is a stoner loser living with John (now Mark Walhberg) and his girlfriend of four years, Lori (Mila Kunis). But when John has to choose between the two and the Ted habit is very hard to crack.Ted is simply a very funny film with various type of comedy, from excellent lines, risky humour we know from Family Guy, slapstick and fights and some gross out/crude jokes. There are only three cutaway gags in the whole film, one of them being a flashback and the other two are at least linked to the leading scene: so people do not like that style of humour do not worry. Whilst there is a bit of swearing unlike other R-rated films the swearing is not the only use of humour.As a story Ted is similar to Shaun of the Dead, that John has to pick his long time girlfriend that he lets down or his loyal childhood friend that is bad for him. It is a choose between friendship or romance, who should you be loyal to and a character trying to balance his life with two people he loves but do not get on. The other Simon Pegg/Nick Frost that Ted is similar to is Paul because Ted, a CGI, mo-cap character has very adult tendencies: he is a character he enjoys recreational drugs, women, prostitutes and a crass sense of humour. There are worst things to do then be similar to two Pegg/Frost films Walhberg has shown in recent years he has real comic talent and with MacFarlane has great relationship together. They both have get comic timing with their lines and the physical comedy. Kunis played the straight man role in Ted, but she has her moments and is solid with the duo. MacFarlane also get some of his Family Guy alumna in some small roles and was able to provide some fun celebrity cameos. The party sequence was hilarious and was much more fun and on the same level of realism as the offensive Project X.MacFarlane and his writers were able tie together the rom-com/bromance storyline with two major subplots very well and unlike what Family Guy can be, Ted is more focused on the story front. Occasionally it felt like the film did drag, but for the most part it is very Ted is what you get when MacFarlane actually puts effort into his work and when he focuses on a story. MacFarlane can be a very good writer when he gets the balances of being risky without being offensive just for the hell of it.On a final note, it is good to see a jokes in a trailer actually being used in the film they are promoting.
The first entry of The Hobbit trilogy was met with a mixed reaction by some, being too light, too comic and too long. The second film, The Hobbit: The Desolation of Smaug is the shortest movie in the series, strives for a much darker tone and begins to weave many of the trilogies plot lines together.Thorin (Richard Armitage), Bilbo (Martin Freeman) and the company of Dwarfs continuing their quest to The Lonely Mountain, in order to defeat the dragon Smaug (Bendict Cumberbatch) and reclaim the throne of Erebor. On their perilous journey through Mirkwood, the company end up clashing with the Elves, led by King Thranduil (Lee Pace) and Bard the Bowman (Luke Evans) of Lake-town. These two characters are but a few that hinder their journey before the final day of Autumn. A creature known as The Necromancer (also Cumberbatch) is summoning Orcs to the ruins of Dol Guldur, forcing Gandalf (Ian McKellen) to also face the new threat.The Hobbit: The Desolation of Smaug is a movie that contains sub-plots galore. Outside the main plot, involving the Dwarfs, Gandalf cleanses Dol Guldur, Thranduil attempts to shelter his people in his borders, the political rivalries between Bard and The Master of Lake-town (Stephen Fry), Bilbo suffering from the effects of The Ring, Tauriel (Evangeline Lilly), the Captain of the Thranduil, guards wanting the elves to face the Orc threat and a love triangle between Taureil, Thranduil's son Legolas (Orlando Bloom) and Kili the dwarf (Aiden Turner). That a is a lot to handle even for a film that is 161 minutes long and for someone of Peter Jackson's previous experience in Middle Earth, some of the subplots get sidelined. The subplot involving Bilbo's corruption and hearing voices in his head is a presence at the beginning movie, but is ignored later on.The Hobbit is short novel and straight adaptation would have been a 2 hour, 30 minute movie. To add to the movie the screenplay supplement with the use of appendixes in The Lord of the Rings, some elements of the Unfinished Tales collection of short stories and the filmmakers own creative license. Tauriel is an original character created solely for the movie and Legolas had no role in the timeline. The events in Lake-town were also greatly altered from the original novel.Unlike previous entries in the Lord of the Rings series The Hobbit: The Desolation of Smaug is the first time we look at the North of Middle-Earth. The tensions and policies are explored and showing that the Elf kingdom is insular and does not want to get involved with the wider world and the people of Lake-town are divided. Anti-dwarf prejudice is touched on, as dwarfs are seem as greedy, selfish and short-sighted and only one level above Orcs.One of the big themes is greed and lust; both for wealth and power. There is physical manifestation with Bilbo starting to see himself and savagely killing a spider, the Master of Lake Town seeking wealth and power, leading to the mismanagement of the town, Smaug not wanting to give up any his ill gotten gains. Thorin also suffers from greed, which affect his judgement, his relationships with his comrades and is forewarned that he could end up like his grandfather.There is plenty of energy in the movie's action sequences, the highlight being the river chase as the Orcs, Dwarfs and Elves are in a battle, filled with decapitations and arrows to Orcs' heads. Both Legolas and Tauriel are given plenty of chances to show their action credentials, though since this is a prequel we know that Legolas is immune from any perky incidents like an axe to the head. The final battle with Smaug is also ramped up from the book, giving Bilbo and the Dwarfs a larger role.The first act and the third act are great with its pacing, action and character development. Its the middle of the movie that The Desolation of Smaug slows down, a little too much. This is the case of the events in Lake-town as the Dwarfs try to prepare for the final leg of their journey. It is at this point when Bilbo does not have much of a presence in his own movie.The Dwarfs are give more chance to shine this time role. In the first Hobbit movie, Ken Stott and James Nesbit were the Dwarfs with the most screen time: in the sequel Graham McTavish as Dwalin was more noticeable with his aggression, Kili is given a background and even the silent Bombur (Stephen Hunter) is shown to be very strong despite his weight problem.The Hobbit: Desolation of Smaug will give fans their Middle-Earth and is successful at solving some of the issues of the first Hobbit movie. The tone is darker and the action is much less cartoony. The Hobbit is proof of being the pinnacle of the fantasy genre and this second film still proves that.Please visit www.entertainmentfuse.com
Ever since Marvel Studios started turning its properties into films with the release of Iron Man in 2008, The Avengers was always going to be the endgame in one of the most ambitious blockbusters projects in recent times. Fans have been dying to know  is it worth the wait? In The Avengers, Thor's brother Loki (Tom Hiddleston) has set his sights on the conquest of Earth and makes an alliance with the alien race called the Chitauri to give him the army he needs. To bring the Chitauri to Earth, however, Loki needs the all-powerful Tesseract (AKA the Comic Cube). Breaking into a S.H.I.E.L.D. facility, Loki steals the Tesseract, which forces Nick Fury (Samuel L. Jackson) to reactivate the Avengers Initiative, uniting Earth's Mightiest Heroes: Tony Stark/Iron Man (Robert Downey Jr.), Bruce Banner/The Hulk (Mark Ruffalo), the recently defrosted Captain America (Chris Evans), Thor (Chris Hemsworth), the deadly accurate archer Hawkeye (Jeremy Renner) and deadly thighs super spy Natasha Romanoff/Black Widow (Scarlett Johannson). To stop this new threat, they must all use their physical and mental abilities  and work together.By allowing all the major characters their own films, we have presumably gotten to know them, so the film doesn't have to waste time with introductions and can jump straight into the action. In the first 10 minutes, Loki breaks into a S.H.I.E.L.D. facility with plenty of gun fire, magic blasts and car chases. Although an early fight scene involving Black Widow was a bit weak, using too many quick cuts and close-ups, the rest of the action ranges from good to fantastic.There are three big action highlights: a three way fight between our heroes, a battle on the S.H.I.E.L.D. Helicarrier and the climactic Battle of the New York. They are all well-shot, perfectly edited sequences. Even though there is a lot going on, like the Helicarrier sequence in which many of the characters are fighting in different areas, it is still easy to follow thanks to the editing skill. The massive Battle of New York has a very similar feel to the Battle of Chicago in Transformers: Dark of the Moon, but unlike Bay, Whedon knows the focus needs to be on the superheroes battling alien invaders.As you fantasised about, the Avengers are finally together and they all have great chemistry. Downey continues to show off his quick wit, but Tony Stark has finally found a intelligential equal in the form of Bruce Banner; both talk enough techno babble to put Star Trek to shame. Downey keeps a reckless side to Stark as he tries to taunt Banner into becoming the Hulk. Stark is distrustful, cocky and unwilling to work with others, but he learns, and when push comes to shove he becomes a team player who shows what a true hero is.Evans was an excellent Captain America, bringing out all the nobility, resourcefulness and willingness to step into danger that makes the character famous. He stills has his values, and despite being arguably the weakest of the main four, he's willing to stand his ground. When the Battle of New York starts, he shows his leadership skills as he helps civilians to safety. Despite the fact he should be adjusting to the modern world, he answers his call to duty.Ruffalo offers us the best performance yet as Bruce Banner, making him a stoic and reserved character, not the dower being he has been in the past. Banner is a brilliant scientist who is more agreeing of the Hulk. He offers some darkness as he reveals his past, but it does not linger as he tries to be good. As the Hulk, Ruffalo gets to kick alien butt and provide us with some great action set pieces, and he even provides a lot of comedy through this physical actions and expert comic timing.Thor does not go through any character growth, but that is because most of it happened in Thor (2011). It is simply a continuation of what happened previously, showing Thor has matured. Hemsworth continues with his grand performance as the Norse God and even has an odd joke.Tom Hiddleston continues to show he is a great and compelling villain. Hiddleston keeps Loki's oily charisma and the aura of mystery that his plans and actions are never clear until the last moment. He has a bigger thirst for power and he's more menacing and threatening: he kills a man in front of a group people just for purposes of an eye scan. Hiddleston offers a very theatrical performance and he more than holds his own with Jackson and Downey in his villainous delivery.Joss Whedon was an inspired choice to write and direct because of his knowledge and love for the source material. He was able to blend together the different elements seamlessly, whether it was sci-fi, technological, fantasy or espionage and makes sure all the previous films were recognized. The characters were balanced, no one is sidelined and everyone has a moment to shine in some form. The dialogue was witty with some keen observations such as Captain America not understanding a modern reference and other instances of humour in their general interactions when the action was not happening.The Avengers is a very entertaining film that continues Marvel's excellent track record in filmmaking. Despite the long running time, the film is never dull and only people with the biggest aversion to superhero films would dislike Marvel's latest adventure. This film has set the bar very high for this year's blockbuster season.As a final note, there is a post credits scene that happens in the middle of the credits, but word is that for the North American release, the "extra scene" rumored to have been filmed at the premiere runs at the very end. So, you'll want to stay in your seat til the very very end.Please visit www.playeraffinity.com
Rosemary's Baby was recommended to me by a friend who is fan of horror cinema. I am personally not a horror fan, but this does have Roman Polanski directing it, and I do like films like The Exorcist and The Omen. I prefer those films, but Rosemary's Baby is still pretty good, taking a more down to Earth approach, despite its more supernatural themes.Rosemary and Guy Woodhouse (Mia Farrow and John Cassavetes) are a young couple living in New York. Guy is an actor, who had some work in plays and in TV ads. They find a nice large apartment in a more historic building and move in quickly. They befriend an elderly couple, Roman and Minnie Castevet (Sidney Blackmer and Ruth Gordon). But Rosemary's old friend tells them of weirds things that happened in the building. Rosemary and Guy try for a baby. She becomes pregnant, and ends up seeing one of best doctor's in New York. But it is a difficult pregnancy, suffering a lot of pain, becoming very weak and pale and Rosemary even ends up doing strangle things like eating raw meat. Rosemary ends ups suspecting a conspiracy, hearing weird chanting and seeing people getting hurt. She does whatever she can to protect her unborn baby.Rosemary's Baby is a watershed film in the world of horror cinema. It proved that horror films could be very well done, and led to The Exorcist and The Omen being made: film following similar themes. It also shows that proper filmmakers can do horror films. Polanski takes a more subtle approach to the film, making it more as a thriller then a horror. Most of the supernatural elements can be logically explained. This is a film that makes you think and linger in your head rather then getting scared throughout it. The ending has an excellent twist ending to the film, giving Rosemary's Baby a haunting quality. Like any good horror film, there is a major fear that people could relate to. The theme out this is about what could go wrong with a pregnancy and doing everything you can to protect your child. I sure any parent could relate to that. There is also the theme of paranoid, with the feeling that the world is out to get you. There is also the use religious ideas, like Catholicism, the Occult and Witchcraft, and of a marriage which isn't that stable. Another major feature of any good horror film is compelling characters which you actually care about. You do care for Rosemary who is a nice woman who is forced into a dark world. You want her to succeed in protecting her child. You know something is wrong with the other characters in the film, and slowly see their game. They are villains you can truly dislike.There are good scenes, and excellent camera by Polanski. I like scenes in films where the camera follows the character. There are some haunting scenes where you think about the horror of it later. Polanski did not go for cheap scares.A pretty good film. 4 out of 5.
The holocaust has offered some very good and important films in cinematic history, such as Schindler's List, Sophie's Choice and the Pianist, but they have Hollywood productions. German and Austrian cinema has often avoided the second World War as subject matter and it's only now that the younger generation is facing up to it, making great films like Downfall. This is a good example of a film that can be produced by though two countries.The film tells the story of Salomon 'Sally' Sorowitsch (Karl Markovics), a expert Jewish counterfeiter living in Germany. He gets arrested and sent to a hard labour camp where his talents as an artist get him noticed by Nazi commanders. He gets off lightly and ends up being sent to work in Sachsenhausen concentration camp, and assigned to Operation Bernhard. The aim of Operation Bernhard was to make fake British and American currency, flood the nations with them and ruining their economies by making inflection sky-high. It also helped the German war effort by giving them foreign currency to spend. Sorwitsch and the Jews who work in the operation are given better treatment then the rest of the Jews at the camp, but are in an impossible situation: if they do what the Nazis tell them they will get better treatment, but will be helping the Nazis win the war and possibly get killed after the war, or if they don't help they put their will put all the Jews lives at risk and the Nazis will carry on regardless. Sorwitsch has to walk a fine line between all the different factors, including Herzog (Devid Striesow), the SS Commander, and Burger (August Diehl), a very ideological man who resists and delays the operation as much as possible. Sorwitsch has to walk through a moral minefield.There is excellent acting throughout the film. It is of a high standard, as it needs to be in a film like this (but admittedly I look for excellent acting in every film I watch). Karl Markovics and Devid Striesow bring out the very complex natures of their characters.The writer/director Stefan Ruzowitzky is a very good storyteller. He has a very earthy style of film-making, using hand-held cameras to follow the action, using as few cuts as possible and thereby giving the film a bit of a document feel. It is not a grossy film. He shows that even the complex nature of the story, and that even for these Jews, who were the lucky ones, their still have the treat of death, and their living conditions were still rustic. There is a excellent script and some how Ruzowitzky tells the story in a very conformable one hour and thirty minutes. Hell, he could have made it longer up to two hours and his would have still been considered short to Schindler's List and The Pianist. He fits in a lot in his lot in a short space of time, he can give directors like Michael Bay a lesson who takes 2 and half hours to say nothing at all.As mentioned the film also raises the moral dilemma of what is better, survive or die a martyr. It asks what is the better form of victory, whether to survive the war or die if it prevents harm. It raises an interesting debate.I do however have to knock some points for historical inaccuracies. The film makes out that Operation Bernhard was a last ditch effort by the Nazis, being formed in 1945. In reality it started in 1939, and was very big in 1942 and 43. The film also is a bit more negative towards the commander of the project who in real life told the Jews to work as slowly as possibly when trying to make the dollar. It demanded the German war effort and saved the lives of some Jews.This is a very good film and a deserved Oscar winner for best foreign language film.
Following the failure that was Star Trek V: The Final Frontier the Star Trek series with the original cast was seemingly dead, thanks to the poor critical reception and the aging cast. But with the success of Star Trek: The New Generation and the 25th Anniversary to the show the original cast was given one last hurrah with the sixth Star Trek film.After years of hostiles between The Federation of Planets and the Klingon Empire are set to enter into peace negotiations after one of Klingon's moons explodes and leaving the Klingon homeworld 50 years of life left. Spock (Leonard Nimoy) had been leading the negotiations and James T. Kirk (William Shatner) and the Enterprise are tasked with the mission to escort the Klingon High Chancellor (David Warner) and his entourage to Earth, despite his hatred for Klingon after the death of his son. But Kirk is famed for the assassination of the High Chancellor, threatening war as forces on both sides wanting keep the status quo.Director of "The Wrath of Khan" Nicholas Meyer was brought in to direct co-write the sixth entry and he does an excellent job. They is an obvious Cold War allegory with the collapse of the Soviet Union going on at the same time as the film was being made. There were deliberate uses of pharses such as Cold Warrior and the end of history. There are themes about the unknown and the changing course of international relations , the distrust of an old enemy which raises the questions about each other's motives and people's not wanting change. There are more obvious parallels with the destruction of the Klington moon being caused by poor safety conditions and causing environmental destruction like Chernobyl and stating that the Klingons had over spend on their military.I was not that interested in Star Trek before the J.J. Abrams reboot, so it is now that I am giving the original series a go. What I liked about this The Undiscovered Country is that this film explores more the political and military aspects of the Star Trek universe and being about to focus on politics and intergalactic relations, giving the world a more realistic feel whilst also being a political thriller.Meyer does make a good looking film, it is clear he had more money to world with then he did with his second Trek film. The sets look great, looking more authentic and polished then in some of the previous entries. The models are solid and they is an excellent make-up jobs and use of special effects such as the shapeshifting. An intense sequence I personally enjoyed was the assassination of the High Chancellor, when two men in white suits and helmets go through the weightless environment of the Klingon ship and shooting everyone in the way. It was a visually striking sequence with it us of colours and well done use of a slow pace."The Undiscovered Country" is a excellent send off for the original cast, giving them one very important mission that ensures a lasting change to their universe and allow them to retire with dignity.
Tim Burton is obviously is one of the most respected directors around, having made excellent films like Ed Wood and Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barbar of Fleet Street. He had made films that have appealed to families to more adult-aimed films. But Tim Burton has also been a director who can also get things very wrong, like with Mars Attack and Planet of the Apes. With Alice in Wonderland Tim Burton directs a sequel to the Lewis Carroll story, and he is given us a film that has many good and bad points.Mia Wasikowska plays Alice Kingsleigh, a nineteen-year-old woman living in the upper ends of Victorian Society. She is a intelligent woman, quick witted, but doesn't like living her surroundings. She is also a woman who from the age of six had a recurring dream involving strange creatures, likes a smiling cat and a blue caterpillar. After being proposed by a very wet fellow, Alice runs away, following a White Rabbit (Michael Sheen). Alice falls into Wonderland, believing she is in a dream: but their is a debate within the creatures of Wonderland if she is the right Alice. But since Alice last was in Wonderland, the Red Queen (Helena Bonham Carter), had taken over and overthrown the White Queen (Anne Hathaway). It's prophesied that only Alice can stop the Red Queen's reign of terror, and kill her dragon, the Jabberwocky. To aid Alice she forms a group of allies, including the Mad Hatter (Johnny Depp), The Cheshire Cat (Stephen Fry), the Dormouse (Barbara Windsor) and Tweedledee (Matt Lucas) and Tweedledum (Matt Lucas).As stated Tim Burton is a good director with a wild imagination. With Alice in Wonderland is able to create a large, grant world with the aid of green screen technology. He shows a wide range of creatures, and even plays on the idea of a dragon. He design for the Red Queen is excellent, and the Mad Hatter's schizophrenia. But sadly this is also one of Burton's most heartless films, feeling like he was doing so he can do another project. They seems to be a lack of depth within this film and doesn't use the ideas this film created. Also some the the CGI was not as strong as it could have been. Alice in Wonderland has proved to be a successful 3D and along with the success of Avatar Hollywood executives are wetting themselves with excitement, hoping to have a money spinner with 3D. But whilst the 3D with Avatar took years of effort and had special cameras developed to film it, Alice in Wonderland was done retrospectively: with computer experts making the 3D from 2D film. But the 3D in Alice in Wonderland is weak in comparsion. It lacks the effectiveness, and many things were literally thrown at the audience. This shows that retrofitting 3D into films is not the future, and films like Avatar should be a rare treat, not the norm. The script by Linda Woolverton is not as a strong as it could have been. She doesn't use up all the ideas she created, and much of the characterisation is thin. She does try to write a fun film for all the family, with enough of a dark edge for young adults. But they should have been more fun in the film, and particularly more humour.Tim Burton has found an excellent new star with Mia Wasikowska: a young Aussie with a great future in front of him. She is the best performance in the film, able to show Alice as a quick witted young woman who still has the clouds of doubt over her head. Alice is tough cookie in this film and doesn't want to be dictated to. Burton also goes to his regular actors, Johnny Depp and Helena Bonham Carter. It is rare for Depp to give a bad performance, and with he does create a character who delightedly mad, and shows to have spats of anger. He even give the audience a good Scottish accent when made. But despite Depp and Burton saying they wanted to bring more depth to the Mad Hatter, they sadly fail to do this. Bonham Carter is one of the best actresses around and she is also good in the film. She makes a great villain, who is prone to anger issues, and her character is given more depth, having a longing to be loved and issues with her looks. But the Red Queen also felt like a superfisical character. The real waste in the film is Anne Hathaway. Hathaway does have a few good moments, particularly comedic moments, but her character is given little screen time, and again, little depth. An smaller name actress or a good comedian could have been just as effective in the role.Overall there are good action scenes, and it should appeal to all but very young children. Mia Wasikowska shows she is an actress with a future, and there is enough or Tim Burton's die-hard fans to like. But this was a film in need of a stronger script.
Before I start, I am not really a fan of Ben Stiller or American comedy films generally, I didn't have high hopes for this film. However, I was pleasantly surprised.The plot of the film is about the filming of a Vietnam film based on an ex-serviceman's memoirs. It was going to start Tugg Speedman (Ben Stiller), Kirk Lazarus (Robert Downey Jr.) and Jeff Portney (Jack Black). They are all highly paid prima donna actors and their director is a British rookie (Steve Coogan). Tugg is a faying action star who is trying to become a serious actor, similar to Sylvester Stallone. Kirk, a serious Australian Oscar winning actor who has angry issues. He is basically a parody of Russell Crowe and how far some actors would go to do a role. Jeff is a comedian tried actor who just does family comedies and just uses the lowest common dominator (i.e. farting) and addicted to heroin. There are troubles on the set and the actors and director clash early on in the film shoot. It is suggested by the author of the book (Nick Nolte) to take them go to the middle of the Vietnamese jungle and make them into men. The director hoped to help his film to go back on track and make it more realist. Unforuately they ended up going into the middle of a war zone, dominated by drug lords.What makes this film work is that it is a little more intelligent then most frat pack films. It parodies a lot of Vietnam films, especially Platoon and Apocalypse Now. It is also a parody on Hollywood itself, on all people who are involved in the filming process. There are jokes that will please everyone in the film; from the faux trailers, jokes about Hollywood and general jokes parted on the delivery. Out of the main three cast Robert Downey Jr. is the best, but Ben Stiller and Jack Black were still gone. There are also very good guest performances from Matthew McConaughey and Tom Cruise: especially Cruise who gets to shout some very fun insults. Its also good to see that Steve Coogan is getting work. There are also a lot of cameos to keep an eye out for.However, I really could have done without the dancing.Basically it is a good comedy, and I recommend it.
David Fincher has made a good career for himself making thrillers, Se7en and Fight Club both excellent films. Zodiac is another fine addition to Fincher's filmography.Zodiac tells the story of the infamous Zodiac killer who terrorised the San Francisco area in the late 60s and early 70s. He played mind tricks with the media and the police, sending letters to newspapers, including the San Francisco Chronicle. The focus of the film is on Robert Graysmith (Jake Gyllenhaal), a political cartoonist for the Chronicle and a single parent. He is good at puzzles and takes an interest in the Zodiac case. Other major characters are Paul Avery (Robert Downey Jr.), the crime reporter for the newspaper and San Francisco police detectives Dave Toschi (Mark Ruffalo) and Bill Armstrong (Anthony Edwards) who were all investigating the case. The media and the police have to work together in the case, especially because the killer makes violence threats. After more murders the police do find a prime suspect and the media get involved in the investigation, but are unable to press charges because some of the evidence doesn't fit.Years later, Robert Graysmith is still interested in the Zodiac case, even though he is married and has more children. He ends up investigating the case himself, started to write a book. He ends up being obsessed, his wife Melanie (Chloë Sevigny) becomes worried for the family's safety.Zodiac has an excellent cast, Robert Downey Jr. had done really well recently with Iron Man and Tropic Thunder. Mark Ruffalo was a good as the determined police officer. There are even good supporting actors such as Brian Cox, an amazing actor. Jake Gyllenhaal seemed a little too young for his role, but he is very talented actor and I ended up believing in his performance.Fincher is a talented director, know exactly when to add to the tension and has a very stylist type of directing. The beginning is shot in the style of a 60s film and the rest, in a modern thriller. It has a similar feel to All the President's Men. A smart move by Fincher is never showing the killer's face.James Vanderbilt also writes a good script for the film, looking at the police investigation, the media and the way the 60s and 70s were. I am looking for to see his work with Spiderman 4.Zodiac was a excellent thriller and it was a shame that it was nominated for Oscars such at Best Picture, Best Director and Best Actor, even if it couldn't win.
Steven Soderbergh has been a prolific director, making many films the Oceans films, Traffic, Erin Brockovich, Contagion, etc Behind the Candelabra is set to be last film (watch this space), a bio-pic about the pianist Liberace and his relationship with a much younger man, Scott Thorson. Despite being nominated for the Palme d'Or at Cannes and earning a theatrical release in Europe, Behind the Candelabra was considered 'too gay' by Hollywood and was only a TV film in America.Scott (Matt Damon) is a young bisexual man who wants to become a vet. His friend introduces him to Liberace (Michael Douglas) after a concert and Liberace is a man who gets what he wants. Liberace hires Scott as his personal helper and the two embark on a relationship. But Scott falls for Liberace's manipulations and falls into a world of drugs as the relationship soars.The best aspect of Behind the Candelabra is cast. The film has a great cast, as well as Damon and Douglas there are there are top actors such as Dan Aykroyd, Scott Bakula and Rob Lowe in supporting roles and there were all strong. But it is the Damon and Douglas show as Damon plays a young man who has a decent personality and gets corrupted by Liberace into a world of drugs and Liberace is made out to be a creepy, manipulative figure during his courting of Scott.Behind the Candelabra is a thematic film exploring a few ideas. One of them is the corruption of Scott's character from a decent caring man who degrades from his ambition to someone who falls into a world of glamour, drugs and dependence on diet pills. Whilst Liberace is creepy in the way he wheels Scott into his world and the film explore the idea on whether he was looking for a lover or a son/clone/successor: he actually tries physically alter Scott into himself via plastic surgery and Liberace's previous partner who dressed just like him. Liberace is made out to be a very controlling figure, who wants a puppet and if they show any resistance Liberace will ditch them want he finds someone else. Another theme is about Liberace who despite his highly camp persona seems to be very ashamed of his sexuality, hiding it from the public and hiding Scott from the majority of people.Behind the Candelabra was made with the intend of being a cinematic release, but it did look and feel like a TV film, which is disappointing considering that Soderbergh directed. Soderbergh and his team do try to make a Boogie Nights style film with its frank look at sex, its time period and Scott going through a rise and fall (though he is a smarter character): but there is no flair that Soderbergh is known for and this is film crying out for it. There are some nice little camera movements but on the whole this is a film that plays it very safe with its visuals. Even worst is the slow pace pacing, especially at the end where the film feels like it is going on and on.Tonally the film starts off a fairly light hearted comic tone with some decent jokes that should raise a smile and chuckle. But as the film processes it turns darker and more serious as we explore this relationship, how Liberace uses Scott and how Scott falls into drug taking. It is a fine procession with the film having its sinister underbelly and gets explored gradually exposed.As you would expect from a film about Liberace the music is excellent and Marvin Hamlisch does supply an great score to compliment the film.At the time of this review Behind the Candelabra has a 93% rating on Rotten Tomatoes. But the 7.1/10 rating on IMDb is much more actuate because the film is decent and no more then that.
The 1992 film Bad Lieutenant was and still is a very controversial film that easily divides film fans and critics.Harvey Keitel stars as the Lieutenant in question, a police detective who is addicted to hard drugs, has sex with prostitutes and has heavy gambling debts. He attempts to get out of debt by betting more money on the World Series Games between the New York Mets and L.A. Dodgers, falling into a deeper void of drugs as he investigates the brutal rape of a nun (Frankie Thorn), a nun who is willing to forgive her attackers.Bad Lieutenant is a very dark, bleak film, centred around an excellent performance by Keitel. Keitel and his character goes through the ringer as the Lieutenant succumb to his drug addiction, taking its toll on him physically and mental. The Lieutenant goes through hell and we see him get more and more wound out during the film as he loses grit.Director Abel Ferrara makes a very grimy film, having a 70s look to it Sepico and Taxi Driver. The film is set in the roughest, run down areas of New York City and the city is made to be a cesspool of a place which is crime filled where people are gather round crime scenes. This is amplified by the style of direction, using plenty of wide shots and long takes, letting scenes play to their shocking conclusions and giving the actors mostly uninterrupted performances.Bad Lieutenant is very much an art house film about the decline of a man in a world of sin, embarking on sin and someone willing to forgive the people who did the most horrific act possible. It is a brutal, unpleasant work and Ferrara takes very surreal turns with his use of Catholic iconography.Bad Lieutenant is deserving of its controversial status with its violence, sex and it notorious rape scene. But it a interesting art house film as we explore one corrupt cop going into the depth of his own personal hell.
Next to chocolate and waffles, Tintin is one of Belgium's greatest exports, a character beloved by millions all over the world. Now, Steven Spielberg and Peter Jackson have taken on the challenge of bringing the young reporter to motion-captured life.Tintin (Jamie Bell) is a successful and famous journalist who has worked on a number of high-profile stories. He stumbles into a new adventure when he buys a model ship that drops him into a historical mystery involving sunken treasure and a centuries-long feud between two families. Along the way, he has to stop the dastardly Sakharine (Daniel Craig), find the clues to the treasure and work with the alcoholic Captain Haddock (Andy Serkis), who must reclaim his ancestor's treasure and lift a curse that has plagued his family.The casting is absolutely pitch-perfect throughout. Bell and Serkis truly are Tintin and Haddock, a chalk-and-cheese relationship with Tintin as the man who has to keep Haddock on the straight and narrow. Tintin possesses more of a deadpan intelligence, whereas Haddock is a reactionary bruiser. Craig too makes a great villain; his voice was almost unrecognisable throughout as he ruthlessly fulfills his ancestors' tradition of thievery. Simon Pegg and Nick Frost continue their great double act as the bumbling detectives Thompson and Thompson. Snowy the pup will easily challenge Gromit and Milo (from The Mask) for best movie dog.From the getgo, there are plenty of homages and references to other "Tintin" stories that will please fans. Spielberg shows respect for the material, for the most part, while still make a movie the whole family can enjoy. It's a historical and modern mystery with a family feud, a treasure hunt, international adventure and bits of action-comedy tossed in.This light romp matches the tone and style of Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade with plenty of homages to previous Spielberg films. Spielberg kept the period setting and uses a film noir style for the city scenes, fitting for the classic look of old cars, clothes and guns. This movie is a proper, old-fashioned adventure that takes Tintin and Haddock to exotic locations that would have still been a mystery in the 1930s. It was particularly impressive during a sequence when the movie flashes back and forth between the present to a pirate battle in the 17th Century in terms of how it was cut together. The entire production was action-packed, exciting and comic.The comedy of "Tintin" was mostly physical, slapstick or revolved around Haddock's alcoholism (because alcoholism is always funny). There are some witty lines and jokes for older audiences, but there are a couple of jokes involving burping when you would expect Spielberg and "Tintin" to be above that.We all know that previous full motion capture films have failed to impress. But The Adventures of Tintin delivers with realistic little details such as freckles along cartoonish features. Because of the animated world, Spielberg was not limited by the realities of a practical filmmaker and came up with really impressive action sequences throughout. He certainly knows action and it is impressive that the effects in "Tintin" were more realistic than in Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull.
Clint Eastwood is often since as one of the greats of the Western genre, both as an actor and as a director. His first Western as a director was the very dark, morally bleak High Plains Drifter.Eastwood stars as a mysterious stranger who comes to the small desert town of Lago. He makes his presence known by killing three men and raping a woman. The Stranger is hired by the townspeople to lead the defence against three newly released prisoners who want revenge against the town. But The Stranger's presence leads to conflict within the town as he is given carte blanche to do whatever he wants as the townspeople have their own dark secret.High Plains Drifter is a dark, violent film set in amoral world. There are few likable characters as violence is a way of life and there are moral dilemmas are presented in the film, such as the hiring of a man who rapes, the town's willingness to frame three power hungry thugs that were hired by the mining company and the town's witnessing of the death of the old sheriff and not doing anything to help him. The whipped scene reminded me of the story the murder of Kitty Genovese who was murdered and no one in her apartment block helped her despite her screams: and it turned out that the writer was heavily influenced by that cast.High Plains Drifter does have a supernatural edge to it, being more ambiguous about the main character, his actions and his motives. There is an eerie quality throughout, particularly from the music which uses a synthetic music. This is a film that is very open to interpretation, particularly the ending.Eastwood does have some ambitious shots for the top, using hand-held cameras to great effect to follow the actions, including during the assault on the town and a quick moment of seeing some shooting in the first person.High Plains Drifter is one a more artistic effort from Eastwood, showing a world of moral greys, being revisionist to the Western genre. It is a film that is a ghost story as it is a Western film and can easily please the fans of Eastwood's work.
I was never a fun of the original show and I didn't think that I would like this version, but after the first few episodes I was hooked. This is the BBC trying to challenge American programs like Lost and Buffy the Vampire Slayer for cinematic like quality and a vast story arc. The other problem is that the BBC spread a lot of money on Doctor Who and thereby forces them to make some cheap rubbish problem, but this is an issue about the funding of the BBC is a different issue.Doctor Who has had two good actors playing the title role, Christopher Eccleston and David Tennant. I think Eccleston is the better actor and is very good at playing the Doctor as a tortured character, but Tennant is the better Doctor overall. Billie Piper and Freema Agyeman were both good and I did fear Catherine Tate would ruin Doctor Who, but she has been alright in the role as Donna Noble. The show is well written and there is a story arc to it and recurring themes. The show has action, lots of science, can be humorous and little hearted and other times dark and very scary. It can also be psychological and sociological in its approach. The show looks at the past and the future and has a wide scoop for plots. I personally enjoy it when the Daleks are in the program and I really hope Davros makes a come back in the show. The show can be cheesy and hammy sometimes, but I can live with that and that was the spirit of the old show. The CGI can be very impressive, such as in the episode 'The Impossible Planet', but can also be weak, but that is a problem that shows like Lost suffer because the budget is spread more thinly.Russell T. Davies has just said that he is leaving the show, which is a shame because he was the reason why Doctor Who was such a success, but I hope that the quality of the show isn't affected and good writers are brought in.Doctor Who is a Great British invention and is worth watching. As I said I love it when there are Daleks involved.
British cinema is really brilliant at making dark, bleak kitchen sink dramas which are brutal to watch. Fish Tank follows in this traditional.Mia (Katie Jarvis) is a 15-year-old girl who lives on an sink estate in Essex. She has been expelled from school, gets into fights and spends most of her time drinking. Her mother (Kierston Wareing) is a struggling single mum and her younger sister Tyler (Rebecca Griffiths) who is a foul-mouthed little girl. Her only outlet is dancing in an abandoned to hip-hop music. But her is made even more complex when her mum starts seeing Connor (Michael Fassbender), a seemingly nice man who supports Mia dream but there is more then meets the eye with their relationship.Andrea Arnold shows that she has a nack for making this type of film. Her film Red Road was a very interesting film set in Glasgow about a CCTV operator finding a man who wronged her in the past. Arnold has great skill using hand-held cameras to give the film an intense documentary style and she uses some bleak imagery, from the abandoned the flat, the landscape of tower blocks, the industrial estates, wild grasslands and the busy roads. The estate itself is uninviting with many dark corners and metal netting over balconies. The film is also bold because Mia is in every scene and set piece and this required a top performance. Jarvis delivered and it was made even better because Jarvis was an unprofessional actress before doing this film.Mia is a product of poor housing and a unloving family. She is a character who is tough and loner, who wonders the streets and drowns herself in drink. She has a caring side for a horse but she is a character that longs to be loved, but she can be very harsh, bitter and vengeful. She is shown to have a conflicted relationship with Connor ranging from fancying him to dislike and she can be a hard character to like (particularly in the third act). Fassbender is a very talented actor and shows he talented by playing a complex, real character. On the surface he is nice, he acts as a good father-figure and he is really good with children. He seems to support Mia's dream and she does like him, but he does have a darker side and sets out to show a really mixed picture. Wareing was good in the film and Griffiths was weirdly creepy because she swears, aggressive and smokes: but that's because I find children swearing and smoking really wrong.
The Girl on Fire is back, the Mockingjay and the symbol of hope against a repressive regime returns in The Hunger Games: Catching Fire, a film that fans of the novel will be extremely pleased with.After winning the Games, Katniss Everdeen (Jennifer Lawrence) has been suffering nightmares and has been unable to spend time with Peeta (Josh Hutcherson), after it was revealed that her love for him was fake. President Snow (Donald Sutherland) demands Katniss that she needs to keep the presence going, in order to stop an uprising happening in many Districts of Panam. Snow threatens to kill her family, if she does not comply. With many of the Districts rioting, seeing Katniss as a symbol and the Capital citizen looking her as a cultural icon, the new Gamesmaster, Plutarch Heavensbee (Philip Seymour Hoffman) advises Snow to bring in more oppressive measures and for the 75th Hunger Games, the Third Quarter Quell, by using the existing pool of winners to fight to death, forcing Katniss and Peeta back into the arena.The Hunger Games: Catching Fire is a very loyal adaptation of the novel, only omitting a few elements and adding or expanding scenes. Director Francis Lawrence and writers, Simon Beaufoy and Michael Arndt have taken over the series and the trio keep what worked from the first adaptation, while dropping things like the shaky cam, in order to improve on the quality of this second entry.Francis Lawrence and the writers greatly realise the expanded world of Panam and showing the political situation in the mostly engaging way possible. We get the wide range of political symbolism of the world, the use of the three finger hand symbol, the mockingjay bird and getting quick graces of the rebellion in the screens of a control room. We get to see what events are like on the ground, with the tour of Districts in a montage and the repression used in District 12 with the enforcement of corporal punishment. On the other side of the coin, the citizens in the Capital copy Katniss' style, including Snow's granddaughter, which leads Katniss into becoming a Che Guevara-like figure, where the citizens do not realise what she stands for.The sequel also retains the themes about politics, particularly the media as both Snow and Katniss' team battle each other in the media world, making power plays, in order to get one over the other. Commentaries about the other indulgent society in The Capital is also in play, compared to the poverty that the other Districts live in. Katniss herself has to go through some changes, as she wants to protect her family, but is forced to become this symbol and every action The Capital takes drives her closer to the role.The Hunger Games: Catching Games has a bigger budget then the previous entry and it shows on the screen, as Francis Lawrence is allowed to craft a grander and more expansive world, than director Gary Ross had previously done. Lawrence gets to visit more of Panam and has big wide shots during the opening parade and seeing more of the skyline of The Capital. There is more CGI and Francis Lawrence greatly realizes the topical arena for the games.Lawrence preserves the same colour schemes that Ross used for The Hunger Games, District 12 and the other district being gray, grim and industrial, compared to The Capital being bright and colourful. Lawrence also maintains the same level of violence and brutality of the first movie and the book, such as the flogging scene and does push the 12A rating in the UK during the Quarter Quell (the UK version is uncut).New actors have joined the existing cast of The Hunger Games and the results are mixed. Hoffman is the competent professional that he usually is and Jeffrey Wright is excellent as the intelligent, inventive Beetee, adding plenty of gravitas. Sam Claflin, who won the convened Finnick Odair, continues to be his bland self, ever since he was in Pirates of the Caribbean: On Stranger Tides. Patrick St. Esprit does deserves a special mention, for his gusto and overacting as Commander Thread, the new strict head peacekeeper in District 12.The Hunger Games: Catching Fire is an excellent sequel that improves on the original and should easily pleases fans of the books and the first movie. It is a blockbuster with substance and despite the long running time does not drag at all.Please visit www.entertainmentfuse.com
Ahh, Korean Cinema, some of the best in the world. Only in Asia do their filmmaker come up with interesting, unusual and edgy stories. Sympathy for Mr. Vengeance is no exception, being made by South Korea's best director, Park Chan-wook.Set in Seoul, Ryu (Ha-kyun Shin), a deaf and dumb man is looking after his sister who needs a kidney transplant. He dropped out of art-house to work in a factory and ends up taking desperate measures. He goes to a illegal group of organ traffickers, giving them all his money and a kidney. But they do not give Ryu's sister a kidney and when one becomes available on the official transplant list he cannot pay. Ryu's girlfriend, Yeong-mi (Du-na Bae), a left-wing activist, convinces him to kidnap his ex-boss' daughter for 26 Million Wok (roughly $21,000/£14,000). The kidnapping seem to go off okay, they got the girl and kept her happy. But one a fateful trip to the countryside the child drowns. As you can imagine, her father was angry sets out to gain revenge.The whole point of the Vengeance's trilogy is well, revenge. In this dark little tale Ryu does what he did in the film for love of sister. He is not an evil character but at the same time he is able to get his own back again the man who fired him. Dong-jin (Kang-ho Song), the father, obvious desire for revenge is for the death of his daughter and for the life he lost. The film is told in two parts, the first about the plot to kidnap the girl and the result, the second, about Dong-jin's investigation, whilst Ryu's and Yeong-mi's budding relationship, and revenge against the organ traffickers.The film is deliciously violence, with come brutal torture scenes. The director doesn't hold back, unlike what a Hollywood film would. It is not light viewing. The subject matter is something that Hollywood wouldn't touch.Sympathy for Mr. Vengeance is good, but sadly, not as good as Oldboy was. It is a difficult watch to anyone who is overly sensitive.
Parody films have got such a bad reputation because of the horrible work of the Wayans Family and Jason Friedberg and Aaron Seltzer partnership, that it is refreshing to see a film at least make an effort, with an original films, and not coping the best bits from other films and play them for comedy, poorly.Hancock tells the story John Hancock (Will Smith), the last of his kind and has powers similar to Superman. He has super-strength, the ability to fly and indestructible. He is also a raging alcoholic, causes millions of dollars of damage and hated by the people of Los Andreas. He is pretty much a tramp and hates what he does. However, he saves the life of Ray Embrey (Jason Bateman), an PR executive, and offers his services to improve Hancock's reputation. He get him to service time in prison and show how important he is to the city and more importantly, make him care about saving people. But Ray's wife Mary (Charlize Theron) does not truth or even like Hancock, and want the family to move away from him as quickly as possible.I could easily picture the pitch meeting, 'Superman as an alcoholic': that is the concept. It works for the most part, with some superhero scenes played for laughs, like Hancock flying drunk and clashing into road signs on the freeway and the world acknowledges that he causes a lot of destruction compared to Superman, Spiderman, Batman, etc... There is a lot of physical comedy, but the best bit of comedy is playing on superhero conventions, like when Hancock saves Ray, and he ends up arguing with citizens. Will Smith is a good comedic performer, but he play his role pretty seriously as well. This was clearly his vehicle. He was offered the chance to play Superman, but he refused because he didn't want to break racial lines, he made the right decision. I think an original superhero was the best option for Will Smith, giving him and all that was involved in the film a lot more freedom. The other actors in the film were perfectly find, Charlize Theron was good, and I personally thought she would have been a great choice to play Emma Frost in X-Men.Peter Berg direction is still a little unsure: this is his first blockbuster film. Some moments didn't quite work, and the CGI could have been better. But the action is solid, and has a good future in-front of him. He has Michael Mann as a backer and producer so he must have something. As well as playing against superhero conventions, Berg also does pay some homage to superhero films, like Superman, i.e. the music, and X-Men, the costume.Some critics complain about the film had a good idea and then the producers forced more action scenes to the film. But this is an action comedy, and the best action comedies have good action scenes, like Hot Fuzz. My criticisms are that film is a little too short, that there is a lack of a major villains and that they should have been more comedy, especially verbal gags. The film should have also stuck to it's convictions, and gone for an R/15 rating, instead of watering it down for a PG-13.A perfectly worthy film, a decent blockbuster.
Full Metal Jacket has been an underrated film at times, but its good that its in the top 250 movies. Full Metal Jacket is an Anti-War, as well as an Anti-Vietnam film and shows Kubrick talent and politics.Full Metal Jacket is a movie in two halves, first on boot-camp and the dehumanising of recruits and the second in Vietnam, looking at Private/Sergeant Joker's (Michael Modine) career as a military journalist, the Tet Offensive and the Battle of Hue. The first half looks at how recruits were trained, and how Private Pyle (Vincent D'Onofrio) was bullied by his Drill Sergeant (R. Lee Ermey) and other recruit to point he is driven to looking his mind, murders and before committing suicide. The second half shows that the US army was fairly hopeless during the war, destroying Vietnamese towns and killing and exploiting or killing the locals. A few women were prostituting themselves to American soldiers. At the end of the film it is shown that a 12-year-old girl was a sniper and ends up getting killed. Some people have argued that Full Metal Jacket was a neutral film: however it is obvious that its an Anti-War film.The first half of the film is the best, but the second half is still very good compared to other films. The opening scene was a classic bit of cinema and R. Lee Ermey does steal the show with his performance. A little be of trivia is that Ermey was hired to be an adviser to the person who would play the Drill Sergeant. However Kubrick saw a video of him shouting 15 minutes worth of insults without stopping or repeating himself, so Kubrick casted him in the role. The Drill Sergeant is shown to be a religious and sadist, but a stereotype. During this part of the film shows how the human soul is destroyed by the training and how recruits become heartless beings. The second half shows how the war was fought and that soldiers were at times heartless. Full Metal Jacket takes a different approach to other Vietnam films by showing a urban battle, and how brutal an affair it was.The film has some great dark comedy in it, a trait of Kubrick, shown in Dr. Strangelove, Lolita and A Clockwork Orange. The Drill Sergeant was the best at it and comes up with some classic film quotes. Joker was also a good comedic character and other characters do come up with witty comments. Kubrick's anti-war politics is show and Full Metal Jacket shows how destructive the Vietnam war was on the country. Kubrick's other anti-war films were Paths of Glory and Dr. Strangelove.The film is excellent, the only two problems what the second half being a little weaker and that it was filmed in England, and therefore doesn't have quite the same feel to other Vietnam films.Full Metal Jacket is Kubrick classic and a must see for film lovers.
In 1998 Leonardo DiCaprio was career was at an early peak after starring in Romeo + Juliet and Titanic and Randall Wallace was able to have his directional debut after the unjust praise he received for Braveheart. Both ended being involved in a mediocre swashbuckling auctioneer which is a sequel to the Four Musketeers.Set in the early stage of King Louis XIV (DiCaprio) reign, Louis is a brutal king who is engaged in a war with the Dutch, allowing the civilians of Paris to starve and riot whilst his lives in luxury and at has affairs with mistresses. The Four Musketeers have gone their separate ways, Aramis (Jeremy Irons) is a Jesuit priest, Porthos (Gérard Depardieu) is a fat old man who is depressed and visits brothels, Athos (John Malkovich) has raised a son, Raoul (Peter Sarsgaard) who want to be a musketeers and D'Artagnan (Gabriel Byrne) is the captain of the musketeers for the king. But when Aramis is asked to kill the head Jesuit order and Athos' son dies in a suicidal battle because of the king's eye for his partner, three of the musketeers plot to overthrow Louis. They plan is to free Louis' identity twin brother, Philippe was held prison with an iron mask over his head, and replace him to be a good king.There are some good things about The Man in the Iron Mask: there are some nice costumes, nice scenery involving the palace of Versailles with a fitting score and Irons was pretty good in the film. But there are a lot of problems with this film. Most of the acting is wooden, and that despite the casting of DiCaprio and Malkovich who were on autopilot. Malkovich did have one decent moment of making an angry speech but that's it. But DiCaprio's career went into a mini-dip after this and the Beach: luckily he has recovered and works with great directors like Scorsese, Spielberg and Nolan. It was also a weird mix of accents, with characters speaking in either an English, American or French: Wallace should have gotten all his actors to speak in one accent and stick to it. The action in film is pretty standard: there is nothing bad about it but there is nothing new or refreshing about it either; just a few sword fights and flintlock rifles being shot. I am also personally very critical of Wallace as a writer, coming up with the cinematic travesties of Braveheart and Pearl Harbor. The Man in the Iron Mask follows has the same problems, Wallace has a continuing need to introduce poor and crass comedy, with Depardieu playing a drunken slop who gets drunk, farts, lusts over women and walks around naked when he tried to hang himself. For a very French story the one major French actor has the worst role. Most of the jokes fall flat and the dialogue is weak throughout the film. The character is one dimensional, but Wallace does not know how to make them any other way. You could not believe in them and the acting did not help. There was no attempt to characterise Louis and like Edward I in Braveheart there is no political reason for why he commits an act, like the war. It was a hollow experience. There is an attempt of a surrogate father-son relationship between Athos and Philippe but that also felt flat throughout and that well developed.Many ideas are underdeveloped, like the Jesuit campaign against Louis' wars, the grinding poverty the ordinary people had to suffer or show more of the war, whether France was winning, losing or in the middle of a stalemate. A theme that could have been explored was if the musketeers were using Philippe for their own ends to gain power for themselves. Or rivalries in the court whilst some counsellors supporting Louis and other against him.Overall the best swashbuckling film of 1998 was the Mask of Zorro and Wallace best film is We Were Soldiers: watch those two film instead.
From the director of Zombieland and 30 Minutes or Less, Ruben Fleischer makes his first foray into serious filmmaking with his police and gangster movie Gangster Squad, delivering a highly violent and stylist flick that is tonally mixed.In 1949 the criminal underworld of Los Angeles has been taken over by an east coast gangster Mickey Cohen (Sean Penn), a man who made his way to the top by using violence and cruelty and maintains control by bribing the police, judges and politicians. But one police officer is not scared of Cohen, homicide detective, Sgt. John O'Mara (Josh Brolin), an officer who single handily brings down Cohen's brothel operation. O'Mara is asked by LAPD Police Chief Bill Parker (Nick Nolte) to recruit of squad of police offices to run a clandestine operation and go to war with Cohen.Gangster Squad is very similar to 1987's The Untouchables. Both movies are loosely based on true stories and tells of a moral law enforcer who has to run a small team of officers to bring down a notorious gangster. But there are differences as well: Brolin character is much more willing to break the rules to do what he thinks is right and his character becomes more morally ambiguous than Kevin Costner's Eliot Ness and the cops in Gangster Squad are the harden rouges of the LAPD, not the incorruptible officers of The Untouchables.Another theme is the friendship between O'Mara and Sgt. Jerry Wooters (Ryan Gosling); two cops with very differing personalities and viewpoints and go on two separate journeys. O'Mara is the moral cop who is willing to defy orders for what he thinks is right and slowly becomes colder and hardened when attempting to bring down O'Mara. While Wooters starts as a narcissistic character that ends up having something to live for, stating the squad needed more of a strategy and the two have a role reversal.There is a jarring style and tone to throughout the movie. Gangster Squad starts off very dark with a man being split in two and a woman nearly being raped which are later contrasted with comedy (which was well done) and flashy visuals. Flesicher seemed confused on whether he wanted make a grim police vs. gangster movie or a fun action romp. In the end he stayed in his comfort zone and used a lot of his visual tricks throughout the movie. Gangster Squad was very much like a Guy Ritchie gangster movie in its tone and look.The strongest aspect of Gangster Squad is the action sequences. There are plenty of violent shoot outs, an excellent car chase, fist fights and stylised montages. They are well crafted, well edited set pieces and Fleischer is very happy employing similar tricks that Zack Snyder employs, i.e. slo-mo and camera pans.One of the main reasons why people are interested in Gangster Squad is new writer Will Beall has been hired to write the Justice League movie. Sadly his story is safe and Gangster Squad is a new version of The Untouchables. The run up to the third act follows typical cop movie clichés we have all seen before and does nothing new. Some of the character very stock, Emma Stone had a thankless role as Cohen's girlfriend who starts a relationship with Wooters, while Anthony Mackie and Michael Peña were given one note characters with little for the actors to work with.Beall does attempt themes about Post War America, the rise of affluences and the question of why fight wars if there is nothing good to come back to. But when mixed with Flesicher's hyper-realistic direction, those ideas were not the greatest fit to go with that style.If you go into Gangster Squad expecting a Martin Scorsese style crime thriller you will be left disappointed, but as an action film it is an entertaining romp. But Flesicher does need to vary his style if he wants to be more than a one movie wonder.Please visit www.entertainmentfuse.com
Aaron Sorkin is great, he is a brilliant writer of plays, films and TV shows, giving the world A Few Good Men, The American President, Studio 60 On the Sunset Strip, and his greatest creation The West Wing. He is a writer who can mix comedy and drama effectively, and tackles areas that truly interest him. Sorkin, with a good director, tackle a political subject of the 80s, about the unique story of Congressman Charlie Wilson, who ensured money, arms and training went to the Mujahideen to combat the Soviet Invasion.Charlie Wilson (Tom Hanks) was a Democratic congressman from Texas, who as he states has the easiest congressional district in Congress. He is able to make friends and deals. He also enjoys a party live style, spending time with a lot of women, drinks a lot and has been known to use cocaine occasionally. He office is staffed with young attractive women and he enjoys the fact he could pretty much do whatever he wants: until he gets investigated by Rudy Giuliani. Charlie ends up getting interested in the war in Afghanistan, seeing that the fighters are struggling against the Soviets. The covert budget for the war is only $5 million dollars, and they is no CIA strategy. One officer even wants to just use Afghans to bleed the Soviets as pay back for Vietnam. Charlie quickly raises money and makes contacts with the Pakistani government. Charlie ends up forming an unholy alliance with CIA operative Gust Avrakotos (Philip Seymour Hoffman), a crass European specialist who suffers anger issues, and Joanne Herring (Julie Roberts), a very wealthy right wing woman who campaigns and raises money for the fight against Communism. Charlie and Gust were able to raise money, and form a strategy involving Israel, Egypt, Saudi Arabia and Pakistan to get weapons into Afghanistan, and Charlie uses all his political knowledge to ensure Congress and the American government backs him. I also like to mention that it Afghanistan wasn't the only reason why the Soviet Union fell. There is Mikhail Gorbachev domestic reforms, Glasnoth and Perestroika (or as I like to call Democray and Captailism), the Soviet Union pulling out of Eastern Europe. And finally Ronald Regean's policy of plowing money into pointless defence projects like Star Wars and leading admirals buying golden toilet seats. The Soveits weren't able to keep up, and Regean was able to mess up two countries, America and Russia.As a West Wing fan, I was always going to be interested in the film, and Charlie Wilson's War does pay a little like that. This is true involving Charlie's political dealings. There are elements like conversations involving Afghanistan, it's effects and why Charlie got interested in politics. It can be easily read as a commentary about Afghanstan, then and now. Aaron Sorkin plans the film mostly as a drama, but there are excellent witty moments. Philip Seymour Hoffman has the best moments, and he is a great performance; I could watch him read the phonebook for an hour and an half and be entertained. Tom Hanks is also good as Charlie Wilson who turns from playboy to professional politician. The director Mike Nichols, is a seasoned director, showing he can do both comedy (The Graduate), drama (Closer), an interest in politics (Primacy Colors) and get best from his actors. He handles the material well, allowing jokes to shine, but lets to the become more serious. He builds the tone, and this is a film aimed at adults. If you are going to watch this film you will need to know about a little about the history, and how it affects the world today. I am personally interested in the subject. A little footnote though, the Mujahideen never liked the Americans in the first place, only using them for weapons. America was always the great Satan, but they toned that element down during the war.This is a more right wing screenplay by Sorkin. He tries to be even handed towards the left and the right in the America, and shows a very unflattering view of the Soviet cinema. I recommend watching 9th Company to balance things out. But there is the theme that America are good at winning wars, but bad at winning the peace.A good enjoyable little film.
This is the best Batman film so far. I enjoy for the fact that it was psychological and takes the most realistic approach possible. This was because the director Chris Nolan is known for making psychological thrillers, and he also only used CGI when needed, he made the film using stunts and keeping the action down to earth.The film focuses on Bruce Wayne becoming Batman and looks at the psychology of the man. It showed his personal angst and fears and how he used it to fight crime. The starts with a flashback of Bruce and his friend Rachel Dawes as children before seeing Bruce in a Chinese prison, aiming to understand the mind of criminals. Fear was a major theme. Bruce Wayne as Batman wanted to cause fear within criminals in Gotham, whilst the Scarecrow used fear as a weapon. Bruce's relationships are also looked at. In the film he is emotionally stunted because of the murder of his parents. It shows that he has few friends, Alfred, he was a father figure to him, Lucius Fox, who helps Bruce become Batman, Sgt. Gordon who is one of the few good cops in Gotham and Rachel, Bruce's love interest.As well as showing Bruce/Batman as a more realistic human, Nolan takes great care to show how it was possible for someone to become Batman. The equipment used in the film is down to earth and not out the realms of possibility and the Batmobile looks like a real vehicle. I hated the 1960s programme of Batman, I really disliked the camp in it and I hated the silliness. I didn't like Batman Forever or Batman and Robin (that one was laughably bad). The Tim Burton version was better, but I still felt like a cartoon. However Batman Returns is a good film in it's own right. I liked that fact that Gotham looked like a city, namely because it was filmed in Chicago, but I felt it was just right for the film.The film also had an excellent case, and I personally enjoyed the British/Irish favour to it. Christian Bale was brilliant as Batman, Michael Caine was good as Alfred. Gary Oldman, an actor I've always liked played Gordon who grows as a character in the film. Tom Wilkinson, Liam Neeson and Cillian Murphy were good as the villains. Morgan Freeman, one of the felt Americans to have a major part was also had a fine performance as Fox. The only person I had a problem with was Katie Holmes, but it was only because I thought she was too young to be playing a Deputy DA, not because she was a bad actress. I think Maggie Gyllenhaal should be more suited for the role in the next film.The film also has the feeling of it being like Batman: Year One by Frank Miller. It is not a carbon copy of the Graphic Novel, but it is very similar and the ending is lifted from the Graphic Novel. Year One also set out to show Batman's origins and show how it could have been possible. Batman Begins in my opinion was also influenced by the first two X-Men films which tried to take the most realistic approach possible. They is also a trend in Hollywood for taken the realistic approach, such as Casino Royale, Lord of the Rings (as in the battle scenes) and the Bourne Trilogy.I can't wait for The Dark Knight to come out in the cinema.
World War Z had one of the most notorious and difficult production histories for a blockbuster, being disloyal to the source material having rewrites for its final act and 40 days of reshoots. It had disaster written all over it. But it turned out to be a well-made blockbuster and has more opportunity for a wider scope then most zombie films.Gerry Lane (Brad Pitt) is a former investigator for the UN who now lives a happy family live in Philadelphia. But in the background are reports of strange events around the world when suddenly America is swamped with zombies and Gerry has to get his family to safety. Gerry and his family get to be on a US Navy ship, but to grantee that they are allowed to stay on the ship Gerry is ordered to investigate the source of the outbreak, leading him on a mission from South Korea, to Israel, to Wales.One of the controversial aspects of World War Z was the fact that it given a PG-13 rating: but whilst the film lacks with blood and gore it is a film that does something no other zombie film could do, show the true scale of the zombie apocalypse. We see the international dimension of what happens and how different countries react and are affected. The director Marc Forster was strong at showing the breakdown of society in different forms, from the initial panic to a quieter aftermath.The opening of the film was well done up until the initial zombie attacks, where Forster relied too much on hand-held cameras and quick cut editing. Of course it was meant to show the panic and confusion of the situation of zombies emerging, but it was more annoying than anything else. Fortunately the sequence in Jerusalem (in reality Valletta, Malta) where the Zombies breach the wall and the Israeli army has to fight them back or being chased in the narrow alleys. You can even look pass the ropey CGI effects that were used.Forster does have a fast paced film for the most part with quieter moments allowed to breath with the final third being a bit slower. There is a find combination of drama and action, but there is a weird undercurrent of dark humour, from a man shooting himself in the head by accident and the actions of some zombies in the World Health Organisation Base. Added to that there seems to be a strange commentary about the Israel-Palestine conflict where the crisis unites the Israelis and Palestinians but their unity ends up leading to their destruction. There is also an even dodgier element where the head of Mossad revealed that the Israelis knew about the zombie outbreak and took actions to safeguard themselves. It could easily be argued that no one would have believed the Israelis, but another way to look at is it could be a commentary on conspiracy theories that Mossad knew about 9/11 and did not tell anyone about it. Or maybe I am reading too much into it.World War Z is very similar to Outbreak and Contagion with Gerry trying to find the source of the virus, with elements of I Am Legend. There are also influences of classic zombie films, like Dawn of the Dead and 28 Days Later, especially in the third act. Another element World War Z borrows from is Steven Spielberg's War of the Worlds, using the idea of the panicking children and more importantly the use of Chinese whispers about how the virus is affecting the world.World War Z is an entertaining film, that is better then it had any right to be. Whilst hardcore horror fans, zombie fans and fans of the novel, it is best treat the film as it is, a global set blockbuster.7.5/10
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix is one of the best Harry Potter films, a very close second to The Prisoner of Azkaban. Here is an exciting fantasy film, with the darker elements of Harry Potter being brought to the screen, and has additional character depth.Lord Voldemort (Ralph Fiennes) had raised once again and he starts recruiting his forces. He is able to send Dementors to attack Harry (Daniel Radcliffe) and his cousin Dudley (Harry Melling), where Harry is forced to use the Patronus Charm. The Ministry of Magic expel Harry from Hogwarts and an enquiry is launched. Harry discovers that the Minster for Magic Cornelius Fudge (Robert Hardy) denies that Voldemort has risen, fearing the backlash and started a media campaign against Harry and Dumbledore (Michael Gambon). After Harry is saved by Dumbledore, Fudge sends his loyal employee Dolores Umbridge (Imelda Staunton) to serve as Hogwarts' new Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher. The aim is to undermine Dumbledore, and spread Ministry Propaganda. She is a horrible woman, sickly sweet on the outside, but has no problem torturing students and harbours 'racist' thoughts about non-humans, like centaurs. The ministry aims to avoid teaching practical magic, so Harry, Hermione (Emma Watson) and Ron (Rupert Grint) form their own class to teach students, calling it Dumbledore's Army. Harry shows that he is a good teacher. The classes also gives Harry a chance to get close to the lovely Cho Chang (Katie Leung); but both still suffer from guilt of the death of Cedric Diggory. Harry also suffers nightmares and imagines involving Voldemort. He is aware Voldemort wants something from the Ministry and wants to stop him. Snape (Alan Rickman) tries to teach Harry have to block the imagines.After Mike Newell left the director's chair, a number of directors were approached, Jean-Pierre Jeunet, Michael Vaughen and Mira Nair. In the end David Yates was picked to direct, a man who proved himself on British television, and has a nack for the darker elements of life. He ends up being a good fit for the series, showing a good hand with the special effects, brought in his own vision style (e.g. the newspapers), kept the film well paced, had an exciting eye for wizarding battles and shown to be good at casting. This was a very dark film, with deeper themes about politics, the media, and the psychology of grief and isolation. He is one of the best directors the Potter series had and he is the man who is going to finish the series. As well as the main cast returning showing their talent, there are new additions. Imelda Staunton was good as sickly Umbridge, and Evanna Lynch shows she is a promising young actress. Helena Botham Carter was perfect casting as the psychotic Bellatrix Lestrange; she is one of my favourite actresses. Gary Oldman is given a lot to do and shows why he is one of the best actors around. Radcliffe brings out the fact Harry becomes an angry and isolated teenager, wanting to fight but unable to do much about it. Ralph Fiennes does not have much screen time, but still shows what a great villain he is. He plays Voldemort also like the Emperor from Star Wars: Return of the Jedi.This is the only Potter film that was not written by screenwriter Steve Kloves. Michael Goldenberg is given the tough task of adapting the longest Harry Potter books, and one of the most entertaining into a film. He does it and somehow with David Yates makes the shortest Potter film. He is forced to cut subplots like the Quidditch matches and the scene at St. Mungo's Hospital, but the key plot reminds and he keeps the dark tone of the film. Out of all the Potter films this is the most serious (and I like that). I do however criticise the changes to the Harry and Cho relationship, I would have liked to have seen more of that.Very enjoyable fantasy.
Before Steve McQueen came along, artists turned directors trended to be awful at the job like Tracy Emin (but she has always been an awful artist). But since Steve McQueen there is hope that artists can be good storytellers, with Sam Taylor-Wood also gaining critical success with Nowhere Boy. Here Steve McQueen shows his skill with a brutal tale about the Maze Prison and the political protests IRA prisoners undertook.In the early 1980s terrorist prisoners in Northern Ireland had their rights as political prisoners removed and IRA prisoners protest by refusing to wear prison uniforms, thereby ending up being nude, and smearing their own feces. Prison guards have to use violence even to clean prisoners and clean their cells. One prisoner, Bobby Sands (Michael Fassbender) who suffers from the violence goes on a hunger strike to force the British government to give in to his demands. He would go on it by himself and was willing to die for his cause. To ensure that this wasn't a pointless sacrifice other IRA men would take his place other he died. As the strike continues Sands' health quickly deteriorates, with the British government standing strong against him.McQueen shows his skills very quickly, showing the brutal nature of live and showing the dirty live of the prison cells. It is grim but effective and you get the feel of what that live was like. He also shows his ambition, with lots of wide, continuous shots throughout, the main one being when Sands speaks with a priest (Liam Cunningham) about the morality of going on hunger strike. This almost felt like a stage play. McQueen also shows his artist flair with some of the shots, but most of the time keeps the film grounded to real life.Surprisingly McQueen shows a more balanced picture, showing a prison officer Lohan (Stuart Graham) is a human being, having to protect himself from IRA attacks, and having his wife worry for his life. But McQueen could have shown more, like terrorist attacks conducted by the IRA or British reprisals against them. I am personally a big critic of the IRA, seeing them as no more then terrorist targeting innocent civilians and now really just a criminal organisation. But despite my prejudices I was still gripped by the film, it was not Anglophobic or pro-Nationalist. An interesting parallel with today is with American treatment of Al-Qaida prisoners, where the Republicans and the Right in America want to strip them of their rights, torture them and lock them up indefinitely, whilst the Democrats want to treat them as what there really are, criminals and should have criminal trials. When it comes to fighting terrorism we need to show that we are better then sinking to their level. The film skips over the fact that Bobby Sands won an election to be an MP whilst on hunger strike.The acting is excellent, particularly from Michael Fassbender who is quickly emerging as a massive hot prospect. He is my second choice to replace Daniel Craig, just after Matthew MacFadyen. Liam Cunningham and Stuart Graham are also worthy of note.This is a very good film, and an excellent debut by Steve McQueen.
This film has a simply premise; a group of Jewish Soldiers are sent behind German lands during World War 2 to kill as many Nazis as possible. It may sound like the plot of an exploitation film or a war film from the 60s or 70s, but Tarantino makes it work as a homage to those films.Set during 1944, Lt. Aldo Raine (Brad Pitt) leads a team of Jewish Soldiers, the Basterds behind enemies lines. Within this group includes 'the Bear Jew' (Eli Roth) and psychopath Hugo Stiglitz (Til Schweiger). They mission, killing Nazis! They cause fear in the German ranks and are very successful at their mission. British Intelligence discover that the Nazis are planing to have a premier to the film Nation's Pride, and that the whole Nazi leadership is going to attend. British Intelligence sent Lt. Archie Hicox (Michael Fassbender) and plan with the Basterds and spy Bridget von Hammersmark (Diane Kruger) to bomb the event. But hot on their trial is Colonel Hans Landa (Christoph Waltz), the Jew Hunter. He is the head of the SS in France and an expert investigator. He is also a very sadistic man and great villain for any film.Also in the mix is Emanuelle (Mélanie Laurent), a French Jew whom family had been killed by Landa. She ends up owning a cinema in Paris and the object of war hero and Nation's Pride star Fredrick Zoller (Daniel Brühl). He is able to convince Joseph Goebbels to host the premier in her cinema. She plans to get her revenge on the Nazis.Tarantino has shown in the past that he can turn B-movie material into excellent films and Inglourious Basterds is a excellent film to add to his filmography. He shows once again that he just does do action, but focuses on character, has great dialogue and builds up tension in a scene. He is not afraid to use violence to great affect. Some critics say Tarantino is self-indulgent, but he is an great filmmaker. In this film he is able to mix dark seriousness and comedy in one. Within this film Tarantino sticks to a linger narrative, unless most of his previous efforts. There are only a few flash backs in this film. They are great characters, especially Aldo Raine and Hans Landa, both perfectly played by their actors. Brad Pitt and Christoph Waltz are wonderful actors on top form in this film. You care about what happens to them. There are fine supporting characters like Hicox and Emmanuelle, but the biggest surprise is Eli Roth showing he is a decent actor, much better then his efforts as a director.There is a lovely cinematography within Inglourious Basterds, giving it the look of a 60s/70s war films. There are references to old war-films and Serigo Lorre's westerns (which Tarantino loves). But there are also homages to old Nazi propaganda films and there is a film-within-a-film.Tarantino also shows his love for music with this film, picking some excellent classical and western style songs for his score. However, this is one of his weaker films for music.The only one think that felt out of place, the narration by Samuel L. Jackson. But it is only for a few brief moments in this film.Finally, if you think this film is a history lesson then you really are a gullible fool.Inglourious Basterds is the best film in 2009, so far.
With it's mix of serious thriller plot, action-comedy and chemistry between it stars Lethal Weapon has an iconic film from the 80s and as one of archetype buddy-comedy films.Danny Glover and Mel Gibson play Roger Murtaugh (Danny Glover) and Martin Riggs (Mel Gibson), two LAPD detectives who could not be more different. Murtaugh is a Sergeant who just celebrated his 50th birthday and a happy family man, whilst Riggs had just lost his wife in a car accident and has become suicidal. Both are good officers but have very different styles: Murtaugh is much more safer in his approach to Riggs as a maverick. The two are forced together after Riggs was transferred and the two are assigned to investigate the death of a prostitute. But it quickly turns out that the death was linked to a drugs ring, run by the General (Mitchell Ryan) and his loyal henchman Mr. Joseph (Gary Busey).Lethal Weapon was a film that was able to mixed a serious plot that could have worked in a thriller or police film, with strong, light-hearted relationship between Glover and Gibson. The plot is played straight and has moments of darkness, whilst the characters themselves were a bit more comic because of Murtaugh's domestic situation and Riggs' crazy personality. But this film was played to be pretty serious for the most part.Shane Black writes a very good script and with Richard Donner's direction the action is constant. Donner knew when to slow the film down to allow the characters to shine. With a good score and traditional action techniques Donner makes an exciting and fun film: but the final fight scene was a bit disappointing. Donner kept a fast pacing so it was hard to get bored with a film like this. But Lethal Weapon is Donner's best film since The Omen (I am including Superman). Black avoided clichés that plagued the genre later on, like the dressing down by the police captain or the main two characters hating each other and then becoming friends. Murtaugh and Riggs do have a chalk and cheese relationship, but they never hate each other. They learn from each other and the relationship was natural in the film's internal reality. The plot itself was as mentioned, dark and in the right level between believable but just enough to keep a level of fantasy which was needed for this type of film.The key to the film was the interaction between Glover and Gibson who worked well together. Glover was more natural and deadpan in his approach whilst Gibson was more over the time. The acting is decent for the most part.An enjoyable film.
Based on a novel by J.G. Ballad Crash was a highly controversial film when it was first released when it was released in 1996 for its depiction of sex and violence. Whilst it is controversial for a few scenes, its actual problem is that it a bad film. Director David Cronenberg has made so excellent films in many different genres, but Crash is a very shallow, nihilistic film about nothing. There are many problems with the film, it has the visual look and style of a TV film, characters with not much characterisation, people speaking in quiet tones and James Spader was a bland lead. Despite the film's attempts to have a said about the changing nature of sexuality in the world of technology, a look at subcultures, how people enjoy danger and thrills and sexual fetishes. But on the whole Crash is a film that has nothing to say about its subject matter and this is Cronenberg at his worst.
Based on the true story of art experts going into the front-line to safeguard major art-pieces at the end of World War II in Europe before the Nazis could destroy them or the Soviet seize them serves as George Clooney's latest directional . This war film has a deliberately old-fashioned feel, being more light hearted and comic approach, being an adventure for a group of unlikely of men trying to preserve many masterpieces of Western Culture. But the jokes for the most part fall flat or offer minor chuckles and smiles. Plus Clooney's direction and writing does go for very sentimental and sappy and he seems to not be able to take a tone, whether to be a romp or be more dramatic as it heavily hints towards the Holocaust. The sloppy writing is as Clooney tries to juggle the tones, skip past some dark themes like a child sniper (which was played for laughs) and has major pacing issues as at some parts the film skips through some parts of the film, such as the recruitment and training of the characters yet slow down at other times. Matt Damon and Cate Blanchett were given particularly thankless roles as they work together in Paris, disappearing as the rest of the cast fight on the front line.Despite Clooney's noble intentions and excellent cast The Monuments Men falters with his misjudged tone and Clooney has made better films as a director.
The 39 Steps is an early example of the types of films Alfred Hitchcook brought to Hollywood later in his career. It is an excellent example of storytelling and British film-making and the old chicle 'they don't make them like that any more' is very applicable here.The 39 Steps follows the normal Hitchcookian route of an ordinary man thrown into extra-ordinary circumstances. It old fashion spy story, based on stories that were written before and after the First World War. The film also reminds me a little be of North by Northwest, with a similar plot, and also another good film.The focus of the film is on Richard Hanney, a visitor from Canada in London. In a Music Hall he watches from a man called Mr. Memory, and as his name suggests he can remember any fact and answer any question. However during the performance a fight breaks out and shots are heard. Outside the Music Hall Hanney meets 'Annabella Smith' and they go back to his flat. It is they Annabella tells Hanney that she shot the gun so she could run away from men who were chasing her. She tells that she discovered a spying plot in Britain they foreign spys were trying to get a information of a secret military project out of the country. Hanney is spectikel, but in the night Annabella is murdered and as she dies tell Hanney that he needs to go to Scotland to stop the plot. But as well as trying to uncover the plot and the mystery of the 39 steps he discoveries that he is the prime suspect of the murder of a Annabella and is on the run from the police and the spys.If you are a Hitchcook then this film is a must see for you. If you are a fan or thrillers or British cinema, again this film is a must see. It is an intelligence film and keeps your mind activities and keeps you compelled to keep you eyes on the screen.
When the first good comment for a film is great make-up, then you know your in trouble. The Planet of the Apes remake is no where need as good as the original film. It was filmed by Tim Burton, but he really was just a gun-for-hire, a film that was not made with his usual Gothic style.Planet of the Apes is set in 2029, and focuses on Leo (Mark Walberg), a US air force pilot based on a space station. On the station the air force use apes to help do tasks and pilot small pods. A wormhole opens and one of the apes is sent to investigate. When it seems that the chimpanzee was in trouble Leo follows the apes through the wormhole. After going through it Leo crash-lands in a strange jungle and encounters humanized-apes. He is captured with other humans and sold to slavery. Leo is brought by a human-sympathiser, Ari (Helena Botham Carter), and with other humans escape from the city. This leads to them getting chased by the ape army, led by General Thade (Tim Roth).As I say, the make-up by Rick Baker was very good and truly Oscar-worthy. The special-effects were good, and there was some good action scenes. However the film was lackluster and really a by-the-numbers affair. There was a poor script with this film, and the story telling was nothing like the original film. There was nothing deep about this film and just shows apes as evil and humans as good. In the original film humans were neutral and all except Charlton Heston were mute whilst the apes were more of a mixed-bag. The original Planet of the Apes was seen at time as a satire, for example the backwards issue of not teaching the theory of evolution. In this film the idea of religion was decent, but could have been more. The remake was really just a chase movie. The acting for the apes was good and well casted. Helena Botham Carter is always good and Tim Roth loved playing the evil general. Michael Clarke Duncan was also decent in it. However, the human actors were not so well-developed and this film was not Walberg's finest hour. I also didn't like Paul Giamatti as an Oranga-tan slave trader, he was only in the film to add comic relief. The other major problem with this film was the ending. The original had a great ending which everyone should know. This film's ending was sub-par. I did not like how the battle ended and the aftermath of the battle (similar to my opinions to X-Men 3). Everyone has also criticised the plot-twist at the end.I admit, when I was younger I did enjoy the film from an action-adventure viewpoint; but even then I did not like the plot twist. However, this film does have it fans like Mark Kermode and Richard Roeper.One to miss in my opinion.
Forget the Spice Girls or Lady Gaga: Made in Dagenham is a real example of girl power. The director of Calendar Girls, Nigel Cole, returns with a film that perfectly mixes comedy, drama, tragedy and politics in an entertaining film that is going to be the best British film of the year.The wonderful Sally Hawkins leads an all star cast of likes of Bob Hoskins, Miranda Richardson, Rosamund Pike, Jamie Winstone (daughter of Ray) and Richard Schiff. Hawkins plays Rita O'Grady, the reluctant leader of a group of striking woman at Ford's Dagenham plant, fighting for their status and the right for all women to for equal pay. Under her mentor Albert (Hopkins) she has to lead her women against the management of Ford, the elite of the unions, sexism of men in many forms who she forces out of work and effects on her family as she grabs the attention of Secretary of Employment Barbara Castle (Richardson) to being about Equal Pay legislation.Hawkins' performance was over standing throughout, mixing great comedy and dialogue, with dramatic quality, giving us an organic, believable and likable characters. We see her grow from a reluctant leader and a good mother to a strong, charismatic, witty character. Hawkins shows why she is becoming one of the most respective British actresses around and that she will possibly being flying the flag for an Oscar nod. Hoskins too offers a fine performance of comedy and seriousness. Many of the characters are well developed, from Sandra (Winstone) who wants to be a model, the intelligence upper-class wife of a manager, Lisa (Pike), who wants to help the woman's strike, to a fine comic performance by Richardson as the intelligence, fierce government minister who has to be battle her dimwitted aides.Billy Ivory writes a excellent screenplay, making the audience laugh and sad (or at least feel tragedy). The comic dialogue is grounded and placed in a realistic situation, like the raunty woman on the factory floor to many conversations throughout the film. With Cole's direction, the film was able to balance the comedy with the serious drama and makes the issues its raising engaging. There are fine examples of showing a complex picture, like the people who are meant to support the women strikers are themselves sexists who look out for their male members. There is a really tragic performance from Roger Lloyd-Pack (who is known as a comic actor) who adds some harsh reality to the film. Cole's direction is a colourful and positive for most of the time. David Arnold gives the film an upbeat 60s soundtrack and whilst Cole focuses on a more romantic view of the period with hot pants, women's liberation and partying.Audiences will leave with a smile on their faces.
Some people claim that the first Blade film is responsible for the re-birth of the superhero genre (I personally think Bryan Singer X-Men really started it). But Blade I and II show a more adult, very violence action series can be critically and commercial successful. But Blade Trinity was a sad disappointed.The Vampire race are on their suffering with Blade's one man campaign against them. The Vampires take one despite message, they find the first vampire, the perfect vampire, Dracula, aka Drake (Dominic Purcell). As well as getting their savour, the Vampires also launch a PR campaign, making Blade (Wesley Snipes) kill a human, and use familiars in the FBI to capture him. But has a new set of allies, the Nightwalkers, including Abigail Whistler (Jessica Biel) and Hannibal King (Ryan Reynolds). They go on the hunt, to stop Drake and the vampires from taking over the world.The failure lays on David S. Goyer. He is a very talented writer, writing Blade and Blade II, and Batman Begins and The Dark Knight, but with Blade Trinity he was weighted down by his own ambition. With Blade and Blade II Goyer had to raise the streaks each time. This time he had to create the perfect vampire. The story line was weaker then the previous films. Goyer also took over in the director's chair. His inexperience shows, with too many stylist tricks, slows-motion, wooden performances and weak pacing. He sadly doesn't have the skill of Guillermo del Toro who directed Blade II. They were some silly set pieces, like in the beginning, with Blade driving a muscle car to stop vampires. The casting of the film was poor. Dominic Purcell had a good build, but that was all that was going for him. He lacked any menage that previous villains had. Jessica Biel looked good, she needs to work on her acting. The only two that were half-way good were Ryan Reynolds and Parker Posey but leads to another problem: there was too much comedy in the film. The previous films were treated the material pretty seriously, with only a few moments of comedy: Blade Trinity doesn't have the serious feel to it.There are still some fine action sequences so the film isn't a dead-lost, but it could have been a lot better.
When you see a trailer for a rom-com these days you can often predict the plot and the lame jokes of the whole film. But 500 Days of Summer is different and shows what a real relationship is like, not some sort of idealised version.Tom (Joseph Gordon-Levitt) is a young man who works at a greetings card company, who falls for his boss' new assistant, Summer Finn (Zooey Deschanel). Both have shared interests in music but Tom is an old romantic, believing in love and that Summer is the one, whilst Summer does not believe in love and not into relationships. The film tells the highs and lows of the 500 days Tom knows Summer and the perfect girl may not be the right girl.Scott Neustadter and Michael H. Weber write a very funny, fresh script, with first-time director Marc Webb making it in a stylist, fast paced film. The dialogue was funny, but grounded, stuff that people would really say, adding to the humour. The situation is something we all would have faced, we have idealised someone we liked, focusing on all the good aspects, think they are perfect and end up heartbroken when it does not work out. With the nonlinear style it was almost like a Quentin Tarrantino style film (with a lot less bloodshed); allowing us to see at different stage what happened to the couple and how event could have a different mean when looked from a different angle. The characters are natural and real, particularly with what they say, how they act and dress. Webb and the writers avoid clichés as much as possible.Webb injects real some style into the film: he keeps a quirky nature throughout the films, with little tricks like flashbacks about Summer, the cut scenes of when Tom describes what he likes (and hates) about Summer and to the use of animation. This is one type of film a first time director should be being, inventive, focusing on characters and a simple but strong story (and it can work in any genre). If a director is lumbered with a big project as their first film they do not have the experience, they have not yet developed their knowledge and are usually just a gun-for-hire. Webb also does not use a traditional score and simply uses songs, adding the indie nature of the film.Gordon-Levitt and Deschanel were a convicting couple. It is easy to relate to Tom's situation, falling for someone who does not feel the same way, thought I am more likely to agree with Summer's view on love. Tom is a typical man whilst Summer is a indie chick and even when she is a bitch you just can't help but love her. Their performances are natural and believable throughout. The supporting cast is also good, from Tom's friends, one of them being overly eager and likes to drink, McKenzie (Geoffrey Arend) and Paul (Matthew Gray Gubler) who had a been in a long term relationship. His boss (Clark Gregg) is even made out to be a decent guy. However there was not enough of Chloe Moretz, who was a smart, wise-beyond her years girl who offers the best advise. Moretz is clearly going to be a force to be reckoned with in the future.A fine, entertaining little film.
There are plenty excellent dystopic movies, and even movies that feature killer kids like Battle Royale and A Clockwork Orange, which combined the two. The adaptation of The Hunger Games can stand alongside them with its head held high. The Hunger Games is a dark, grim movie that is brutal with its violence (or as brutal as a PG-13 movie can be) and a character-driven story that is brilliantly led by Jennifer Lawrence with a talented supporting cast. Gary Ross was able to bring us into this futuristic world and the use of shaky cam was a benefit not a hindrance. The Hunger Games shows a well-created world and society with plenty of ideas of its own about violence in the youth and reality TV. There was a Truman Show-like feel during the second half of the movie with the gamemakers manipulating the arena. A little disclaimer, I was lucky enough to see the proper American cut.Please visit www.playeraffinity.com
There are many benefits for studios turning to stories in the public domain: Easy name recognition, freedom to re-interpret the material and most of all, it is free. The Three Musketeers has gone through a number of adaptations over the years; what Alexandre Dumas must think of Paul W. S. Anderson's steampunk version of his classic novel is something many of us would love to know.In the early 17th Century, France has a young king, Louis XIII (Freddie Fox), but Cardinal Richelieu (Christoph Waltz) is really the power behind the throne. After a failed mission in Venice to steal Leonardo Da Vinci's airship plans, musketeers Athos (Matthew Macfadyen), Porthos (Ray Stevenson) and Aramis (Luke Evans) quit being swashbuckling adventurers. A young man, D'Artagnan (Logan Lerman) dreams of becoming a Musketeer himself and is able to reunite the Musketeers when France is in peril. The Duke of Buckingham (Orlando Bloom) has made a powerful airship that could be used by France's natural enemy, England. Richelieu and his agent Milady de'Winter (Milla Jovovich) want to plant evidence that Buckingham is having an affair with Queen Anne (Juno Temple) to neutralise her as a threat to their plans.Anderson has a bit of a reputation for ruining beloved franchises and he filmed in 3D, which has a reputation all of its own. Luckily, his version of The Three Musketeers isa lot better then expected. The action sequences have what you want: A lot of sword fights, a bit of flint-lock action and of course what all movies need, giant airship battles over Paris. These scenes are fast and very well edited. Anderson at least has some abilities on that front, but he is still drawn to some over-stylised moments, such as when Milady de'Winter has to steal a necklace from a room filled with razor wire.Considering the budget is estimated at around $75 million, the special effects were very strong and helped make the action sequences look more convincing. The obvious highlight is the use of airships whether battling in the skies or crashing into the ground. But the 3D effects did not enhance the movie's experience. It was actually a distraction during a swordfight and it made some of the green screen effects obvious because of a lack of depth in the background. This was a movie that needed to be in 2D.Anderson attempted to make a movie in the spirit of "Pirates of the Caribbean," "Sherlock Holmes" and "Indiana Jones." He essentially lifted scenes from those movies to make a light-hearted adventure. For example, the raid into the vault was like the opening sequences of Raiders of the Lost Ark, the drawing introducing the characters was like the drawing at the end of Sherlock Holmes and the airship battles were similar to the "Pirates" movies. Much of the comedy felt very focused and unfunny. The big running jokes were Louis XIII wanting to copy Buckingham's fashion because he is a style guru and the Musketeers insulting their assistant Planchet (James Corden) as he tries to prove himself. The score was very much a cross between those aforementioned movies, and its general feel was very much like the 2007 fantasy Stardust (maybe it was the Airships).The movie drags when the Musketeers are not on screen and the plot centres on an awkward teenage romance. People want to see the Musketeers fighting, investigating and stopping a major plot like an assassination. The Musketeers must retrieve a necklace to stop a war, but also make sure the queen shows her love for the king. Most of the characters are dull, which makes the romantic subplots even worse, when D'Artagnan kisses the Queen's Lady in Waiting (Gabriella Wilde), it felt like two 10-year-olds having their first awkward kiss. There is no real explanation of the characters' motives and often you just want the movie to go back to the Musketeers, not the internal politics of the French Court.Lerman is the lead and he does not come off with much glory. He spoke in an American accent, which was disconcerting when most of the cast spoke in English and European accents. Lerman had no chemistry with the other actors along with his unbelievable romance. The actual Musketeers were very good, featuring definable personalities and ably played. Macfadyen was a stoic leader fighting his own demons when he is called back into action. He is quiet, but there is anger within him. Stevenson played his character very much like Titus Pullo from Rome, minus the sex and swearing -- a soldier who is good at what he does. Evans' character was underdeveloped, but that is because of the script. He did his best with the little he had.Waltz was basically on auto-pilot and Mads Mikkelsen was playing Le Chiffre again, but as a henchman. Fox's Louis XIII is an annoying little twit who has a decent heart, but little brains, oblivious to the world around him as he tries to win over his mouse of a wife. Bloom was surprisingly strong as a smarmy playboy with an aura of arrogance surrounding him. He should really consider playing more antagonistic characters in the future. And Jovovich was there simply to beat people up and look sexy, but certainly not for her acting talents.The Three Musketeers is a movie that delivers on swashbuckling, but if it had cut much of the swearing, then it could have easily received a PG rating. Violence-wise there has been much worse in PG-13 movies.
...and I loved it for it.The plot of the film is Ethan Hawk is recruited back in IMF after going into semi-retirement. An agent he had trained had been captured by Owen Davian, a major weapons trader, and Hawk has to go and save her. She gets killed during the rescue and this leads to Hawk having a vendetta against Davian and his team captures him in the Vatican City. At the same time IMF are looking for a secret weapon called the Rabbit's Foot. Subplots of the film are Hawk's relationship and marriage and his guilt about the death of his former agent. (I don't want to give too much away).Mission Impossible III was directed by J.J. Abrams, creator of Alias and Lost. He wrote the script with two other Alias writers and the film has many features that were in Alias. The action was non-stop, the acting was good, especially Philip Seymour Hoffman as Owen Davian, who seemed to really enjoy playing a villain. The film has many qualities of Alias. They are international locations, including Berlin, Rome and Shanghai. The use of martial arts and the characters being resourceful. They were also good dialogue in the film and some humorous moments, especially with Simon Pegg who was playing a Marshall type character from Alias. If you are an Alias or Bond fan (especially if you liked Pierce Bronsan) then this film would interest you. It may not have the gritty realism of Casino Royale or the Bourne Trilogy (which are both excellent, especially Casino Royale), but it still has the felt that it set down to Earth, unlike Moonraker or Die Another Day. Many people have said that the film was more like the show because of the use of teamwork. I cannot judge because I never watched the show, but it's better then the previous two films because of the use of a team.My only complain is really a complain of the series. It is basically Schizophrenic because in the first film Hawk was with the CIA, second IMF was a part of an Interpol type organisation and the third its an independent US agency. I would have preferred it if they dropped the IMF title and made it a CIA dark-op division or something on those lines.The film did not do as well as expected in the box office, but it was not because of the film itself, but because of Tom Cruise's off-camera antics.
The reboot of the Spider-man series did rub many fans the wrong way, retelling the original story and heavily influenced by Christopher Nolan's Dark Knight series. The sequel to The Amazing Spider-Man is fortunately a much more confident superhero film that is able to stand on its own two feet. From this sequel of a rebooted franchise, we finally get to see what a true Spider-Man film feels like.Peter Parker (Andrew Garfield) is enjoying life as Spider-Man, but he keeps seeing Captain Stacy (Denis Leary) everywhere he goes, causing trouble with his relationship with Gwen Stacy (Emma Stone). As Gwen has the opportunity to have a scholarship to Oxford University, Peter starts to find out more about why his mother and father left him as a child.At Oscorp, Harry Osborn (Dane DeHaan) returns home to see his dying father (Chris Cooper) and takes over the company. Harry also finds out that he has inherited his father's fatal illness, which causes skin to have a green tint and teeth and fingernails to grow fangs and claws. Desperate to find a cure he sees his best hope is getting some of Spider-man's blood, as he battles his rivals in Oscorp.A new villain also starts to stalk the streets of New York, Max Dillon, AKA Electro (Jamie Foxx), a Spider-man obsessive and electrical engineer at Oscorp, who gains electrical powers in an accident, where he begins to crave massive amounts of power and electricity from the city. Due to this, he becomes a major threat to the citizens of New York and Spider-Man.The first Amazing Spider-man film does have its fans and it is a perfectly solid superhero film, but it is difficult to separate it from Sam Raimi's original and easy to make comparisons, particularly with the storyline. The Amazing Spider-man 2 is a more assured film, feeling less like a revisionist take and more like an adaption of the comics, both classic and modern.Marc Webb returns as director while Star Trek writers Alex Kurtzman and Roberto Orci and Fringe writer, Jeff Pinkner, have taken over the scripting duties. The team perfectly mix the light heartedness and comedic tone of the comic, right along side with the more serious elements. Garfield's Spider-Man is even more of a joker, making jokes as he battles crime and he is more of a tinkerer as he looks for a solution to battle Electro and his electrical powers. Garfield is confident in the role and it is easy to argue he is the best on screen Spider-Man. Some of the jokes do fall flat, but the humour for the most part is very strong.The colours are brighter than they were in the first The Amazing Spider-Man and the ultra-advance technology in Oscorp is toned down for the better. Webb supplies some great action sequences, whether it is a car chase in New York using practical effects, to the more CGI heavy fight between Spider-Man and Electro in a power station. Webb brings some stylish moments, using slow-mo and even stops time to allow us to have full spatial awareness.Webb and the writers do balance the big scale of the story and the corporate politics of Oscorp and Peter Parker's personal drama. It was more ambitious and satisfying then The Amazing Spider-Man was. Sony clearly want to up the future trajectory for the series with actors like Paul Giamatti, Felicity Jones and B.J. Novak being cast in seemingly small roles, but fans of the comics and cartoons will know their real significance. As much as all of these elements combine to make a great film, the ending of this sequel falls a bit flat and feels rushed.Garfield and Stone show once again they have strong screen chemistry and they are a better couple than Tobey Maguire and Kirsten Dunst. The Amazing Spider-Man 2 improves upon its predecessor by having a much stronger villain. DeHaan continues to show his talent as a desperate young man looking to survive, as he has been thrust into a situation he's not ready for. DeHaan also gets to show a lighter side as he jokes with Peter and Harry and Peter did feel like old friends. There is a more psychological approach with the portrayal of Electro, a bullied, lonely man who is craving to be noticed, even if the attention he gets is negative and his relationship with Spider-Man was similar to Syndrome's with Mr. Incredible in The Incredibles.The Amazing Spider-man 2 is a sequel that improves on the first film of the rebooted series, delivering on the action, humour and emotional stakes. Fans of the old and new series will be happy with the results. Raimi's Spider-Man 2 is still the best in the series, having the most emotional weight but The Amazing Spider-Man 2 does give it a run for its money.The mid-credits scene in the UK was a big surprise but it has now been ruined thanks to many media outlets. There is no scene at the end of the credits.Please visit www.entertainmentfuse.com
When I first saw the trailer for Unstoppable I thought that it just looked like Thomas the Tank Engine on steroid, particularly an episode where Edward the old engine had to save the cocky younger train James who had become a runaway engine. Whilst Unstoppable is a festival of action clichés, it is not a Thomas the Tank Engine (which I loved as a child) and it a surprisingly exciting film.Loosely based a true story of a runaway train in Ohio. Denzel Washington plays Frank Barnes a veteran train engineer of 28-year-olds and Will Colston (Chris Pine), a young conductor who are forced to work together despite a generational rift. At the same time an idiot engineer Dewey (Ethan Suplee) lets a freight train with hazardous material runaway at 70 miles an hour. With Connie Hooper (Rosario Dawson) wanting to manage the disaster, her corporate boss Galvin (Kevin Dunn) takes control and every effort he does goes wrong. The only people who may be able to avoid a catastrophe are the two train drivers, with the hope to catch the train.Tony Scott is a master at delivering an action film and he is the Tom Clancy of directors (I mean that as a compliment). He has a able to mix action, real life and the media reaction to the event. Scott has a very kinetic style of direction, he shoot every scene like it was an action scene. The camera never stays still and he shoots in that grey, grainy style he likes so much. He is a traditionalist, he takes and makes the action sequences as real as possible. He uses stunts and old-school techniques to give Unstoppable a realistic feel and only uses CGI if there was no other option. But there is only so many times he can show aerial shots of trains speeding in the countryside before it gets boring. There is also a ridiculous scene where the police try and shoot at a train to hit the emergency brake which was next to the fuel tank; but only the Americans think that shooting at something solves a problem. Scott does deliver excitement with the action.The script is clichéd filled, there is the old and young man combo who have a dislike for every other, with the old man being a hard-ass and wise, not having to following the rules, whilst the young girl is cocky, both guys having troubled relationships at home and having to prove themselves as heroes for the friends, that business men at a major company think more about money then the human live and ignore the advice of the people on the ground, true working class people and that everything that can go wrong will go wrong. The scenes in the control room felt like that it was from 24 and there is a similar tone to Armageddon, but this film is better then that. Scott was pretty much given a 1970s/80s style disaster movie and he set out to bring in modern directional techniques and sequences in this fast paced package.But despite the clichés the actors have such authority that they do give their roles some quality. Washington is an excellent actor and this film is Chris Pine's big follow-up after Star Trek: both actors have strong chemistry together. Dawson is a glamorous woman in really life and I feared she was miss casted, but she was more grounded both in looks and performance and was injecting a Michelle Dresser character in the role; but I feel that her character was added because the film makers wanted a prominent female character and there is a lack of depth in her despite the rivalry with her boss. Also whilst Dunn did do his best and was good in film, it seemed that he casted because James Gandolfini was unavailable. Washington and Dawson also offered moments of deadpan comedy and Suplee is a natural comic talent. The film is serious in it's action and story but Scott did want inject some comedy.Overall, if you enjoy trains and railways you will like it and there are plenty of action scenes for fans. The story is standard but it is done well.
I was around 10/11-years-old when this film came out and it still appeals to that part of me. The basic plot of the film is that alien spaceships suddenly come to Earth and hover over major cities such as New York, Los Angeles, Washington, London, Moscow etc. The American government debate on what to do and how to communicate with the aliens. At the same time, a senior engineer at a television company, David (Jeff Goldblum), discovers strangle goings on and suspects the aliens. He realises that they were using the world's satellites against them and were planning to attack the Earth. After racing off the save the American President the aliens attacked and destroyed the world's major cities and planned to attack other cities such as Houston. When the American tried to fight the aliens were far stronger and technologically advanced.The film is dumb, but that is why it works. You can just swing your brain off and just watch it. Its meant to be loud, its meant to have a lot of action and explosions. It had good special effects for its time and it helped Will Smith from a TV star to a major movie star. This film is Roland Emmerich's best. He is German director who is famous for directing big budget action films. He only other good film was the Day After Tomorrow.This film does have faults, but it is just a fun movie and to me a symbol of the mid 90s.
Rambo III is an incredibly dumb piece of Reganite rubbish and the worst of the Rambo films. It shows that at the time the Rambo series was running out of stream and ended the series for 20 years.After the events in Rambo: First Blood Part II John Rambo was living and working with Buddhist monks in Thailand, helping them build their temple and rise money by fighting in stick fights. His old Colonel (Richard Crenna), tries to get recruit Rambo to work with him once more. This time he was going into Afghanistan were the Soviet Union had invade. Colonel Trautman obviously wants the best man he can. However Rambo refuses, saying his war was over i.e. Vietnam. Rambo quickly changes his mind when he finds out that Colonel Trautman was captured by the Soviet forces and being torture. Rambo sets off from Pakistan into Afghanistan, meeting up with the Mujahideen and becoming a part of their community. He finds out the Soviet Command (Marc de Jonge) was brutal, setting up landmines and attacking villages at will with helicopters. He sets out orders to kill men, rape women, take away women and kill babies to prevent the new generation of Afghans (that bit reminded me of Come and See). With the help of the Mujahideen, Rambo set out to go into the Soviet fortress, rescue Colonel Trautman and the Afghan hostiles, and hunt down the Soviet leadership.The film is just a live-action cartoon with the level of violence and the way some people die, such as Rambo use of explosive arrows, to him driving a tank into a helicopter, to the large number of deaths that Rambo was responsible for. This film was a product of its time. Some of the action scenes were fun, like the night raid and the stick fighting, but some was over the top and lack any style. The director of the film was Peter MacDonald and this was his first feature. His experience was as a Camera Operator and in the 2nd Unit, and has worked in films such as Rambo II, Batman, the Bourne Ultimatum and X-Men Origins Wolverine. It was obvious he was just a gun-for-hire to do what he was told. I don't put much blame on him, he should just stick to what he is good at. The major problem of the film was the writing. The film's plot is weak at best and had nothing new to say or do for the action genre. It was nothing different to it to Rambo II. Politically the film was wrong; it made out that the Soviet Union was pure evil, especially considering that by the time American and Soviet relations were warming up. As well the American could do nothing wrong. As well history has proved that the Mujahideen were not all goodness and light, with them becoming the Taliban and biting the hand that fed them. It funny that the Americans ignore their past about them hating America and just focused on the anti-Soviet element, not realising they will be trouble. Rambo III was ridiculous and dated really quickly.Its pure pantomime.At least Rambo finds his soul in the new film.
I could not watch this film and I switched off after 40 minutes. A film which is all style and no substance. This film is about Domino Harvey, a posh English girl who became a bounty hunter in LA. This film is meant to be loosely based on a true story: however I felt that this film was totally unrealistic, the plot, the characterisation, the idea of the type of people involved with bounty hunting and the type of activities they got involved in. Many of the scenes I saw felt forced and some ideas were stupid, such as the reality TV show and the DMV woman going on a Jerry Springer type show. The script was weak, especially since it was written by Richard Kelly, the written and director of Donnie Darko. The acting was mediocre. Tony Scott's direction was weak, he was could not hold the story and uses plot devices and uses style and direction tricks to keep the audience's attention. He failed. Tony Scott is normally a good director, but this by far his worst film. Its just not worst trying to watch this film.
When I heard that the Damned United was going to be made into a film my first thoughts were how could it be done? The novel is a complex book told in an initial monologue and in flashbacks and many different themes and subplots.The Damned United is about the football manager Brain Clough and his ill-fated 44 days as Leeds United manager and his raise to the post. The book tells of his end of his playing career, time as manager of Hartlepool, Derby and Brighton, his rivalry with Don Revie and drive to become England manager. Both the novel and the film shows how this obsession destroys Clough's relationship with his best friend Peter Taylor and with the Derby County board. The screenwriter Peter Morgan does the smart thing when adapting the novel by slimlining the story to focus on the rivalry of Clough and Revie, and how Clough was so driven to be better then him he ends up ruining his career at Derby and with friendship with Peter Taylor. It is a personal story about a very interesting character in English sporting history. The strongest aspect of the story is the acting. Michael Sheen is a fantastic actor who seems to be on a mission to play as many famous British people as possible. He gets Cloughie spot on in the film. The other stand out performance is from Timothy Spall who plays Peter Taylor (despites the fact he looks nothing like man). Spall is able to do both serious and comic which was needed in the film and you do believe the friendship between the two, then fact they need each other. The director of the film is Tom Hooper who has a successful career on television. He does a pretty good with the film, getting the feel of the 70s, working class culture and the roughness of English football just right. He is strong with set-pieces and the character development. He seems to have a promising career ahead of him.Unfortunately the film is disloyal to some of the history and the novel, mainly that Clough did become manager of Brighton. But the film needed to lighten up to appeal to non-fans of the book, making Clough into a more sympathetic character. The film also added a bit of humour to the story.The Damned United is a solid film, a 3 out of 5, but the novel is a lot better. The film is best for people who were around at the time of Clough earlier management career.
What's not to love about Where Eagles Dare? It is an good old action film which is meant to be fun. A classic for it's type of World War Two genre.The premise is simple, the Nazis captured General Carnaby, an American General who was on-route to Crete to talk with her generals about the Second-Front. He is held in a German fortress near the Austrian border and MI6 sent a team, led by Major Smith (Richard Burton) and American Lieutenant Schaffer (Clint Eastwood). Their mission is simply, get into the base disguised as German soldiers, get the general and get out. However, the plan is not as simple as they thought. Smith parachute an British agent, Mary (Mary Ure) and that they is more the operation then first appears.The action is excellent, with great gun and hand-to-hand fights, especially the fight on the cable carts, and Clint Eastwood's use of guns and explosives. It's a simple but enjoyable film and Richard Burton makes a surprisingly good action star. The direction by Brian G. Hutton was brilliant for this type of film and he was able to repeat it with Kelly's Heroes. Richard Burton and Clint Eastwood are both excellent actors and are good in this, and so are most of the supporting actors.The only real problem with the film is with the amount of plot twists, which makes the film unbelievable. It's best not to apply real-world logic to the film.It's an enjoyable romp.
To some people the release of Blade was a watershed in comic book films, leading to a more serious tones in the genre. I personally think the real watershed film was Bryan Singer's X-Men, but that doesn't stop the first Blade film being an enjoyable film and still important film the vampire and action genres. The first Blade film was very successful with only a modest budget, a sequel seemed to make good business sense. New Line ensured that it kept their star and writer of the first film and comic book fan David S. Goyer. They also hired a top director, Guillermo del Toro to ensure it was more then a simple cash-in.Two years after the events of Blade, our hero (Wesley Snipes) is on the search for his mentor Whistler (Kris Kristofferson) in Eastern Europe. Whisper had been held hostage by the vampires, who Blade assumed had killed himself to avoid becoming a vampire. Blade is able to rescue Whistler and reform the team with their new member Scud (Norman Reedus). Within the vampire world a new enemy has be born, the Reapers. The Reapers feed on vampires, have all their strengths, but can resist garlic and silver. Sunlight is their only weakness. They are lead by Jared Nomak (Luke Goss), but the Reapers are an almost zombie like creature, needing to feed daily to survive. The vampire nation offers Blade a truce; to help them destroy the Reapers before they become a threat to humanity. He offered to lead a team called the Bloodpack, a special team that were meant to kill Blade. Included in this team are Nyssa Damaskinos (Leonor Varela), daughter of the vampire leader, and Reinhardt (Ron Perlman), a vampire who has a particular dislike for Blade. The teams unite to stop the powerful Reapers.They is a good mix of a dark serious tone that made the first film really good, but with a decent mix of humour and one-lines to balance things out and make Blade II a excellent action film. Del Torro directs some fantastic action and fight sequences, but also brings his own style to the film. It shows he has a good eye for this type of film. He also adds some horror moments which another strength of his. He makes a first paced, entertaining film.The theme of enemies uniting to face a greater foe is nothing new. It was done in X-Men 2 (which was released a year later), in Tom Clancy's Jack Ryan series, in computer games like the newer Sonic games, Bond films, the lists goes on. But it was done well in this film, and there are plot twists and betrayals in this film. There is also good interplay between Wesley Snipes and Ron Perlman (who latter works with Del Torro in Hellboy).The first Blade film deals with a almost religious element of the vampire world with the re-birth of the Blood God. In Blade II Goyer tackles the issue from the other direction, a scientific view of vampirism as a virus, and the idea of evolution. We also get to see more of the vampire's world in this film and less of the human world. I like the idea of modernising the vampire myth.There is a good cast. Wesley Snipes is perfect as Blade, both as a somber character, as a fighter and knows how to deliver a one-liner. Kris Kristofferson returns to the mix and is decent. Ron Perlman as already mention a fine member of the cast, so is Luke Goss as the villain and the fine German actor Thomas Kretschmann as the leader of the vampires.Finally the soundtrack is very fitting for the film.An entertaining film for Blade, comic book, material arts and vampire fans.
There is big divide of opinion between critics and audiences about The Boondock Saints: critics hated it when first released and The Boondock Saints has a 17% rating on Rotten Tomatoes but audiences loved it, having a 7.8/10 on IMDb and has become a cult hit. But I side with the critics about this film and there are some detractors even in audiences.Connor (Sean Patrick Flanery) and Murphy MacManus (Norman Reedus) are two Irish Catholic brothers living in Boston and workers in a meat packing factory. After an altercation with some Russian gangsters which result in the brothers having to kill in self-defence. They soon discover their have a talent for killing and put it to good use to get rid of all the evil of the world, killing gangsters, perverts, rapists, murderers, etc and believe they are doing God's work. But by doing this they upset the Russian and Italian mafias and an FBI agent, Paul Smecker (Willem Dafoe) is investigating their crimes.The Boondock Saints is basically a poor man's Quentin Tarantino/Guy Ritchie film, failing to match on a plot, comedy, action and dialogue level. The acting throughout is horrendous, either lacking any conviction or very over the top, though Dafoe did at least looked like he was having fun. The action was filmed in a slightly stylised fashion and competently handled but Troy Duffy overused slow motion like he was Guy Ritchie or John Woo but did not have their experience. The actions are not even filmed as they were happening, they were filmed as flashbacks and Duffy just fares to black to show a show the passing of time which felt very lazy. The gunplay was strong.The jokes, comedy and the comic performances just fell flat. It was poorly written, not funny and the dialogue was a poor attempt at copying Tarantino and Ritchie. There is no real understanding how to make a action-comedy. There are tonal shifts from it trying to be a light hearted romp to being a very violence dark fest, an example being the brothers kill their targets gangland style, shooting them in the back of the head at point blank range. The MacManus use religion to justify there actions and there is a very right wing slant to this film. It would have worked better if the brothers were villains, using religion to justify their actions, manipulating religious text as a justification and the police have to investigate.The Boondock Saints is not the almighty classic that some people think it is. It is a poor comedy, over stylised though some of the action set pieces do save it.
Chariots of Fire is a sports drama, British style. This is the film that is the template for all sports afterwards. Chariots of Fire is set from 1919 to the 1924 Paris Olypmics. It forces on two athletics, Harold Abrahams, a student at Cambridge university and from a Jewish background, and Eric Liddell, a committed Scottish Christian. Both become rivals and the film shows them trying to improve themselves, working hard to get into the British Olympics team. Abarahams has to battle against Cambridge's elitist system and even against anti-Semitism, such as stereotypes like Jews were money lenders and thinking he would favour his religion over his country. Liddell personal battle is between his wish for sporting success which conflicted with his religious beliefs. This even led to Liddell having to sacrifice running in his favoured race because the event because it was on the sabbath.Unlike most in most sports films, even good ones like Cinderella Man, the rivals do not have a hatred for each other nor make out one be sympathetic hero and the other an unlikely villain. Both Abrahams and Liddell were just made out to be men who wanted to do well and even had respect for each other. That was an aspect I liked in this film. Also by having two major characters you got to see the different challenges the athletes had to face and help with the drama.The direction by Hugh Hudson was good, especially the sports scene. Those scenes have become iconic and so has the musical score. The acting was also top quality and the script is decent. However I personally thought at times the film was a like cold and hollow and also a little slow.This is a film more about sport. They are obvious themes about the old boy system and Cambridge, religion, personal sacrifice, friendship and self-improvement.
Planet Terror was the first half of Grindhouse, Robert Rodriguez and Quentin Tarantino's homage to low budget, double features of their youth. But when Grindhouse failed in the States Planet Terror and Death Proof were split into two films; with the hope of making more money. But whilst Tarantino is well known to people who to people who don't know film very well giving Death Proof hope, Planet Terror was going to suffer because Robert Rodriquez was not as well know and posters and trailers were only going to appeal to a hardcore audience.Set in a small town in rural Texas a virus is accidentally released after a deal between a scientist, Abby (Naveen Andrews) and military man Lt. Muldoon (Bruce Willis) goes badly wrong. Within the town people start to get inflected and become mindless zombies. Many people have are cause in the middle of it, including go-go dancer Cherry Darling (Rose McGowan) who loose her leg, her ex-boyfriend El Wray (Freddy Rodriguez) who has had run-ins with the law and good with guns, the town sheriff (Michael Biehn) who leads the operation and Dr. William Brock (Josh Brolin) and his wife Dr. Dakota Brock (Marley Shelton) who see the zombie spreading first hand as there go through marriage problems.When a film has a poster of a girl with a gun for a leg and has a man who punishes failure by cutting off someone's testicles, then you shouldn't be expecting an art-house classic. Robert Rodriguez knows this is B-Movie and has fun with it: he relishes the action and violence that happens throughout the film and there is plenty of comedy with the over-the-top action. Robert Rodriguez direction was very much like if George A. Romero and John Carpenter had a love child. Freddy Rodriguez was very effective in the action hero role, showing his skills with guns and knifes and had the right sort of build, not too big, not too small. McGowan too was quite good and what can be more fun then seeing a woman with a gun for a leg. Shelton was also a effective heroine and looked plenty damn good. Willis and Brolin offers some gravitas to the film, Willis was of particular note in his small role where he was more of a villainous role for a change.Planet Terror is a exactly what it was meant to be, a parody and homage to low-budget grindhouse of the 70s. Whilst it doesn't match Death Proof for quality it's still a lot of fun. Plus there are a few references to Death Proof.
Gladiator and the Lord of the Rings Trilogy have both got a lot to answer for. Because of the success of those two movies studios rediscovered the money making power swords and sandals and fantasy epics. In the space of a few short years we saw the release of Alexander, King Arthur, Kingdom of Heaven, 300, Eragon and The Last Legion with new films about Robin Hood and the Hobbit in development. Troy itself is one of the most expensive films ever made, with a budget of $180 Million, which was a massive amount, even in 2004. It was a massive risk for Warners Brothers.Troy is loosely based on the famous epic poem, The Iliad by Homer (not the Simpsons' character), and the history of the time, but it's hardly debatable on whether Troy ever existed. It focuses on the conflict between the city state of Troy and a loose alliance of Greek states led by King Agamemnon (Brian Cox). This war was stated when the Troyan prince Paris (Orlando Bloom) falls in love with Helen (Diane Kruger), wife of King Menelaus' (Brendan Gleeson) of Spata. But this also gives Agamemnon an excuse to attack Troy and conquer the city. In the middle of this was conflict is the Greek hero Achilles (Brad Pitt). He is an insubordinate soldier and dislikes Agamemnon; but he longs for glory, women and to be remembered in history. He is convicted to first in the war by King Odysseus (Sean Bean), especially when he tries to recruit Patroclus (Garrett Hedlund), Achilles' cousin (lover in the poem). Troy is lead by King Priam (Peter O'Toole), a kind ruler to his people but not willing to back down from the fight, and Prince Hector (Eric Bana), a skilled fighter and commander. They seek to defence Troy the best they can, but Priam and his advisers were too reliance for help from the Gods. Hector is more realist in his opinions. As well as Achilles' rivalry with Agamemnon, he develops a rivalry with Hector. Both are their side's both fighters. Achilles ends up hating Hector after Hector kills Patroclus in battle.Troy takes a more realistic view on the Trojan War. The writer, David Benioff, and director, Wolfgang Petersen, do not show the Greek Gods involved in the war. This seems to be a good move and tries to show how ancient wars would have been fought. This is strongest element of Troy, showing the director styles of conflict, the epic battles and the one of one fights with a vary of weapons. The film is violence, showing that conflict was bloody, and it had a 15 rating in the UK. Unfortunately there was no served limps like in 300 or Kill Bill which is a shame.Wolfgang Petersen seems like a safe pair of hands, directing the famous classic of German cinema Das Boot, to Hollywood action films like Air Force One and In the Line of Fire. He handles the action really well in this film. He also assembles one hell of a cast, Brad Pitt, Eric Bana, Brain Cox, Sean Bean, Peter O'Toole, Brendan Gleeson and Rose Byrne. But the cast is hit and miss. Brain Cox is the strongest performance as the villain of the film. Sean Bean is good and it good to see he is more then the traditional evil English bloke. Rose Byrne, Peter O'Toole and Eric Bana were also pretty. Brad Pitt, an actor I normally like, offered his weakest performance in this film. I didn't really believe in his character. Achilles is a very unlikable and unengaging character in the film. Also Orlando Bloom, shows once again that except for Lord of the Rings, that he can't act. He was just a pretty boy and is type-casted to be in fantasy, epics and a combo of the two. Garrett Hedlund was also a really poor actor. The film also ended as an action cliché.A element I like in the film is that it shows a mixed picture. Only Agamemnon was a real villain of the film, and the rest of the characters had their reasons for fighting. The Trojans are more sympathetic, but the Greeks are not hateful or stupid like the English in Braveheart. Even Agamemnon had strategic reasons behind why he invaded Troy.I have never read the Iliad, but it's ready on my bookshelf. But an element of the film I did not like was the war only lasted for a few weeks, where in the poem it was a 10-year conflict. The film also had too many characters and it was easy for some of them to disappear off the screen. One of my history leaturers at university also dislike the fact that Achilles was not gay, simily because Brad Pitt did not want to play the character as gay or bisexual.Troy is enjoyable enough, but not a classic. 3 out of 5.
What could have gone wrong with The Beach? It was based on a popular, critically acclaimed novel, starred Leonardo Di Caprio, who was considered one of the world's biggest stars after Romeo + Juliet and Titanic and was directed by Danny Boyle who had won plaudits for Shallow Grave and the excellent Trainspotting. Well, many things, but at least Di Caprio and Boyle were able to bound back with great success.Richard (Di Caprio) was an American traveller, landing in Bangkok, the starting point for many travellers going to South-East Asia. He goes to Thailand because he wants adventure and tries to avoid the usual tourist route. On his first day a mad Scotsman, Daffy Duck (Robert Carlyle), kills himself and leaves him a map to a small island with a legendary beach and lagoon. Richard befriends a young French couple, Françoise (Virginie Ledoyen) and Étienne (Guillaume Canet) and the two make their way onto the island. After a dangerous journey the three discover a commune of travellers, including the leader Sal (Tilda Swinton), her boyfriend Bugs (Lars Arentz-Hansen) and Keaty (Paterson Joseph), a Christian and a cricket fanatic. Life on the beach seems perfect, there is work to do but plenty of time to relax and to Richard it was what he wanted, a place away from the usual traveller crowd. But there are threats, the cannabis farmers who control the rest of the island, shark attacks whilst fishing and Richard's secret of giving the map to two surfers, Sammy and Zeph (Jerry Swindall and Peter Youngblood Hills). But Richard got what he wanted: adventure.The main problem was that The Beach was too disloyal to original novel. There are minor things that were agreeable, like changing Richard's and Sal's appearance, maybe changing Sal from American to British. But most others did not work. One of the main things that affected the film was changing Richard from being English into an American and well the film suffers because of it. Some scenes like when Richard meets the surfers loose their impact, mainly because in the book the surfers pretend to be a stupid cliché and both are actually very smart, but in the film they are both well, a stupid cliché. We don't get to see how Richard's mind ticks, like his obsession with Vietnam war movies, he personal reasons for travelling and his dreams with Daffy. Other elements that ruined the film include cutting the character Jed from the novel, who was an important character, befriending Richard and acts at the beach's protector and an outsider to the community. Even if the character had to be cut his characteristics could have been implanted into someone else like Keaty. The film also skips over other story elements that drive the plot, like the food poisoning and how that led to a conflict between two camps within the community.Acting wise the film does have some decent performances, like from the French actors Canat and Ledoyen and Swinton (who is normally a good actress). But it was Joseph who was the best of the cast, having excellent comic timing, even if his character was changed. But for Di Caprio this was one of his weakest performances. He was sadly quite wooden in the role and he just shouted a lot. We did not get to truly see why Richard was so excited about the prospect of adventure and it just felt hollowing, going through the motions. The actors who played the surfers were also noteworthy for weak performances.The novel was very organic in its plotting, feeling real, even at times it did feel a little slow. But in the screenplay and the director the film felt like it wanted to rush through everything, taking away some of the natural nature of the book. A great example of this was how Richard invited Étienne and Françoise on the trips and their basic plans: there was no realism behind it.There are some positives to the film. Boyle was able to add a little style into the film with some camera and editing tricks, like the camera going back quickly to reveal the waterfall and there are moments of tension and action with the cannabis farmers. Boyle also got the sense of the beach's hypnotic affects, making people forget about the outside word. There are also moments of comedy like when Keaty explains the rules of cricket. Boyle get the sense of what makes some travellers think, wanting to explore, party and partake in the local culture. It shows that Thailand has become very Westernised and that travellers are looking for the next big place before it is discovered and flooded by Westerners. I feel the same, I go on holiday to avoid English-people and I want to experience the local culture. Plus there is a good soundtrack, with the only good song by Moby as the signature track of the film. And there is some excellent cinematography and beautiful scenery throughout the film.At Di Caprio was able to make Catch Me if You Can and Gangs of New York to kickstart his career after two flops (The Beach and The Man in the Iron Man). Boyle also somehow made friends with Alex Garland, the author of The Beach (which is very surprising) and two were able make 28 Days Later and Sunshine. So The Beach was not all doom and groom.
There is no questioning Frank Miller's talent as a comic book writer, having written two of the best Batman graphic novels around, written some of the best Daredevil comics, co-wrote one of the most important story arcs for Wolverine, and of course written his own creations like Sin City and 300. He was touted by film studios to write screenplays, but had his scripts for Robocop 2 and the Batman reboot rejected. But he finally got his chance in Hollywood when he co-wrote and co-direct the adaption for Sin City with Robert Rodriguez and produced 300. He got to stand on his own two feet, writing and directing the adaption of The Spirit.Denny Colt (Gabriel Macht) is the Spirit, the protector of Central City. He was a former cop who died on duty, but somehow escaped the clutches of death. He cannot die and an injury he gets quickly heals. The Spirit works closely with the police, particularly the police chief (Dan Lauria). He is called into action against his nemesis the Octopus (Samuel L. Jackson). The Octopus is in the middle of a scheme with his trusted assistant Silken Floss (Scarlett Johansson) to receive an ancient Greek artifact. But The Octopus and The Spirit also have to content with with Sand Saref (Eva Mendes), Denny's childhood friend who had become a master jewel theft. It is up to the Spirit to stop them both.Sadly this was a poor film from Frank Miller. This was one project too much for him at this point in his directional career. Normally good director start out with small projects and work their way up. But Miller jumps straight into the deep end. The Spirit is stylist, and does like a sequel to Sin City. It looks good, but that is the only thing in the film in it's favour. Miller writes a weak script full of continuity errors, which is surprising considering how talented he was in the world of comics. Miller also directs a very camp affair which is annoying for the most part, the names and scenes in the broker's office and with Plaster of Paris (Paz Vega). And yet they are moments which are deadly serious, with the neo-noir style voice-over like in Sin City. The two don't mix well. Miller attempts to fill the film with moments of humour: but most are not particularly funny. The best moments of humour come from Louis Lombardi who plays a number of dim-witted clones, but all that was like a brief moment in Sin City when one of Manute's henchmen was shot in the chest with an arrow. It worked better as a brief scene.Most of the acting was terrible. Gabriel Macht tries but his talent was sadly limited. Samuel L. Jackson just played his role as over-the-top as possible, and well he at least seem to have fun whilst filming. Eva Mendes and Seychelle Gabriel were both weak playing the same character, which is said, and example of the campness of the film. Scarlett Johansson was just sleepwalking through this film, doing this until a better offer comes along. Stana Katic who played a rookie cop was particularly awful throughout the film, and Dan Lauria was playing a simple clichéd character. The only actor who comes out the film with any credit was Louis Lombardi as the comic relief.This film is not worth it, even if you are a die hard Frank Miller fan. He needs to write the sequel to Sin City and work with more experience directors like Robert Rodriguez and Zack Snyder before directing a solo project again.
From director Steven Soderbergh and an all-star cast the remake of Ocean's Eleven is a rare cast of remake is considered better then the original. Ocean's Eleven is a very entertaining caper film, filled with twists and turns as we see the plan unfold with both the preparation and the actual heist, centred around a strong performance by George Clooney as he got to use his trademark charm as he lead the film. All the characters have a moment to shine and they have distinctive characteristics. But the real star is Soderbergh who injects a lot of style into the film, using screen swipes, split screens, disjointed timelines and expert camera movements to transition to different scenes. There was even a great scene of flashbacks, shot in the styles of the era. Ocean Eleven's is one of Soderbergh's more mainstream efforts and he made a witty, entertainment heist flick. It is a film that is a great modernisation whilst still keeping a sense of 60s style cool, the clothes to the music.Yet the less we say about Don Cheadle's atrocious Cockney accent the better.
Comedy is seen as an everlasting stable of the British film industry and British culture in general. There are many great comedies from the nation and one of the most highly regarded films is Bruce Robinson's semi-biographical film, Withnail and I.Withnail (Richard E. Grant) and the unnamed "I" (Paul McGann) are two unemployed actors living in a squalid flat in Camden Town, London in 1969. Withnail is highly theatrical alcoholic and I is a more level headed and neurotic personality. Desperate to get away from London, Withnail asks his flamboyant Uncle Monty (Richard Griffiths) to stay in his cottage in the Lake District. But the pair's friendship is tested, due to the dilapidated conditions of the cottage, horrible wet weather, hostile locals and Monty' s sexual advances towards I.Withnail and I was a big flop when it was first released back in 1987 but found a second life thanks to the home video market and most importantly of all, university film societies. Now, the film is a cult classic, seen as compulsory viewing for any university student who considers themselves a film fan in the UK.There are two key reasons why Withnail and I is such a beloved film, the first being the script (particularly the dialogue) and the performances from Grant and McGann. Withnail and I is very quotable film, filled with witty and hilarious monologues and exchanges between the characters, as they navigate through more farcical situations together.Grant and McGann had a great working relationships, providing plenty of comic energy and had the chemistry the film needed. Grant was able to brings a lot of bravado as Withnail who has a theatrical delivery and attire, while McGann is the straight-man of the pair, yet still provides plenty of laughs. Both actors complemented Robinson's dialogue, enhancing the comedy, while Robinson uses a few visual gags and set pieces to make the audience laugh.Along with Grant and McGann, Withnail and I features a memorable supporting cast of British and Irish actors. The most notable are Griffiths as Uncle Monty, who's always trying get his way with I, yet has some moments of humanity and Danny, the philosophical drug dealer played by Alien 3's Ralph Brown. It is easy to see how Danny was an influence for the character of Super Hans in the sitcom Peep Show (if you have not seen Peep Show you should do so immediately).Withnail and I is not all comedy, it follows the old maxim of 'make them laugh, make them cry'. The friendship between Withnail and I does deteriorate during their holiday and the ending is tender, sombre and respectful towards the characters.Withnail and I is a classic comedy because its fantastically written characters, their dialogue with each other and the performances from the whole cast. There is a great recreation of the 1960′s with a soundtrack featuring the likes of Jimi Hendrix and The Beatles.Withnail and I also spawned a drinking game where participants need to copy what Withnail drinks: this features nine and half glasses of red wine, half a pint of cider, two and half shots of gin, six glasses of sherry, thirteen glasses of whisky, half a pint of ale and a shot of lighter fluid. If you try this, you will most certainly need your stomach pumped.
I consider this movie the American version of Trainspotting without the happy ending. This film focuses on four characters, Harry, Marion, Ty and Harry's mother Sara. All four characters have a dream, Harry wants to make money so he and Marion can move out of Brooklyn and have a better life. Marion wants to become a fashion designer and own her own shop. Ty also wants to become someone big and ends up working with local gangsters. Sara has the chance to be on TV and just wants to look her best and loose weight to fit in her red dress.Harry, Marion and Ty were already using heroin, whilst Sara became addicted to diet pills. In the summer Harry and Ty sold drugs for local gangsters and made a lot of money out of it. Harry and Marion becomes stronger and Ty raises through the ranks of the local gangster mob. When Sara finds out she was going to be TV she becomes the most popular woman in her building and the other women were only too willing to help. As the movie progresses the lives of all four characters breaks down and all their lives end up being destroyed. I felt the most sorry for Sara because it was not all her own fault like the others.This film has some brilliant acting. All four performances were great, Jennifer Connelly has always been an actress I liked and this is her strongest performance; Jared Leto shows get potential as an actor in this film and Ellen Burstyn was really good in the film. Darren Aronofsky's direction was really key to the film. He got the mood just right, getting the best out his actors, getting a good mix of realism and surrealism, good casting and some brilliant shots and good music. He was from Brooklyn himself so knew the area and therefore got good locations. A shot really liked from the film was when Marion left her shrink's apartment and the camera focuses on her all the way to the outside of the building.A word of warning about this film is that it is not for the faint-hearted, having some graphic scenes and this movie is a very depressing experience, don't expend an uplifting experience. You need to be in the right mood to watch this film, but it is well worth watching and it's message is very clear.
Take Shelter was considered one of the best films of 2011 and it is a very interesting study of the effects of mental illness, particularly on one's family and personal life. Starring two of the most talented actors around, Michael Shannon and Jessica Chastain, Take Shelter is an engaging experience that will satisfy fans of indie cinema.Curtis (Shannon) is a man with a good job, a good living and is married to Sam (Chastain) and has a young, deaf daughter Hannah (Tova Stewart). But Curtis is a man plagued with apocalyptic visions, from oil raining from the sky to people attacking him and his daughter. As the dreams get worst Curtis starts to rebuild an old storm shelter in his back garden, putting his family, financial and work life at risk, but also acknowledges his mental health problems.Take Shelter was a wonderfully acted film: Shannon and Chastian are two highly talented actors and they give two very natural and believable performances as Curtis descends into madness and Sam not knowing how to react. If you have seen Revolutionary Road or Broadwalk Empire you know Shannon can do crazy and there is a great moment when he does flip his lip, but for the most part he performance is grounded as his condition affects him and his family. The supporting cast were also strong throughout, but for the most part Take Shelter is the Shannon, Chastian show.Doing mental illness is very tricky to do on screen because it is hard to put on the screen visually and everyone who has a mental illness have different symptoms and react differently: some people are open about their condition to people who hide or ignore it. Writer/director Jeff Nichols does a great job showing Curtis' torment through dream sequences, rolling in mental agony and the mini actions that Shannon brings to the performance. Curtis acknowledges' his possible condition but continues with his folly, leading to a possible financial ruin for the family and even his daughter's health. Sam has a dilemma, furious at her husband for what she is doing but also sees the condition he is in.Nichols does a great job making the film visual with excellent imagery in the different sequences, giving the film a creepy feel. For a fairly low budget film the Special Effects that were of a high standard when used, looking at the sky with the clouds, the lightening and especially for the dream at the start of the third act.Take Shelter is a very good drama tackling a difficult subject. Nichols does a great job keeping the film going, being interesting and does not let it drag considering it takes on a sensitive subject. The performances were incredible and Take Shelter is worthy viewing.
The Coen Brothers are clearly recognised as two of the best filmmakers around, making well know classics like Miller's Crossing, Fargo, The Big Lebowski and No Country for Old Men. They are skilled writers, directors and producers and their films are often made independently. They have often made dramas and comedies. Whilst most director's first feature film is often a chance to test their skills and learn from trial and error, The Coen Brothers were able to make a great film the first time round.Blood Simple is a dark tale of murder and deceit in rural Texas. Abby (Frances McDormand) is an unhappily married woman who starts to have an affair with Ray (John Getz), her husband's bar manager. But the two don't know that they are watched by a private detective (M. Emmet Walsh), hired by Abby's husband Julian Marty (Dan Hedaya). When Marty gets humiliated by the two he offers to pay the detective $10,000 to kill them. But Marty is double crossed and the detective murders him and pockets the money.Whilst even in the Coen Brothers more serious effort they still find room for some lighter moments: but with Blood Simple it is a straight up, gritty story of murder and its implications. The Coen Brothers were able to assemble an excellent cast who play real, faulted characters. Some of them are very dodgy and hardly likable, but real and makes the audience care about happens to them. Abby was on the only really likable character whilst Samm-Art Williams plays a very down to Earth man who is unaware of everything that goes on. The plot on the surface seems simple and is easy to follow in a short running time, which is always a good thing in films; the Coen Brothers were able to explore some more complex issues. They ensure that the film is grounded, a event that could really happen and that murder is a very bloody, unconformable aware. The Coen Brothers also sorted to show the psychological toll that murder may have on someone.The Coen Brothers show their skill with Cinematographer Barry Sonnenfeld (who ended up as a successful director himself). They shot the film with a dark, gritty camera style have some wonderful images throughout, from a dark moment when Ray is out in the darkness of the area and even something simple when the camera follows Samm-Art Williams feet. They are long moments when there is little sound at all, but the directors were able to make the story and the actions so compelling that the audience will be totally engrossed by it.If you like Blood Simple then Fargo and No Country for Old Men are must see films.
Steve McQueen made a real impact in the film world with his powerful debut Hunger. But like with musicians, there is always the risk that a director's second film will not live up to the high expectations the first effort sets. Yet McQueen has a good go with his dark exploration of human character in Shame.Brandon (Michael Fassbender) is a successful and well off man living in New York City. He is also a sex addict who constantly picks up women, hires prostitutes, views internet porn daily and masturbates at any given opportunity. It affects his day to day life and he lives a lonely existence. His life is made more complex when his singer sister Sissy (Carey Mulligan), a woman with obvious problems, crashes at his place. She interferes with his life, including sleeping with his boss, David (James Badge Dale) and sets Brandon off to tackle his addiction.Brandon is depicted as a really despicable character, but he is a man struggling with an addiction. There is a number of sexual scenes throughout Shame, but there is no eroticism as Brandon explores more depraved and disgusting acts and his life spirals out of control. Shame plays as a drug addition movie, similar to Requiem for a Dream as someone struggles to give up something hazardous.Fassbender offers a powerful performance as a dark, sinister man with strong interplay with Mulligan as he becomes threatening towards her. Compare him to Mulligan, a much more brittle character, on the edge for different reason. She gives a heartbreaking performance as a woman who does not know how to do deal with problems and has a sadness in her eyes. Their scenes were enhanced by McQueen's direction, using hand held cameras to follows Fassbender and the conversations stick to one point, making you feel like you are really watching them in a voyeuristic matter. This makes the movie more tense as the tone changes in an instant.McQueen employs a grainy filter, giving Shame a dark, grim look which is perfectly fitting considering the atmosphere of the movie. The visuals have a similar feel and tone as other gritty and grim New York set films such as Taxi Driver, Midnight Cowboy and American Psycho, all of which follow the horrible underbelly of the city. He has shown that he is a great actors' director, but McQueen also had some great visuals, such as a long tracking shot of Brandon jogging and Brandon watching two people having sex in their apartment.There are many moments in the movie that have little dialogue, relying on Fassbender superb abilities as an actor, particularly key in the beginning and during a long montage of Brandon wandering alone in New York, playing like a scene in the great novel Last Exit to Brooklyn. This is a movie about Brandon's continuing descent and self-sabotage and Fassbender should hopefully gain an Oscar nomination to back up his award buzz in Europe.Shame continues McQueen's reputation as being one of the best emerging directors around, sticking to his no holds barred, brutal style which keeps a stage play quality to the presentation. Shame is tough, but worthy just for Fassbender's performance and keeps to a tradition of grim New York based film.Please visit www.playeraffinity.com
Scum was and still is a very controversial film when it was first made back in 1977, being banned from broadcast by the BBC and re-made by director Alan Clarke, turning it into a cinema release in 1979. This brutal flick is now considered a classic and was Ray Winstone's breakout role.Carlin (Winstone) is a young man transferred to a tough borstal (a youth prison) after assaulting a guard and is targeted by the wardens and the prison hard-nut/Daddy Banks (John Blundell), making him an example. Despite Carlin wanting to keep his head down, he is forced to take action and seize the role of the Daddy to protect himself and the younger prisoners from Banks and his cronies.While the story of Carlin's rise in the borstal is perfectly fine, what makes Scum so special and controversial was showing the wider picture of this horrific world. The depiction of violence, the physical and emotional abuse, the racism and cruelty of the regime is still shocking today, as it shows how broken the system was. There are some horrific sequences as Carlin brutally beats his rivals, a few extremely gruesome suicide attempts and a realistic, hard-to-watch gang rape scene of a teenage boy. Scum is a film that requires a strong stomach to view as Clarke shows the full horrors of violence. Blood is spilled and Clarke uses a deliberately minimalistic approach, giving Scum a more of a voyeuristic look, through its camera work and lack of music throughout the film to amplify the realism.The character of Arthur played Mick Ford serves as the critical voice of the borstal system. Arthur rebels using his intelligence and being as awkward possible, stating he is a vegetarian, refusing to wear leather shoes even in the cold winter and riles the Christian governor by looking at Atheism, Sikhism and Islam as alternative beliefs. Arthur sets out to use the rules of the system against it and seen arguing with the prison officials, questioning the treatment of prisoners particularly because of their ages and the idea of prison and whether it did any good at reforming people. A compelling scene is when Arthur is debating the rights and wrongs of incarceration with a senior prison guard as he avoids going to chapel and questions well why he takes such as a antagonistic approach with the authorities.Clarke has a reputation for hard-hitting, gritty stories with realistic violence and a political edge. Scum is the best example of this, as he vents his anger at a horrible system that fortunately no longer exists. As well as the exploration of racism, violence and bullying, Scum also looks at the dehumanisation effects on young people in this prison institution and small issues like some of the characters being unable to read, which could interpreted as either as an indictment of the wider education, that the characters may have a undiagnosed learning disability like dyslexia or simply criticising the education in the borstals as they are in a regime of hard-labour.Carlin is still of Winstone's most iconic roles, even after his long career. It is one of his best performed roles, cementing early on his hard-man image. Carlin himself is an interesting character because he is someone who uses his new found power to protect the weaker prisoners and advice them when he can, but he is still not above using racist language when taking on one of his rivals.Scum has a strong cast of young actors for its time, with Ford and Julian Firth being particular highlights in their roles, playing two very different characters. Firth is especially memorial because of his emotional performance. Actors like Phil Daniels and Patrick Murray appear in smaller roles and both ended up having successful careers on British Television, appearing in Eastenders and Only Fouls and Horses respectively.Scum is a raw, powerful drama that still has the ability to shock after 35 years since its release. It is a movie deserving of its cult status and is one of Clarke's and Winstone's best pictures.Please visit www.entertainmentfuse.com
The Die Hard is a series with a devoted fan base and seen as a staple of the action genre. It was the series that made Bruce Willis into a star and A Good Day to Die Hard was highly anticipated despite the dubious quality of the men behind the camera. A Good Day to Die Hard is easily the worst film in the series.In Russia a political prisoner, Yuri Komarov (Sebastian Koch) is able to go to trial as a part of a power play by a high-ranking Russian government minister Viktor Chagarin (Sergei Kolesnikov). At the same time Jack McClane (Jai Courtney) assassins a man in a Moscow nightclub, claiming to be hired by Komarov. John McClare (Bruce Willis) goes to Russia to get his disowned son out of prison. But when the courtroom is attacked John is called into action once again, but ends up disrupting a CIA operation and John, Jack and Yuri are left to fend for themselves in Moscow.On the IMDb trivia page it states that A Good Day to Die Hard was the only film in the series where the screenplay was originally designed as a Die Hard film: but it also the film that feels the least like a Die Hard film. The men behind this film are John Moore, a director whose credits are at best mediocre and writer Skip Woods, Fox's hack for hire and cursed the world with X-Men Origins: Wolverine and Hit-man. They lack of talent is on display giving us a half-baked spy-actioneer that just happens to have John McClare in it.A Good Day to Die Hard is a ugly looking film, having some of the worst cinematography I have seen in a mainstream action film. The film has a horrible grey murky look to it that is unappealing to the eye and made worst with shaky cam, zooms and hand-held approach that made it look like John Moore was trying to make the Bourne Supremacy and failing. This was particularly the case with the car chase in downtown Moscow.The spy and political story lines are pap that we have seen before. It is generic as we see a world of political corruption in Russia and leading to a secret sell of weapons grade uranium. It is not a Die Hard plot nor a logical evolution since John McClare is a New York police detective, not a soldier, a spy or a diplomat. He should be handling an American centric adventure.A Good Day to Die Hard also features the worst villain the series, a carrot munching terrorist who became a terrorist after failing as a tap dancer. Despite that silly backstory he is a very bland and unmemorable character: he is far the likes of The Joker and Raoul Silva.Bruce Willis is simply slumming it as John McClare: this is clearly a film where he was taking the money and run. He did not seem to care, he did not have the wit or the wisecracks that makes the character special. Courtney does look the character but he was a really bland, stiff actor who had no character and felt like a poor attempt to replace McClare Sr..One of the big selling points of A Good Day to Die Hard is that it had an R-rated. This film does supply some cool hard scores and a few f-bombs, but for the most part it was pretty standard stuff on screen and it could be easy enough to edit it to be a PG-13.A Good Day to Die Hard is at best a poor action film that would have gone unnoticed if it hadn't had the Die Hard label next to it. It is a film filled with holes, from the characters being able to drive to Chernobyl within a few hours and ignoring that the site is another country, that characters are walking around Chernobyl without radiation suits and John McClare keeps yelling he is on vacation, despite the fact he is in Russia to get his son out of prison.A Good Day to Die Hard is a film of relentless action scenes, thinking that is enough to replace a good story, characters and logic.
John Carpenter is the master of the B-Movie genre, making well-liked films such as Halloween (birth of the slasher film), Big Trouble in Little China and Escape to New York. Assault on Precinct 13 is one of Carpenter's best, and one of my favourites of his.In Los Andres gang-warfare is troubling the streets, and one gang was able to steel some advanced weapons to use for their mayhem. The gang, Street Thunder play revenge on the LAPD and swear a blood oath. On his first day on the job, Lieutenant Ethan Bishop (Austin Stoker), is assigned to run Precinct 9, Division 13 police station, a station about to closed down, and running on a skeleton staff. At the same time Napoleon Wilson (Darwin Joston), a prisoner on his way to death row is transfered, but on the way to a high security prison, a prisoner becomes ill and they have to stop at Bishop's station. In South Central LA, Lawson (Martin West) is searching for the house for his daughter's nanny. When he stops his young daughter buys an ice-cream from a van, and ends up getting shot by a gang member. Lawson quickly seeks revenge, killing one of the gang members. By doing this, he obviously get the gang hunting him, and ends up in the police station. The gang lays siege on the station, and the cops and criminals have to work together to survive.It's a simple premise and plot, and works as a suspenseful horror like film. The siege of an numerous enemy is very similar to George A. Romero's Night of the Living Dead and Dawn of the Dead. It is a short film, and very action packed. It is violence, as excepted, with a shocking scene involving a young girl dying. My DVD is rated 15, but I'm surprised it's not an 18 (and that is rare). The acting a little wooden, but it doesn't matter so much in this type of film. At least John Carpenter tries to bring some character and backstory, especially Napoleon Wilson who works as an anti-hero and a early prototype to Snake Plissken in Escape from New York. Some of the pacing is a little off, especially in the beginning. But Carpenter knows simple ideas, like cops and criminals working together to stop a greater threat, and action and set pieces.
Rocky V ended on a bittersweet note, with the hero of the franchise ending up bankrupt and forced to retire from boxing. He ends up becoming a trainer and manager but gets betrayed by his young boxer Tommy Gunn. Many Rocky fans and Stallone himself didn't like that film. They was also the factor that Stallone's career had been on a downward spiral and there is a trend at the moment were 80s franchises are being reawaken, such as Terminator, Die Hard and Indiana Jones. I personally think Rocky V was a decent film.In this film Rocky is in his late 50s, his wife had died a few years before hand, his relationship with his son is strain because he has to live in the shadow of his famous father. Rocky owns a restaurant in downtown Philadelphia and lives on his past glories. At the same time Mason Dixon, the world heavy-weight champion, is very unpopular and struggling to find an opponent. On ESPN a virtual boxing match was done between Rocky in his prime and Mason, which 'surprise surprise' Rocky wins. There is debate on what would happen if that fight really did happen and Rocky decides to come out of retirement. Mason's management team offer Rocky the chance to fight Mason in a charity expedition fight in Las Vegas. You get the fun of seeing Rocky do his training regime and how a man his age would train and fight a boxing match like him. In the fight itself Rocky surprises everyone by giving the audience a epic 10 round boxing fight.The film's story is far-fetched, but the audience who is going to watch this is going to know this already. It has Rocky back as an underdog and shows him as a sad and lonely man. He ends up forming a bond with lil' Marie from the first movie and takes her son under his wing. The fight scenes themselves were very well done and you see how Rocky would fight it. It was done like you would have seen it on HBO. Stallone also looks very muscular for a man his age.Rocky Baloba is a fitting end to the franchise and a good fun film. Great to hear the theme tune for one last time.
Freaks, an early controversial film from the 1930s and ended up being in a number countries. A film before its time.Set in a travelling circus, Freaks looks at the lives of the side-show freaks, including drawves, a breaded lady, the half-man half-woman and the Human Torso just to name a few. Within the community is Hans and Frieda (Harry and Daisy Earles), two drawves who are engaged. But Hans falls in love with Cleopatra (Olga Baclanova), a trapeze artist who is considered beautiful. Hans believes that Cleopatra is kind to him, but she is just using the man to steal his fortune, makes fun of him behind his back and having an affair with Hercules (Henry Victor), the circus strong man. The community of 'freaks' live by a strong code and set out to protect each other, and aim help Hans who ends up marrying Cleopatra. With the community there are side plots. There is Phroso the Crown (Wallace Ford) and Venus (Leila Hyams), two 'normal' people who befriends the 'freaks'. There is the relationship between the conjoined twins Daisy and Violent and their romances. And the breaded lady has a baby. As well we get to see what the day to day lives of the 'freaks', their strong bond and the discrimination they suffer.The director Tod Browning ending up scoring an own-goal with this people because it was unpopular at the time, a shame. This was a personal film for him because he worked in the circus and had experience working with freak-shows. He aimed to show that 'freaks' were well rounded, developed characters who want to live their lives. They don't want to be laughed at, but they have no choice. They suffer discrimination even within the circus. They have to struggle but still find love and friendship and have a code to protect each other. Freaks is classified as a Horror film, but it's really a character drama and social commentary; who are the real freaks in society? It's only need the end of the film where they is a horror moment, but its better then most modern horror films. Browning casted real circus performances which was a smart move, saw how they lived. Harry and Daisy Earles were engaging as the leading characters (even though their high-pitched voices were a bit difficult to understand at times). Most of them were good actors and did well in there roles. The film is on an hour long, which makes Freaks a tout experience. It's good for a quick watch and it does have a lot of plot, sub-plots and characters to get to know in its short running time.The only real problem of the film is some of the over-acting which was a problem in a lot of films in 30s. The main offenders were Olga Baclanova and Henry Victor.But Freaks is a cult classic worthy of your time.
The Usual Suspects is a modern classic. It is an intelligent, complex film, that was well written, acted and directed. It showed how good an actor Kevin Spacey was and helped Bryan Singer's career which led him to direct the first two X-Men films and Superman Returns. If it was up to me Braveheart wouldn't have won an Oscar and this film should have got Best Film and Best Director. The Usual Suspects treats the audience with some intelligence and makes your brain work, whilst Braveheart see the audience as idiots and tries to get away of with murder when it comes to the fact, plot and characterisation.The Usual Suspects is a crime film, which when done right can produce some of the best films made, such as the Godfather and Goodfellas. This film focuses on a one off crime, a raid on a ship which had gone wrong. Verbal (Kevin Spacey), was arrested by the FBI and he tells them the story about the raid and how the team he worked with was formed. This included attacking a secret taxi secret run by crooked cops in New York. It then turns out that these men have all crossed plans with a major crime lord, Keyser Söze and his representative demanded they repay him by taken part in the raid on the ship in San Pedro. It is after that event start to decline for the gang and the raid fails.The Usual Suspects has a great plot twist at the end and trust me it's gob-smacking. I won't ruining it in case you never seen it.The Usual Suspects is a must see and the academy should look deep down inside themselves and be assume to ignore this film and give Braveheart any recognisance.
Studio Ghibli is regarded as one of the finest animation studios in the world, standing along side Pixar and Aardman. They have made many classic films, like Spirited Away, Howl's Moving Castle and Princess Mononoke and their legendary director, Hayo Miyazaki has moved into the screen writing position, adapting Mary Norton's 'The Borrowers' for first time director Hiromasa Yonebayashi to helm.Sho (Ryunosuke Kamiki) is a sick young boy who moves in with his great aunt for a week before his heart operation. But in the garden he sees a mini-person, Arrietty (Mirai Shida). Arrietty is a 14-year-old borrower, a four inch person who lives with her parents and goes on her borrowing mission with her father: there one major rule is that they must not be seen by humans. But Sho did see Arrietty when he was in bed and despite his offer of friendship, Arrietty's family plan to move before the risk of Sho's household discover them.Like other Studio Ghibli, the animation is glorious. Arrietty was a beautiful looking, the animation was fluid and the film was filled little details, from Arrietty using a plastic peg as a hair clip, the equipment the borrowers use, etc Animation was able to fully realise the scale and depth of our world to creatures as small of the borrowers. Japan shows that traditional animation is a wonderful art form and there should be more traditional animation, not just from Japan but other parts of the world.Arrietty works very well as a family film, filled with peril but it is clean, no swearing and violence. The aim was to provide people with a world of fantasy and wonder. Whilst the film is a strong effort of family film I think the big problem is that there isn't enough interaction between Sho and Arrietty and they should have built up their friendship more before it all go pear shaped. It felt a bit too rushed at the end when they have to work together. Nor did we get to see the villain's motives; it feels more like the film needed an antagonist then she actually wanted the borrowers for a real reason.Arrietty felt very much more like it was trying to cater to Western audiences, even with the Japanese version. The film adapting a popular English story, using English language pop songs in the soundtrack and even translating notes into English instead of using subtitles.The Japanese voice cast were mostly excellent, with the cast giving good performances in their respective roles. But the weak link was Shinobu Ōtake who played Arrietty's mother, giving a more over the top performance and is meant to supply most of the comic relief.Arrietty is not going to challenge to be one of Studio Ghibli's best films, but it is still a solid film that the whole family can enjoy.7.5/10
What does Mel Gibson have against the English? He made the awful Braveheart and he ends up doing this trash which is Braveheart 2 in all but name. What does Hollywood have against the British? It's not like we have been America's biggest ally since the Second World War and in a recently CNN poll 90% of Americans have a favourable opinion of Britain.The Patriot focuses on Benjamin Martin (Mel Gibson), a veteran of the French-Indian war. He lived in South Carolina in 1776 with his 7 children, working on his farm, with his black employees (first problem there). His wife had recently died and he just wants to live a peaceful life raising his family. In the State Assembly Benjamin even votes against joining the revolution. However his 18-year-old son Gabriel (Heath Ledger) decides to join the Contiential Army, but suffers defeat. The film fast forwards 2 years. Gabriel has become a messenger and given important document. Outside the Martin's farm was a skirmish between the Americans and British and Gabriel returns home. After the battle Benjamin cares for both the British and American troops, a British officer even thanks him. However Colonel William Tavington (Jason Issacs) shows up on the scene. He orders the Americans to be killed, burns down Martin's home, takes all the black workers so that they could be forced into the British army and takes Gabriel to be hung as a spy. It was during this that one of Benjamin's other sons, Thomas, gets killed, trying to free Gabriel. Its all these events that drives Benjamin to fight in the war, firstly freeing his son and ends up as the Colenial of the South Carlonia Milita. He fights a guerrilla war and becomes known as the Ghost. This leads to a battle of wits between Benjamin and Tavington/General Cornwallis (Tom Wilkingson). There are subplots, the father-son relationship and Benjamin's need to be a good father. There is Gabriel's love life. The recruitment of troops and the friendship between a slave and a racist.This film is truly terrible. I hate historical inaccuracies in film and like Braveheart, the Patriot takes the Mick. The British never launched a massive terror campaign against civilians, let alone burn down a church full of a whole village. That was based on a Waffen SS attack in France, not 18th century America. During the war civilians were largely unaffected. Most slaves and Native American fought with the British. Native American got better trading deals with the British, whilst for slaves the British promise them freedom, whilst the Americans didn't. Also, for a film set in South Carolina in the end of the 18th Century they was little racism, a lot of tolerance and slaves seem happy with their work. The film erodes the ideas of the American War of Independence. The Americans fought for ideas of democracy and taxation, but this was ignored during the film, forcing on a one man struggle. Americans argued that the war was fought that because of the famous saying, 'no taxation without representation'; despite the fact that most British people didn't have the right to vote and the same for Americans in their state assemblies. The British argued that the Americans should have paid tax because they were in charge of their defend, especially during the French-Indian war. The British weren't evil during this war. The film made out that it was only just middle-class English soldiers, ignoring that there were Scottish and Irish troops in the British army. Also, one of the reason why Americans were angry with the British was because there was a large number of German troops in the British army. Also the main reason why American won independence was from support from France, Spain and the Netherlands, and they fought for their own self-interests against Britain, not because they believed in the American cause.Like Braveheart, the British were made out to be as stupid and as event as possible, not fighting with honour. Tavington is a clear example of evil whilst Cornwallis was rather stupid, getting tricked easily, e.g. the scene of the prisoner exchange and his dogs surprising disloyalty. In real life Cornwallis was a perfectly capable commander of troops and the British army was a small, but professional force. The acting was wooden, Heath Ledger was terrible (which is surprising because of his later good work). Mel Gibson had his moments but he was nothing surprise for most of the film. Jason Issacc was cartoon character (he's better in the Harry Potter films) and Tom Wilkington was the strongest performance. No one stood out, and I find it weird that there was talk that Issacc could have had an Oscar nod for this film. The people of Liverpool were insulted with the character of Tavington insulting. Tavington was based on Banastre Tarleton who was Liverpool's MP for a while and supported Charles James Fox who supported the Americans during the War of Independence. At the same time Benjamin Martin was based on Francis Marion. Francis Marion was a man who enjoyed scaling natives. One scene in the film shows Benjamin giving his young sons rifles, and gets them to attack British soldiers: that's fatherly love for you. It is so bloody stupid a scene.For some reason Roland Emmerich enjoyed using slow motion during the film, especially for the fight scene: it add nothing. The other problem is for some reason set piece one-on-one fights easily happened during the middle of battle: a little unrealistic. The only good aspect of the film is the realistic violence; with an excellent moment with a soldier getting his head torn off by a cannonball. But even here, it surprising how accuracy 18th Century rifles were.The writing in the film is bad, the same level of Randall Wallace. He turned the American War of Independence into a one family struggle.Films like this need to be stopped being made.
This film is a good coming of age story based on a novel John Irving, set from 1943 to 1945. It tells the story of Homer Wells (Tobey Maguire), who leaves the orphanage he grew up and works at an orchard.Homer was the orphan who the orphanage director Dr. Wilbur Larch (Michael Caine) treated as a son and taught him to be a gynaecologist. Wilbur hopes that Homer could take his place and run the orphanage. However Homer feels that he needs to leave the orphanage, and having not seen the world outside it. He befriends a young couple and he falls in love with Candy Kendall (Charlize Theron). He works on the family orchard befriends the seasonal workers. Wilbur thinks that Homer is better then that. At the same time their is a moral issue about abortion. Wilbur performs illegal abortions, thinking that its the right thing to do, but Homer is against it, believing that it isn't moral and a unborn child has a right for life. My personal view is that abortion should be legal because it is dangerous if it was illegal and just force it underground.I will said that this movie is not the greatest story and does sometimes go off the beaten track, but it makes up for it with its acting. Tobey Maguire is especially good, and Michael Caine won an Oscar, doing something he doesn't normally do, an American accent. Delroy Lindo was also good as Mr. Rose, the head worker and Charlize Theron was also decent.
Jason Reitman was always going to have a lot to live up to, having a dad who was a successful director of the Ghostbusters film and a big player in Hollywood. Studios did see potential in him, offering him the chance to direct Dude Where's My Car, but Reitman did not want to be seen living off his father's coattails. His first feature film ended up being a smaller independent dark comedy taking on the lobby industry, American politics and Hollywood.Thank You for Smoking tells the story of Nick Naylor (Aaron Eckhart), the Vice President of the Academy of Tobacco Studies, and their chief spokesman. He has to defend the indefensible, and proves that he can argue superbly against people with more moral argues. But despite his skills and even humiliating anti-smoking campaigners on national television the Tobacco Industry is under constant assault. Senator Finisterre (William H. Macy), a Democrat from Vermont, proposes a bill to put visial warnings on cigarette packets, and challenges the tobacco lobby to face his sub-committee. Nick believes going on the offensive, accept Finisterre's challenge, face the media, lead by a young journalist, Heather Holloway (Katie Holmes) and try and make smoking sexy again by working with a Hollywood superagent, Jeff Megall (Rob Lowe), to produce a movie. Nick's personal life also grown, and he grows closer to young son Joey (Cameron Bright), and he teaches him how to debate effective. The two go on trips together, and Nick argues that all he is doing is enfranchising the disenfranchised. But Nick's world is thrown into jeopardy when his life is threaten, and he has to battle the media. He walks a fine line with his boss BR (J.K. Simmons) and with the finer moral line. Jason Reitman shows himself to be very ambitious writer/director, taking on a wide number targets: the smoking lobby, the general lobby industry in American, the political left and shows that Hollywood isn't as liberal as the Conservative Media would have you believe. Reitman is very stylist director, starting out with an effective title sequence, and continuing throughout with little visial tricks and even stock footage. Reitman keeps the humour going throughout the film, telling a very funny story that would please anyone who enjoys good satire. This is film aimed for a very politically aware audience and anyone who enjoys smart, dark comedy will like this film. But as well as the comedy, Reitman does also offer some heart in his film, with a key element of the film being the father and son relationship between Nick and Joey and how it grows, and more hard-hitting scenes like when Nick meets Lorne Lutch (Sam Elliott), a former tobacco spokesman who developed lung cancer. There is a fine cast in this film. If Christopher Nolan is be believed that this film landed Aaron Eckhart the role of Harvey Dent in the Dark Knight. Eckhart is perfectly slimy as the tobacco lobbyist who could sell sand to the Egyptians. The great J.K. Simmons is almost like J. Jonah Jameson as Nick's boss and he has been a regular player in Reitman's films. Cameron Bright who is more known for playing a creepy kid in Birth and in the poor X-Men: The Last Stand, give his best performance ever in a film. Katie Holmes shows that she can be a good actress and it was fun to see her as a bit of minx. William H. Macy, a darling of independence American cinema, is very effective as the 'villain' who has a very moral cause. Despite the positives, there are a few problems with this film. Firstly is the problem involving Eckhart's character. Nick is so unlikeable throughout the film that it's hard to root for him. He is too slimy and would have been better a supporting character. It was hard to agree with his arguments, like enfranchising the disenfranchised, ignoring the fact many of these industry have multi-billion dollar profits and can buy all the influence there want. This story would have been very interesting if it was told from Senator Finisterre's, battling against the intensive lobbying from the tobacco industry. The film also missed a trick when it could have shown the tobacco industry making political contributions to politicians at many different levels, state politicians, governors, senators, representatives, being corrupted by their evil. As well, whilst it is mostly the Democrats who take on the tobacco industry, and that big tobacco were one of the biggest supporters of George W. Bush (along with other evils like oil, mining, chemicals, the gun lobby and logging); the film could have twisted on the idea showing a right-wing Republican also taking on tobacco: much like Ted Kennedy and Orrin Hatch of Utah.This is a clever satire and worth watching if you are interested in American politics.
Christmas is a great time of the year. The whole family comes together, children are excited, and joy fills the air. What better way to spend the festive season than seeing a family Christmas movie with your loved ones? Now, Aardman Animations has given us a very joyous movie that should be a Christmas classic for years to come.Over the years, because of the world's expanding population, Santa Claus' Christmas Night deliveries has become a high-tech military operation, involving thousands of elves and a giant aircraft. Santa Claus' son, Steve (Hugh Laurie), runs logistics and intelligence in the North Pole and is set to become the next Santa Claus. His younger brother, Arthur (James McAvoy), is a very passionate young man who loves the spirit of Christmas, but is a bit of a klutz. Arthur is kept in the mail room to handle all of Santa's letters.The Christmas delivery seems to be a big success, so much so that Santa Claus (Jim Broadbent) postpones his retirement, much to Steve's annoyance. But the worst thing imaginable has happened, a child has been missed. Steve refuses to delivers one bike because the margin of error was too small, so Arthur and his grandfather (Bill Nighy), who wants to show the old techniques still work, and the dedicated elf Bryony (Ashley Jensen) set out to ensure that one little girl is not the child Santa forgot. But their ambitions result in an adventure around the world as this band of misfits save Christmas for one child.Like Pixar, Aardman believes that story and character have to come first and they make movies for children and adults alike. The movie is funny throughout, with plenty of the verbal jokes that children and adults will enjoy as well as some really well done physical humour and some slapstick. But this is a movie that understands children and what they want. The premise is simple, but the writing is strong and clever throughout the whole film and there are little touches that give Arthur Christmas that Aardman feel, from the pictures of the previous Santas to Steve's Christmas Tree goatee. Christmas is an exciting time for children and Arthur Christmas is just such a good-natured, fun movie that delivers on that spirit.Some elements of Arthur Christmas are similar to Elf, mainly that Arthur is a big kid like Buddy who believes in the magic of Christmas. He is also a guy who does not quite fit in the North Pole and given a job that keeps him out of trouble. The score by Harry Gregson-Williams is very much like the score in Elf, particularly the choir, which sounds identical.This is a cliché, but Arthur Christmas follows the old Hollywood maxim of "you make them laugh, you make them cry." It was filled with colourful, likable characters throughout that you will end up caring for despite their faults and expertly played by a top notch voice cast. I left the cinema with a massive smile on my face.
Alien is a special film, a hybrid of sci-fi, horror and thriller. A film that made Ridley Scott a Hollywood player, made Sigourney Weaver's career and a started a multi-million dollar franchise.Set in the future, a commercial mining spaceship, Nostromo, is on its way back to Earth and the crew is in a state of hibernation. The ship's computer receives a signal for a foreign species and wakes up the crew. Under law the crew have to investigate. After crashing on a planet some of the crew go to explore the site of a crashed ship, with one very dead alien on board. One of the crew members, Kane (John Hurt) has the misfortune to find a number of eggs in ship and gets attacked by a Facehugger. Kane is taken back to Nostromo, and the science officer Ash (Ian Holm) tries to study it. He can't remove the Facehugger because it would strangle Kane, and cutting it off isn't an option because it has acid blood. After Kane seems to be fine, but whilst eating the Chestburster kills him and scares the crew in a classic scene. The crew go on the hunt, facing the ultimate predator. But it's not just the alien that the crew should worry about, with a conspiracy led by their own company/employers and a traitor within their mitts.Alien is considered a classic and I admit it is very good, but it's my second film in the franchise. The point of this film is the suspense, nothing knowing what's going to happen and has some excellent scares and scenes. Ridley Scott directs with subtly and slowly builds up the film, keeping you on the edge of your seat and interested at work's going on the screen. It is eerie and perfectly well done. As a horror film its one of the best ever made. It's an excellent sci-fi, Ridley Scott creates a break, dark world, showing space travel can be hard and unglamourous, almost an anti-Star Wars film. The story is simple and strong, a spaceship crew find an alien. But what makes Alien better is that the alien is just a wild animal who want to kill and eat. It's not an intelligence life-form who wants to conqueror Earth. The characters are developed and the conspiracy adds to the story, having an anti-big business message. Another theme that are looked at by this film are fear of the unknown, the future of space exploration and the fear of male rape and pregnancy (i.e. what happens to John Hurt). The art direction is excellent, with great sets and model work, adding to the dark Star Wars feel to the film. There is great special effects for the time.They is a good cast to the film. Sigourney Weaver is obviously good and must have loved the role seeing she played it for times. There are great English actors, John Hurt and Ian Holm, both always good to see. Tom Skerritt and Yaphet Kotto are also noticeable and worthy of mention.An excellent film for horror and sci-fi fans. A must see. Alien and Aliens are the best in the series and it's best to stop there.
When watching Manhunter I was a little underwhelmed, I was hoping for more. Saying that it is above average and a solid serial killer/cop thriller.Manhunter was based on the book Red Dragon by Thomas Harris, the first film about Hannibal Lector. and led to the films of Silence of the Lambs, Hannibal, Red Dragon (a remake) and Hannibal Rising. This was Michael Mann's baby-steps into theatrical film making after television work, and led he to direct excellent films like The Last of the Mohians, Heat, the Insider and Collectial.The plot of film was Will Graham (William Petersen), an expert profiler, who is called out of retired by the FBI to investigate a serial killer, the Tooth Fairy, who had brutally murdered two families in the Deep South of America. Graham is reluctant at first but he scene of duty makes him get involved with the case. After some early success, the case becomes stuck and the intelligence serial killer Hannibal Leckter (Brain Cox) is enlisted to help. Things take a further twist when the the Tooth Fairy starts to communicate with Leckter and the FBI investigation becomes a race against time because the Tooth Fairy kills his victims on the full moon.The acting is top-notch. I thought William Petersen was better suited to the role of Will Graham then Ed Norton was. Brain Cox was chilling as Hannibal and did do well in the role, and overall I think Cox is a better actor then Anthony Hopkins. Other good actors were involved in this film, such as Joan Allen, Tom Noonan and Dennis Farina. The tone of the film was more understated then the other entries in the series, and realistic in performances. You get to see the psychological battle within Graham, but I thought the dream scene wasn't needed. Michael Mann also shows that he is a good set-piece director, to gun battle, to the attempted police set-up and the torture scene of a reporter. Some other aspects I like was you didn't get to see the Tooth Fairy until the middle of the film and you done get to see what drives him or even much about him. Compared to Red Dragon their is a scene when you hear the Tooth Fairy getting psychologically tortured by his guardian when he is doing weight and that felt clichéd. Also in Manhunter, it attempts to humanize the villain and show he was intelligence; like a serial killer in real life you most possibly wouldn't know of what he gets up to. However, watching the film, it felt a little heartless and therefore you lose some of the feelings of engagement with the characters and the events. Also, the soundtrack was awful.Grade: B-
There is nothing like a good Martial-Arts movie, there are so easy is find entertaining. Enter the Dragon is one of the best of them all and Bruce Lee is greatest.Bruce Lee plays Lee, a member of the Shaolin order in Hong Kong. He is recruited by a British member of Interpol, Braithwaite (Geoffrey Weeks) to take part in a tournament hosted by the crime lord, Han (Kien Shih). Braithwaite explains that Han recruits girls, gets them hooked on drugs and sell them on in the sex trade. Interpol lacks the evidence and want Lee to get it for them during the tournament. Lee also has personal motives to fight in the tournament. Firstly Han was a member of the Shaolin order and had disgraced them, using their teaching for his own motives. Second was Han's bodyguard (Robert Wall) was responsible for Lee's sister's death. Also involved in the tournament were Roper (John Saxon) and Williams (John Kelly). Both had their own reasons to fight in tournament. Roper was running from his debts and earn his money, whilst Williams was running from racism and the police in America.Enter the Dragon is the first martial-arts film that was produced by Hollywood and this film combines the best elements of Hollywood and Hong Kong cinema. Bruce Lee was the man responsible for making the Hong Kong film industry the way it is now.The first and foremost important thing in a martial-arts film is the action, and my, it's very good. There are brilliant fight-scene as you would expect from the master known as Bruce Lee. There are iconic scene in the hall of mirrors, to one-on-one fights, to Bruce Lee's skill with weapons. I personally really like John Kelly's style of fighting in this. Bruce Lee set out to make a film with heart and he brought in his philosophies of martial-arts in this film, particularly about the idea to overcome style and was against uniformity. This made Enter the Dragon a cut above the rest.Enter the Dragon is an essential film from the 70s and the Martial-Arts genre. It's a shame that Bruce Lee died because he would have done more. If you get the 2-disc Enter the Dragon DVD you would also get some excellent footage and fight scenes from Game of Death as it should have been.
If anyone isn't in the know, I am not Mel Gibson's biggest fan. Mad Max was a low-budget Australian action film, done to a high standard. It's is a dyspotic future film set in rural Australia where the police combat to keep law and order.The film starts with a ten minute car chase scene where a biker gang member who just escaped from the police. Max Rockatansky (Mel Gibson) is the police's best driver and in the chase the biker is killed. The biker gang seek revenge for their fallen comrade and take it on Max's home town, including attacking a couple and properly raping the woman. After no case could be brought against the gang they kill Max's best friend Goose (Steve Bisley). After that Max quits the force, but the bikers still pursuit him and his family, forcing Max to take action.A friend of my commented that Mad Max was similar to A Clockwork Orange and it is true to a point, but it isn't as good (but to be fair few films are as good as A Clockwork Orange). Throughout the film you get a sense of delay that was plaguing the land, and shortages of things such as fuel and spare car parts. The acting is decent, Mel Gibson offering the best performance, and its fun to hear him speak in an Australian accent. George Miller direction was good; he was able to handle big action set pieces and balance it out with a political and social commentary and human emotion. He was also the co-wrote the film. As I said for a low budget film it handled the action in a very professional manner. It is high-concept film making at it finest. They is also a scene which reminded me a lot of scene in the Watchmen graphic novel, and you see by the end that Max turns from a happy family man to a vengeful figure.If I had to be critical, they were some camp factors I didn't like, mainly the leather police uniform which made everyone out to be a member of the village people, and the brightly coloured police cars.If you like dyspotic future film (like I do) or are a petrol head or action junkie, then you will like Mad Max.Grade: B+
From the back of three Pirates of the Caribbean films, Gore Verbinski and Johnny Depp reunited to work together, working on Verbinski's first animated film, a film which won an Academy Award for Best Animated Film.An unnamed and lonely pet chameleon with a lot of acting (Depp) ends up strained in the middle of the desert after a car accident. Desperate for water the chameleon ends up in a western town called Dirt which in the middle of a water crisis and in the local saloon comes up with a new identity as the gunslinger Rango. After Rango accidentally kills a hawk he is celebrated as a hero and becomes the main of the town and is quickly put on the case to find out what is happening to the town's water.Rango is a wonderfully animated film, with a great amount of detail and was able to get a balance between realism and cartoonary, Rango being the most cartoonary looking creature. Because of the animation Verbinski is able to give the film an move the camera to unique places, do incredible shots and make some good action sequences, the scene with the bandits on bats whilst Ride of the Valkryie was an incredible action scene.There is a great voice cast, Depp was unrecognisable as the lead character, someone who suffers an existential crisis, trying to come up with an identity for himself in the world. He was obviously have a lot of fun in the role and Verbinski inhabits the cast with a lot of people Depp could work. Isla Fisher is a strong as the love interest and strong western world woman, who has a fun running gag that she freezes up as defence mechanism, but she does turn into a dismal in distress. Abigail Breslin too has good comic timing as a child character with a dark scene of humour. There are great supporting acting like Ned Beatty, Alfred Molina, Bill Nighy, Ray Winstone and Timothy Olyphant, who are solid through and provide some more serious characters in the film.But is most weird about the film is humour which is dark and morbid. There are some moments that are just out of place, like in the beginning with Road Kill (Molina) who is pretty much sliced in half, a bit dark for a family film and most of the jokes have a dark/adult tone. They are jokes geared to adults like Thespian one but then there are some toilet and fart jokes which felt out of place. There is a chorus of owl who did provide a lot of humour, but there was one fourth wall joke I did like when Rango gets them play for a montage, with one of them even playing an electric guitar: its hardly a deal breaker but it annoyed me. There were moments I laughed heavily like when Rango gave his gun to a child and when Rango punches a woman, and other moments I did smile at.Rango is entertaining and enjoying with some great animation and action. But I personally thought Kung Fu Panda 2 was a better animated 2011 film for the whole family.3.5/5.
There are many great actor-director combos, Scorsese and De Niro, Scorsese and Di Caprio, Greengrass and Damon, Wright and Penn, etc Adam McKay and Will Ferrell careers have been interlinked since Saturday Night Live. Under McKay's direction Ferrell has lived out a number of childhood fantasy, such as journalist, NASCAR driver and now a police officer.Detectives Danson (Dwayne Johnson) and High smith (Samuel L. Jackson) are hero cops in New York who cause a massive amount of property damage along the way. Allen Gamble (Ferrell) and Terry Hoitz (Mark Wahlberg) are officers who are forced to do there paperwork. Gamble enjoys the paperwork, but Hoitz longs to be in the heart of the action and in disgrace after shooting Derek Jeter in the knee. But when the hero cops die, the NYPD needs a replacement partnership and Gamble may have found the case involving investment banker Sir David Ershon (Steve Coogan).McKay and Ferrell both know that there films are not going to be awarding films but they know how to deliver a laugh. With The Other Guys they set out to parody (with love) buddy comedies, like Lethal Weapon, looking into the supporting cops of the officers who cause all the damage. There are some really funny moments and jokes, but this was when the film was more risqué and edgy involving sex (particularly involving homeless people), race and playing against police conventions, like when Ferrell talks a bloke into killing himself. But these moments are not frequent enough. McKay plays the humour too safely, what he should have done was been more edgy jokes, more willing to use language, violence, sex and race. The film should have gone for a 15/R rating, instead of playing it safe with the 12A/PG-13 rating.The action was decent, better then in some films, but of course McKay is a comedy director. The opening chase was deliciously over the top and a homage to the Lethal Weapon series. It was both funny and exciting. Other action sequence were well handled.If you are not a fan of Will Ferrell's over-the-top stupidity and physical performance then it is best that you avoid the film: but if you like it you will be happy. There are good moments of more understated humour like when he mentions how the Securities Exchange Commissions has failed with previous financial investigations. Walhberg's performance was strong as the straight, reacting to Ferrell's playing it by the book personality who avoids risks: he does humour with his anger and a moment I enjoy was when he threw Allen's gift out a car window. Being British is it enforced by death that you have to like Steve Coogan, and he was enjoyable, as well as supporting cast members like Eva Mendas. But Ferrell does play on what must be his personal fantasy, that hot women just fall in love with him.Also at times the film does divert into sub-plots and leads that go nowhere, none has enough of a comic payoff. The film was too long and should have been around 1 hour 40 minutes, a good length for a comedy.Jackson and Johnson were both very fun as the over-the-top, action packed cops and they deserve a spin-off.A decent effort, but try harder for next time. Hopefully the DVD will be more adult.
The Sixth Sense was the film that sky-rocketed M. Night Shyamalan's career and well, he hasn't been able to escape it since. Before hand he had made 2 films; Praying with Anger which it was rumoured that Shyamalan tried to suppress it's existence like Stanley Kubrick did with Fear and Desire; and Wide Awake, a family comedy that was a commercial flop. He also helped write Stuart Little before his big break came with The Sixth Sense, at the young age of 29.Dr. Malcolm Crowe (Bruce Willis) is a successful and rewarded child psychologist, but suffers guilt about a former patient Vincent Grey (Donnie Wahlberg) who breaks into his house. The next year Crowe wants to do right when he works with a 9-year-old boy Cole Sear (Haley Joel Osment) who suffers from the same symptoms. Both have major problems, Crowe is distance to his wife Anna (Olivia Williams) whilst Cole's mother Lynn (Toni Collette) does not know how to deal with her son who is anxious, isolated and considered a freak by other school children. But Cole's biggest problem is that he can see ghost who have suffer some of the most horrific injuries and harm the small boy, making him life of fear. Both psychologist and patient needs to face up to their demons.Shyamalan show he was once a writer/director of great skill and both a great supernatural thriller and a horror film. Shyamalan makes a dark tone and lit film with brilliant camera work: Shyamalan loves using single take shots with the camera either following people or moving around the room to give the film an unbroken, organic feel. It's a skill other great like Stanley Kubrick, Martin Scorsese, Darren Aronofsky and Alfonso Cuaron, so it is of course good enough Shyamalan. Shyamalan also blends together the supernatural element of ghosts with how people from the real world would deal with it, from a scared young boy and how to it damages his psychology, to school children who see him as a freak, to a psychologist who does not believe him. There are also real world issues involving crumbling marriages, bullying and a mother-son relationship. Shyamalan also delivers on effective on horror, from the psychological fear from a character we can care about to subtle scares involving ghosts running in the background. With Shyamalan's camera work and tone The Sixth Sense is better then most horror films.There is a great cast and they work with a terrific script. There are characters you can sink your teeth into. Willis shows he is more then an action star but also a serious actor and gave a good performance. Osment showed that at the time he was one of the best child actors around for his time. He gave a sincere, believable performance as a scared child and was deserving of an Oscar nod. But he was a weird kid. The actresses of the film were also good, both being very real in their performances.The Sixth Sense has an excellent, well thought out script with great ideas about people, family and the dark afterlife. This is clearly Shyamalan's best film and his career has been going downfall ever since. Unbreakable and Signs are still good films but he hasn't made a good film since.
The cartoon series of many young men childhood finally made it to the big screen and my God was it entertaining. Transformers has a simple premise, two giant robot factions, the Auto bots and the Deceptions who were in the middle of a Civil War on their own planet and after it ends up being destroyed, continue their fight on Earth. The television series was really a marketing top to sell the toys, but to children we didn't care and it continued to other franchises like GI Joe, He-Man and Pokemon.The plot of the film focuses on Sam Witwicky (Shia LaBeouf), a teenage American student who happens to be selling some of his great grandfather's stuff on the eBay. He just brought his first car, a 1976 Chevrolet Camaro. But just happens to be to have brought a transformer. On the other side of the world the Deceptions start their war against humanity, attacking an American base in Qatar to access American military information. Their discover that Sam Witwicky's eBay may be of value to him, and the young man is thrown in the middle of the war, with Autobots coming to Earth to protect and Sam, and find the AllSpark that could bring life back to their home planet. At the same time is a sub-plot with Sam and his love interest Mikaela Barnes (Megan Fox). Sam is the school geek, whilst Mikaela the hotty that everyone wants to be with, but has a macho side to her. As the film progresses their friendship grows.Now that plot is paper thin, there is not hiding the fact. But the Cartoon was never that deep on plot anyway. The target audience for the film was always going to be teenage boys and young men, all they wanted to see was robots beating the hell out of each other and seeing Megan Fox doing some poll-dancing would have been a bonus. The film was too long, and should have cut at least 20 minutes. It takes too long to see the Autobots. The action is excellent. Michael Bay is a expert on bombastic action. He was a sound choice and combine military action, and giant robots and CGI to great effect. This was also the biggest film the American military got involved with since Black Hawk Down, which was good for the military, but made Transformers a jingoistic film. It was also a irony in the cartoon that the Deceptions happen to be military vechiles, whilst the Autobots were mostly sports cars. I do wonder what the film would have been like if someone like Spielberg, J.J. Abrams or Zack Synder directed, but Transformers is Bay best film so far. As well as action, there is comedy, some hit, some miss, but it has a good in-joke to one of Bay's previous film.The acting is standard. LeBeouf and Megan Fox have done alright for themselves after their work on television. Who really wins out is Peter Cullen who reprises his role as Optimus Prime. You got to love his voice and their is nothing more awe inspiring then seeing Optimus first scene.Other issues with the film is that there are too many characters, both human and Tranformers, which makes you lack caring for some of them or wondering where some people have come from. Some characters should have been cut or reduced, especially the Peneagon staff. Also their is too much product placement, the film was a giant ad for eBay and the car companies. It's ruins the film and should have been done in a more subtle manner. Also it ruined some Transformers like Jazz who was a Porsche in the cartoon, but a Pontiac Solstice in the film.But with all the issues aside, Transformers is a fun action blockbuster, and it sequel looks promising. Let's hope it's as good or even better.
Battle: Los Angeles is basically what you get when you combine the worst elements of Paul Greengrass and Michael Bay's direction, a rather weak sci-fi film using shaky cam and being military porn.Staff Sergeant Michael Nantz (Aaron Eckhart) is a veteran marine with big demons after loosing his squad in Iraq. He plans to retire from the military when mentors clash into Earth. But these mentor turn out to aliens and cause destruction in many of the world's major cities. Nantz and his platoon is assign the mission to rescue civilians from a LAPD station and get them back to a Forward Operating Base (F.O.B) in three before the Air Force bombs the hell out of the area.Battle: Los Angeles a lot of elements from much better films, Aliens, the Terminator films, Transformers, Dawn of the Dead, Greengrass' action films and countless war films. I could list have they copy these films, the film is focusing on a small platoon who are lead by a experienced Sergeant and a inexperienced Lieutenant, facing an unknown enemy and protecting children. The aliens are mechanical in design and almost like the Terminators and Transformers, they resist bullets very easily and score for Battle: Los Angeles borrows a lot from those films. The scientist on the news is very much like the scientist in Dawn of the Dead, but could also play like the scene in The Happening. The team make up is also like the team in Generation Kill, including having a foreign guy but with much less character depth.The camera work suggests director Jonathan Liebesman has watching too much Paul Greengrass, having tight close ups through out but he seems to not know where to focus and the camera-work and cinematography is terrible. The action is poorly handled, Liebesman just made one long, badly shot battle scene for most of the film. There is not real spark to the whole, the designs of the aliens was generic and the some of the spaceships were trying to copy the ship in District 9.It is a decent idea to make an alien invasion film that focuses on the frontline forces but Liebesman simply made a mediocre war film filled with clichés. It would not be so bad if the characters were interesting but they are just cardboard cutout that we not interested in. As started the relationship between the Lieutenant and Sergeant is like in Aliens but there is no real characterisation behind them. The only people who are even recognisable are Aaron Eckhart, Roman Rodriguez and Michelle Rodriguez (and that's because she is a well known actress). Most of the cast you are just waiting to be picked off and that's mainly because Liebseman is horror director. How he ended up being linked to Superman: Man of Steel is remarkable. At the beginning Liebseman even has to put the characters' name and rank on the screen because the audience is certainly not going to remember them. And the dialogue is very stiff and stilled at the beginning and throughout the rest of the film is typical American military speak.There is also a particular shot at the end when the Marines stand in the sunset and it looks like a shot from a Michael Bay film. Plus the colour pallet looks very much like The Hurt Locker. This is essentially an attempt of a recruitment tool to show how great the Marines are, compared to something like Generation Kill where a number of them are dicks.I can't blame Eckhart doing this film, he is a good actor but he has not had the charge to be a leading man in a blockbuster. He was very good in The Dark Knight and a film like Battle: Los Angeles pays the bills. But I personally do think he was too old to play a Staff Sergeant and I personally picture him more as a mid ranking officer leading a lot of soldiers on the front.
Between the making of The Usual Suspects and X-Men Bryan Singer made a small psychological thriller based on the Stephen King novella Apt Pupil. This was a story with a interesting premise but an uneven execution.In California town in 1984 Todd Bowden (Brad Renfro) is a straight A-Level student and at the age of 16 he is already a High School student. When studying the Holocaust he discovers one of his neighbours, Arthur Denker (Ian McKellen) is actually a SS death camp commander and a wanted war criminal. Instead of telling the police Todd blackmails Denker to tell him stories about the Holocaust. Both character slowly end up playing mind games and powerplays with each other and awakening their darks demons within them.The basic idea had a lot of a potential and there were many different directions it could have gone. It could have been the boy finds out about the war criminal and the turns into an examination of the nature of guilt and evil, explore who is really the evil one in the relationship, a look a modern Nazism. The other way it could have gone is the boy could found the secret and does not know where to turn or finds its out the secret after befriending the man.The direction Apt Pupil starred off well enough as it better of wits between Todd and Denker but it slowly turns into more of a horror movie as both characters start to display the behaviour of emerging serial killers. It felt like this was a film wanting to be a thriller and horror more the being a more in depth study which it should have been and what Singer is more than capable of. It was the screenplay that lets the film down with forced moments (i.e. how Denker was discovered by the authorities) to some unrealistic character development.Renfro was a very stiff actor in the lead role and was a truly unlikeable character to lead the film. There was no real charm to him nor the charisma that a character like that needed to make you to make you care about what happened to him. But we were luckily were compensated with an excellent and dark performance from McKellen, playing a character who wants a quiet life and forced to relive his memories and by doing this his old dark and sadistic side.Singer is of course a talented director and he does bring some moments of visual flair involving dreams. There are some creepy looking scenes and the one where Todd was in the shower, the camera pans and changes filter was very well. The pacing is right throughout, Singer and his editor new when to speed up or slow down when needed and the scenes between Todd and Denker were filled with tension. A knife could have cut it as the two men tried to best the other one.There are themes about obsession, violence and the dark nature of humanity. A particular idea that was well done was how people can dream and be interest of violence and the darker elements of life but very different when actually confronted with it.Apt Pupil is the weakest film from Singer's filmography I have seen but it still a well made and compelling film. What lets it down is the weak script that was provided and it was really just a small film for Singer to keep himself busy before he got the X-Men gig (which I am thankful for).
When Ben Affleck was a rising star back in the late nineties he had earned respected for staring in films like Good Will Hunting, Shakespeare in Love and Dogma, and big bucks from blockbusters such as Armageddon. But his career went downhill when he starred in critical flops like Pearl Harbor, Daredevil and worst of all Gigli, with his then fiancé Jennifer Lopez. But he has had a hell of a comeback, directing the crime thriller Gone Baby Gone and having a supporting role in State of Play. His comeback is now complete with The Town and shows that Affleck is an excellent director in the making.Set in Boston, the area of Charlestown is an area famous for being the bank robbery capital of the world and producing more bank robberies then anyways. Doug MacRay (Affleck) runs a gang of bank robbers, including his hot headed friend James 'Jem' Coughlin (Jeremy Renner), getaway driver Albert 'Gloansy' Magloan (Slaine) and youngster Desmond 'Dez' Elden (Owen Burke). After robbing a bank in Cambridge the gang kidnap bank manager Claire Keesey (Rebecca Hall) as a hostage. With the FBI involved Doug sets out to silence the woman and ends falling for the woman. FBI agent Adam Frawley (Jon Hamm) is on the hunt, the gang continue with their operations, being lead by Irish crime lord the Floirist (Pete Postlehewaite).With a great cast Affleck directs an effective film. The Town is best film I have seen Affleck perform and he is convicting in his role as a gangster with at least some morals. Hall was excellent as a woman overcoming post-traumatic stress disorder and falls for Doug as rebound reaction. Renner continues to raise with another fine performance as a man with anger issues and a near sociopath and Hamm's role was very similar Al Pacino's in Heat. Postlehewaite also gave a very good Irish accent and a sinister performance. Hopefully there are some award nods for Hall and some of the supporting actors.The script written by Affleck, Peter Craig and Aaron Stockard was a well crafted, plotted affair with well rounded characters all round. Affleck's direction was well paced and allowing for well crafted action and crime scenes and a moments of character development and emotional depth. There is a gritty style but does not linger on violence or being stereotypical. Affleck does seem to be influenced by Martin Scorsese, Clint Eastwood, Ron Howard, Michael Mann and similar directors: he is serious for the most part and does not sugarcoat things. With excellent cinematography and editing Affleck directs some excellent action sequences in a realistic manner and shows that action does not need a $100 Million budget. There are no elements that drag the film out and the crime scenes were done with effect and pace. They were believable and well thought-out. There is a excellent opening bank robbery sequence with the team in Halloween masks, which was clearly influenced by The Dark Knight. Affleck also has a dark sense of humour to help little the film occasionally. But Affleck does seem to like his helicopter and skyline a bit to much: yet as a criticism it is a minor one.This is a film with a heart and a brain.Affleck seems to be on the road to being the next Clint Eastwood.
Since John Lassister has takes control of Disney's Animation Division the studio has been has had a string of hits with Tangled, Frozen and their one of their best films in recent years (as well as animated film) Wreck-It Ralph.Wreck-It Ralph (John C. Reilly) has been the bad guy of the Fix-It Felix games for over 30 years. He is disliked and disrespected by all the characters in the game, ignored by them during their 30th Anniversary and lives in a dumb. He seeks more from his life and wants to be a hero, so jumps out his game to seek a medal. But his actions could result to dire consequence for his game and Game Central Station as whole.Wreck-It Ralph is a delightful animated film for children and the children inside all of us. It has all you would want in a Disney film, comedy, drama, action and most importantly heart-felt moments. As you except the animation is excellent, whether it's in the world of Fix- It Felix, the brightly coloured Sugar Rush and the dark alien world which parodies of Halo and Aliens. Disney find a great voice cast for the film. Reilly is a great actor who was had great comic timing with excellent lines he is given and Sarah Silverman plays to her strengths as the hyper-active, annoying Vanellope von Schweetz. Alan Tudyk was strong as the villain, King Candy, a cross between the Mad Hatter, Humpy Dumpy and Willy Wonka and was similar to Lots-O-Huggin' Bear in Toy Story 3. The animators even thrown in a fun reference to the Wizard of Oz.The script by Phil Johnston and Jennifer Lee (who went on to make Frozen) is top notch. It follows typical formula that a character thinks he needs a medal to prove he is a hero when it's his actions that count, that both Ralph and Vanellope are both outsiders in their games and that they want to prove themselves, longing for more. But it does the formula well and it tires all its story lines effectively. The characters are well rounded, there is plenty of and pacing was perfect, showing Disney is on top form.Gamers will also get plenty references and Easter Eggs and many classics game gamers make an appearance in some form. Gamers young and old will enjoy this film.
The eruption of Mount Vesuvius in 79 AD is one of the most famous natural disasters in history and synonymous with Roman history. But in the hands of director Paul W. S. Anderson and writers Janet Scott Batchler, Lee Batchler and Michael Robert Johnson this event is turned into a clichéd historical epic.In 62 AD a young boy (Dylan Schombing) witnesses his parents and whole tribe murdered by the hands of Roman commander Corvus (Kiefer Sutherland) and his troops and the boy is sold into slavery. 17 Years later the boy grows into a gladiator known as The Celt (Kit Harrington) and because of his growing reputation in Britannia he is sold to fight in the big leagues in Italy. In Pompeii The Celt meets a wealthy woman, Cassia (Emily Browning) and both instantly fall for each other. Corvus, now a Senator visits Pompeii, seeking business and a wife as the volcano starts to cause earthquakes, foreshadowing the doom that is set to inflict the city.Pompeii is a clichéd ridden film, works as a poor historical film, romance and disaster flick in one go. Pompeii lifts many ideas and story elements from Ridley Scott's Gladiator as well as other films. The backstory of The Celt is the same as Conan from the 1982 version of Conan the Barbarian with a little sprinkling of William Wallace's childhood in Braveheart. Pompeii clearly lifts from the classic epics Spartacus and Ben-Hur. There are scenes that taken from Gladiator such as when the gladiators have to fight in a recreation of a battle and the Spartacus' spear throwing scene.The screenplay is predictable, plot points can be seen from a mile off. Anyone who has seen any films of a similar ilk know the different story elements, the star-crossed lovers, the female lead being betrothal to the antagonist, the slaughter of a family in front of the protagonist and their revenge storyline. Subplots are predictable like the initial animosity between The Celt and an older gladiator (Adewale Akinnoye-Agbaje) which evolves into grudging respect and then friendship. Even the use of The Celt is taken from Gladiator as Maxius Decimus Meridius was dubbed The Spaniard.Pompeii is very contrived as many characters are connected to each other, servicing the plot then thinking about any organic storytelling. A real suspension of debrief is required to buy the connections between characters and there are many juicy moments of bad dialogue as Cassia ogles The Celt and a cringeworthy moment when an older woman wants to examine the African gladiator and his 'weaponry'.Anderson is in PG-13/12A mode so the action is neutered, over edited and shot so closely that it was hard to tell what is happening as the fights took place. There was little joy to have from the gladiatorial contests. Even the 3D effects are disappointing from Anderson with the effects only coming into full force after Vesuvius erupts.Pompeii is Harrington first leading man film since finding fame in Game of Thrones and he is playing a Jon Snow-esque character, a stoic type who is skilled with a sword. Most of the cast do not come off well, with Sutherland's performance being entertainingly bad, playing a pantomime villain and gives one of worst attempts at an English accent you will hear in a long time. This is made even weirder when Carrie-Anne Moss keeps her natural North American accent.It is easy to criticise most of Pompeii yet Clinton Shorter does supply an excellent music score, using plenty of a percussion instruments and choir singing, giving Pompeii a more epic feel and the music is much better then the film deserves.Pompeii is a dull affair, bringing nothing new to the sword and scandals genre. Gladiator, Spartacus and the romantic-disaster film Titanic have little to worry about.Please visit www.rocknreelreviews.com
It is not hard to find shook stories in the British media about youth violence, youth crime and the hoodie menace; particularly in the estates of London and there is some truth about gang culture and sink estates. Harry Brown is a film that takes on this subject in what was dubbed the British Gran Torino.Harry Brown (Michael Caine) is a retired Royal Marine living alone on a South London sink estate cursed with youth violence. Gangs run the streets, attacking people, robbing vehicles, shooting guns, taking drugs and making live Hell for the residents. His oldest friend Leonard (David Bradley) can not take it any more and since he had no support from the police he goes to confront the gang and ends up gets killed for his troubles. Harry decides to go on a mission of revenge, getting firearms and torturing and killing way to the truth and taking on both a local gang leader, Noel (Ben Drew/Plan B) and drug runners. And two CID officers, DI Alice Frampton (Emily Mortimer) and DS Terry Hicock (Charlie Creed Miles) investigate both the case involving both Leonard's murder and the crimes Harry has committed.Harry Brown was Daniel Barber's feature debut and he shows that he is a very skilled director. He was able make a very compelling, fast paced revenge thriller in a gritty urban setting. The violence felt real, with shooting being very bloody. Barber did not hold back showing the horrors of this kind of world, with innocent people being randomly attacked, including shooting a woman pushing a pram (though I would have thought the police would put a lot of man power into that investigate). The gang is shown to willing to act sexually to work, such as grabbing a woman and pushing their hips towards hers. There are chilling moments, like when Noel is with a young girl and tightens her scarf around her neck. Barber uses mobile phone cameras and camcorders for short periods to give an added scene of realism and show what the gangs would have seen. The police raid and riot was also really well make, quickly smashing into flats and the whole of the youth of the estate throwing anything they could at the police.Harry Brown is meant to be Michael Caine's last starring role in a film and it was an incredible performance. He was able to show his range and determination in a film about a man who had lost everything and wants to set everything right. Considering the story is pretty standard, Caine and Barber did an incredible job. Emily Mortimer is one of those actresses who does give her all in a film and she was interesting as a committed, but kind officer who does care about people: though some hints about her past would have added a little depth. Ben Drew shows a lot of promise as an actor being a sinister little thug and he was truly unlikeable person, with a mum who would defence him to hilted. Bradley was able very believable as a man who had suffered for a long time and it really did look like he was a long time friend of Harry.Whilst overall the film is excellent, some elements of the plot reminded me the Tom Clancy novel Without Remorse, about an ex-military guy getting revenge against a gang to gain revenge. It follows a similar route, of a man killing and torturing way to the true and being as ruthless as possible. This is a film that does a have a right wing tone how the police has failed, that people can take justice into their own hands and that the majority of kids living on an estate are violence drug dealers who have fun tormenting people. I do believe it is true that the police can be hopeless dealing with unsocial behaviour, thinking it is not worth their time or say they can not do anything, say for a lack of evidence: there are a number of shock stories in the media about that, so Harry Brown does have a valid point there. But this a film that takes all the hoodie stereotypes and pushes them to their extremes: I would have thought the police would have taken action because of the violence. Also Harry Brown certainly wanted to make a effort sure the bad guys were as unlikeable as possible, like a leading drug running forcing a hoodie to perform oral sex.Overall I personally think Harry Brown is a better film then Gran Torino because Harry took a more proactive route and he nothing to loose. He was a character more willing to use violence and did not have to take on an issue like racism.
Election is an intelligence black comedy set in a high school in Omaha, Nebraska. It is a set during the election for the student presidency, with only one candidate Tracy Flick (Reese Witherspoon). Tracy is an over-achiever who is ruthless in approach, crush anyone who gets in her well. However, the history teacher running the election, Jim McAllister (Matthew Broderick) does not want to her to run away with it because of her tendency of destroying people, including McAllister's friend who was sacked. McAllister brings in a ringer, Paul Metzler (Chris Klein), a nice but dim jock who had recently broke his leg and one of the most popular students at the school. As well, a third party candidate, Tammy (Jessica Campbell), Paul's sister. She wanted revenge because her girlfriend broke Tammy's heart and started going out with Paul. Tammy becomes the popular candidates because of her anti-student government ticket. This upsets the school and throughout the campaign dirty tricks breakout. A sub-plot of the film is Mr. McAllister is unhappily married, resulting with him watching porn and fantasising being with other women. He becomes attracted to his wife's best film Judith. Slowly his life in Nebraska falls apart.The director Alexander Payne, musts have had fun making this film, and it oozed stylist tricks which added to the visual effect of the film. The film also uses a voice over for all the characters which gives you an incite to all the character's thoughts, similar to the comedy show Peep Show. They are also a number of subplots which gives all the characters a chance to develop. It is a sharply written film, with good dialogue and has a interesting look at American High School. It is dark, looking at some dodgy subject matters and doesn't pull any punches. It's humour is subtle, and has a good at relationships, suburbia, high school and the American education system and American politics.A worthy film.
When Peter Jackson started out as a director he started out in the horror-comedy genre with films like Bad Taste and Braindead. Now another New Zealander director is copying that formula, Johnathan King with his debut feature Black Sheep and even uses Weta Workshop (the special effects company that Jackson used for Lord of the Rings).City boy Henry Oldfield (Nathan Meister) returns to his family farm to sell his share to his brother Angus (Peter Feeney). Angus plans to introduce a new genetically engineered sheep to the world, but environmental activities Grant (Oliver Driver) and Experience (Danielle Mason) steal some evidence of the experiment and accidentally make all the sheep on the farm into fresh eating monsters (a little like 28 Days Later). It is up to Henry, Experience and farm manager Tucker (Tammy Davis) to fight for survival and prevent the virus being released in the rest of New Zealand. All this has to be done whilst Henry has to over come his fear of sheep.There are some positives in the film. It is obvious what King was trying to do, find the least scary animal you can think of and turn them into a monster, for comic effect. As a horror film it is pretty standard, but plenty of fun gory moments, with lots of blood and organs around. There are also some decent jokes and visual gags to keep people entertained, like involving the environmental activities and models that Weta made were excellent. A scene involving a transformation was very effectively done. King also keeps the film going at a fast pace and knew that Black Sheep was a silly little film.But there are big problems with Black Sheep. The first is the acting which is uniformly weak. Of course for this type of film never has Oscar winning performing, but most of the actors were wooden or just not professional actors. Mason had a nice, natural pretty look compared to use Hollywood supermodel look and she does has the occasional decent line, but even she was lacking in natural talent. Davis had a very difficult to understand accent. Some of the jokes were very miss, mostly from cruder jokes like with the sheep flatulence. Black Sheep should have played more on horror films and conventions and used the violence more for comic effect. The film needed many more jokes and a little more gore to make it a real horror-comedy. This is certainly not Shaun of the Dead.
In the 1970s America was in the myers, suffering from economic problems, Watergate, the Vietnam War and the subsequence protect movement. In 1972 a little novel called First Blood was written which set out to be an anti-war novel and its affects on people. 10 years later this novel was made into a successful film, commerically and critically, starting Sylvester Stallone.John Rambo (Sylvester Stallone), is Vietnam vet, a green beret. He discovers that he is the last of his unit and has become a drifter. Whilst walking he goes to a town called Hope in Washington State. The redneck sheriff Will (Brian Dennehy) warns him to stay away and drives him through the town. Rambo is pushed and ends up getting arrested. Whilst in police custody Rambo suffers from police brutality and flashbacks of being tortured by the Vietnamese. He snaps, attacks the officers, and makes a run for it in the forest. There his guerrilla warfare training kicks in, and easily fires of the local police and national guard. He starts a one man war against the sheriff as he trauma is brought back.First Blood kicked off the very successful Rambo series, sporning 3 further films. Rambo 2 and 3 became very right wing, with America re-fighting and winning in Vietnam and then with Rambo beating back the Soviets in Afganstan. However, First Blood had more of a heart and a message about the treatment of veterans and the trauma they suffer (admittly taking it to the extremes). It's a bit more psychological then the other Rambo films. The direction by Ted Kotcheff, he handled the actors and the action well. I personally enjoyed how Rambo was able to camouflage himself, and able to fight with instinct. It gives you a good insight in the style of war, and how the survival skills were transfered to forests of North-West America. The writers and director also made sure that to keep Rambo a moral and sympathetic character he never killed anyone directly. That was a wise more so the audience can support him. It's a little like Jason Bourne before Bourne came to the cinema. Out of the 80s actions stars, Arnold Schwarzenegger, Dolph Lundgren, Jean-Claude Van Damme (80s and 90s), Steven Seagal (admittly 90s), etc... Stallone is the best actor out of all them and this was a strong performance by him, especially his final speech. Kotcheff made sure he didn't make a clichéd action film.However there are two major films. Firstly the premise is a little thin. Why did Rambo bother going back to the town in the first place? But there are worst ideas and Rambo is a decent film. Second is sadly the film is dated nowadays compared modern actions films (Bourne films) and war films (Saving Private Ryan). But it is a standard of good to 80s auctioneers.It's worth watching if you want something short to escape the world.
Christopher Nolan is one of the most popular and celebrated director, making films like Memento, Inception and of course The Dark Knight Trilogy. But every director has to start someone and Nolan was with the very low budget, but very well made Following.In London, a young man, Lee (Jeremy Theobald) is a struggling writer who follows random people just to see where they go, doing it for research for his book. But one well-dressed person he follows, Cobb (Alex Haw), turns out to be a burglar and Lee becomes his partner in crime. But Lee slowly gets sucked up into the London underworld when he befriends one of his victims (Lucy Russell).Following is a very low budget film; it was made on a budget of £6000 and it Nolan over a year to make it. Following was still a very well made, taut affair, running in at trim 70 minute and is a film that never drags at any moment. It is compelling film, both as a thriller and early on as a psychological piece, looking at obsession, voyeurism and finding out and creating your own stories about people.Nolan uses a non-linear narrative, similar to Quentin Tarantino films and Memento. The non-linear can be annoying but Nolan uses it to his advantage and allowed for the film to keep the twists and turns coming. If I had to be critical the grand plan is a little convoluted, but Nolan was make the pieces fit with his writing and direction.For a low budget film Following looks good: Nolan uses black and white 16mm film giving the film a distractive look. It is a film that accepts its noir influence but still gives it a more modern, British look, accepting the bleaker landscapes of London like the abandoned building. When music was used it had techno, pumping beat, adding to the tension on the screen.Following is an excellent start to Nolan's career, doing a lot with the limits of his budget. Some of the acting is not as convincing as in his later films, but Following showed what Nolan was capable of and it is his most distinctively British film.
Since the release of 300 there has been a raise in pseudo-historical films geared to more adult audiences such as Black Death, Solomon Kane and Centurion just to name a few. In the midst of the raise of this genre is Ironclad, one of the most insult and terrible and it offensive to anyone who has a slight be of historical knowledge After a brutal civil war with his Barons King John (Paul Giamatti) was forced to sign the Magna Carta which limits his power in 1215. But a year later John reneges on the deal and with a group of Danish pagan mercenaries (in real life Denmark was a Christian country at this time) and starts to kill all the barons that made sign the treaty. Once baron, William d'Aubigny (Brian Cox) takes a stand and seizes Rochester Castle with Knights Templar Thomas Marshall (James Purefoy) as the Archbishop of Canterbury (Charles Dance) tries to get the French to support the rebellion. D'Aubigny and Marshall with 20 men have hold Rochester against King John's army as they wait for reinforcements.Historically this film has gotten its fact wrong badly and it seems no cared at all. Writer/director Jonathan English made out that d'Aubigny was standing up for the freedom of the people and that King John was a false king, ignore that d'Aubigny inherited his title, he died a loyalist and that the barons were far from representing the people more their self interests. They barons only cared about the lower classes for their tax take, that's it, there was no notion of freedom, of believing that the monarchy was a false form of government when it would have been seen as too radical to overthrow the whole system. This film is even more insulting when it shows King John as a vengeful, violence sadist, who commit's the acts himself, including chopping the hands of a character. John only has Danes fighting for him when in reality he had English supporters and one of the most stupid things the film pushes is at the end when the narrators says that John was overthrown and a French Prince became king, even thought in reality it was John's son inherited the throne.But even if you can look pass the awful history Ironclad is still a terrible film. I am sure a lot of people wanted to see it for the action and even that's fails because the camera work is some of the worst I have seen in a mainstream film. It looked like the cameraman was drunk throughout as the camera could not stay still and with the ultra quick editing it was impossible to tell what was going one. It was a relief when there was a wide shot, even if it only lasted a few seconds. This was a film that really enjoyed and linger on the violence. Whilst I expected it bloody this film was too over the top, including a man being beaten with a severed arm and a Danish soldier gets hacked in half and that it seemed to be the only point of the film. There were a few fun moments but they are few and far between.On a character and acting level the film was bare bones. King John was pretty much playing Edward I in Braveheart whilst d'Aubigny is William Wallace and I hated Braveheart with a passion. They were one dimensional characters and the actors were seemingly having a competition on who can over act the most. d'Aubigny is a jerk, he enforces a conflict on Reginald de Cornhill (Derek Jacobi) and the film actually had to make him dislikeable by giving him a young wife in the form of Kate Mara just so d'Aubigny is more sympathetic. And Mara was terrible in this film, she was only cast because she has a pretty face: it was a role intended for Megan Fox which should tell you something. He had no conviction in her delivery and a blank facial expression. And the film has the gaul to turn her into a warrior woman.The only two actors that come out of this film with some credit are Purefoy who was convincing as the action hero and was treating the film seriously, he deserves to lead a good film. The other is Aneurin Barnard, a young squire who enters into battle for the first time, playing his role with conviction, even if he is playing a clichéd role of a young man who has to that there is nothing noble about the violence of battle (seeing that this is a film wanting the audience to revival in the violence it's a little hypocritical). Jason Flyming too seemed like he was having fun with his role but it was a dump role.If you have any interest in history this a film to avoid and even if you are an action junkie or someone who is a fan of cinema violence will be disappointed because you can not tell what is happening. This is a film to miss. Watch 300 or Centurion instead.
As you would expect from the controversial Lars von Trier and a film  called Nymphomaniac, you know in advance that we are not getting a shy,  conservative affair and von Trier does not disappoint. The infamous  director manages to craft a two-part film which fans of art-house  cinema will be salivating from the mouth over.  In a ubiquitous British town, Seligman (Stellan Skarsgård) finds Joe  (Charlotte Gainsbourg) unconscious in an alley way. Seligman takes Joe  back to his home where Joe tells him she is a bad person and tells him  her story from her childhood, to young adulthood (Stacy Martin), to  present day, reflecting on her sexual experiences and major  relationships, while the intelligential Seligman and Older Joe  philosophising and interpreting her actions.  Von Trier does not hold back from showing various sexual activity and  Joe's descent into sexual violence, as she looks for more extreme ways  to get a thrill as her behaviour and needs take a physical, mental and  social toll on Joe. Nymphomaniac is unflinching with its sex scenes,  Joe getting hit hard during her sadomasochist sessions and showing of  male and female genitalia of all shapes and sizes, including wince  inducting moments when showing the harm on Joe's private parts go  through.  Throughout the film we see Joe's sexual journey, from her fascination  as a child to her pleasure herself and seek fulfilment. There are many  different aspects of Joe's sexuality during Nymphomaniac, using sex as  an escape when her father (Christian Salter) and the indifferent on  face when she competes with her friend to seduce as many men as  possible during a train journey. Von Trier explores many of the  destructive aspects of being a sex addict, destroying friendships,  being unable to form any relationships with partners and family,  struggle to have emotional attachments and the impact that Joe's  actions has on others. Joe is a character who rejects the idea of love  and romance and leads to the question, does Joe reject it because of  her upbringing, her addiction makes her unable to love or because is it  because of her inability to loves makes her a sex addict? The  discussions between Older Joe and Seligman are a framing device and  allow von Trier to explore the philosophical parts of the story. But  this is when von Trier spells out his views and meanings of the film.  Both Older Joe and Seligman are used discuss to complex mathematical  theorems, religious iconography, the meaning of words and morality. But  to be fair, some of the elements do require specific knowledge so some  explanation was needed.  Nymphomaniac's cast features von Trier regulars, established talent  like Jamie Bell and Uma Thurman and new actors with Stacy Martin,  Sophie Kennedy Clark and Mia Goth. The performances range from good to  excellent and the new young actresses do show real talent, as they give  fantastic performances.  The let down in the cast is Shia LaBeouf. It is easy to mock LaBeouf  because of his recent off screen antics, but his performance was  hampered when you can play guess the accent. My own personal guesses  were Scottish, Irish, New Zealander and South African and other  people's guesses ranged from Cockney, Australian and Scandinavian.  Von Trier and his cinematographer Manuel Alberto Claro were able to  combine both a grim, kitchen sink realistic aesthetic, while also  making sure von Trier adds artistic flourishes, as he uses graphics,  text and cross cutting to various images. Despite some of the heavy  themes and imagery, von Trier made sure moments dark humour and wit to  help lighten the mood and prevent Nymphomaniac from being too  depressing as an experience.  Nymphomaniac is an interesting, thoughtful film that is more than about  controversy and titillation. Filled with a mostly excellent cast,  Nymphomaniac should please fans of von Trier and art-house cinema.
Sofia Coppola took a real critical and audience bashing after her dire performance in The Godfather Part III. She quickly left acting behind and did not have many acting gigs afterwards. Luckily she has found her calling as a director-writer, starting with her adaptation of Jeffrey Eugenides' debut novel.In a wealthy suburb in 1970s Michigan there are five sisters, Therese (Leslie Hayman), Mary (A.J. Cook), Bonnie (Chelse Swain), Lux (Kirsten Dunst) and Cecilia (Hanna R. Hall) who live with their authoritarian, religious parents (James Woods and Kathleen Turner). But tragedy strikes when 13-year-old Cecila kills herself. Watching them from a far are a group of neighbourhood boys as the tragedy unfolds and watches as Lux falls for local heartthrob Trip (Josh Hartnett) and the boys try to put the pieces of the puzzle of what happened to the girls.The Virgin Suicides is a tackles a dark subject and Coppola juxtaposes it with a bright, dreamy visual with a golden filter, sun dearth landscapes and dreamy editing and she keeps the girls at a distance. We do know much of the girls or why they did what they do. Admittedly I would have wanted to see the girls given more personality and be recognisable; it is only Lux we get to see or know. But I will give Coppola credit that despite not seeing the details we see the boys seeing Lux really descent down a dark path. This is a film about not knowing what happens behind closed doors, about restricting girls' social outlets and trying to dominate their lives just makes a pressured situation that is ready to go off and the ever changing nature of what it is like to be a teenager. It is particularly dark because one of the first scenes is a 13-year-old lying in a blood filled bath and it makes you wonder what would drive someone that young into doing something that extreme.The Virgin Suicides is a very well acted film and Coppola does get a really good cast. The actors were natural and the film did feel like it was set in a real American suburb with all the darkness under the surface, what teenagers get up to and the talking behind someone's back when something tragic happens. Turner played the true villain of the piece as the strict, controlling woman who does not allow her daughters to have any freedoms. Wood is a more sympathetic character if the clichéd man who keeps his feelings to himself. Dunst too was very strong as a teen with obvious problems as she slow enters in promiscuity at her young age.The Virgin Suicides is a very compelling drama and a great debut by Coppola. She keeps the mystery going as we see pretty the same things as the main characters. This is a engaging and interesting film and type a film a first time director should make, a visually striking that is story and character focus and low budget.
For me it's a toss up between Watchmen and V for Vendetta on which is Alan Moore's best work. Most people say Watchmen, but there is something special about V for Vendetta that marks it a remarkable graphic novel. Alan Moore's work has never been adapted well for the screen. There was the epic failure The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen which ruined Stephen Norrington and made Sean Connery retire from acting, and From Hell which butchered the graphic novel's material. V for Vendetta however has bucked that trend, but Alan Moore has completely distanced himself from Hollywood.In the future Britain is being led by a totalitarian government, led by Adam Sutler (John Hurt). There is one freedom fighter, V (Hugo Weaving), a man who had suffered from experiments by the government and bases himself on Guy Fawkes. He has a two prong attack, one against all the people who tortured him, killing them for vengeance. The other is against the government, where he aims to gravitate support against the government, cause unrest, get people to question the government, and lead to an uprising against Adam Sutler on the 5th November. Early on in the film V saves Evey Hammond (Natalie Portman), a rebellious young woman who dislikes the government and works for the national television company. She falls for V's ideas, and sets out to help him in his quest. This despite her dislike for killing. The government as you can imagine doesn't like the idea of being overthrown. The special police are put on high alert and two officers are assigned to lead the cast, Eric Finch (Stephen Rea) and Peter Creedy (Tim Pigott-Smith). Finch is simply a good cop who is just doing his duty, wanting to save people, and upset about the death of his friend, whilst Creedy is an ideologue who believes in the party and more importantly, his one self interest.The graphic novel is of course always going to be better. It is so deep, full of ideas and numberous sub-plot. These can be covered in a comic format which when can handle them over a number of years, that a two-hour film can't. V for Vendetta is also a product of the Cold War and Thatcherism (the latter wouldn't have meant much to American audiences). In the graphic novel Britain had elected a left wing government which brought Britain out of NATO which is why Britain was never nuked during World War III. This had to be changed for modern audiences, and so it the idea of fascism vs. anarchism, to directorship and control vs. freedom of will. It was done well in the film though. For American audience V was turned from a anti-hero, anarchist who was willing to kill and betray anyone who stood in his way to more straight-forward hero who as well as uses action, uses more subtle methods to achieve his goals. The one major change I didn't like though was the change in Evey's character. In the graphic novel she starts as a scared 16-year-old orphan who lives in a labour camp and ends up trying prostitute herself. V saves her, introduces her to the world of rebellion and lets her grow as a character. She is a very conflicted, psychologically damaged girl, for example she has an with a man in his 50s. I thought that characterisation was more interesting.V for Vendetta was the Wachowski brother's follow-up to the successful Matrix trilogy. They are big fans of the graphic novel, and wrote the script to be more then an action film or a simple comic adaption. It could easily have ended up being like Daredevil or Elektra where a not so well comic character ends up being in a weak film. They wanted to make a film with substances and places the film in a post 9/11, George W. Bush world. There are films about terrorism, how far someone should go, but I think the more important issue a government's use of fear to force through there policies (that's what George W. Bush and neo-cons did in America). Other ideas include freedom and what someone should do to ensure it, and the idea of liking in a surveillance society. The government in this film is basically a cross between the Nazis and Big Brother in George Orwell's brilliant 1984. I do however criticise the Wachowskis using some Americanisms in a film set in Britain. This is the first feature film by James McTeigue, an Australian who worked as the First Assistant Director on the Matrix trilogy. He shows he has a great eye of action, having some good, bloody fight scenes, as well as keeping the dramatic element, such as Evey's torture sequence and the flashback to the Larkhill Camp (they were also some of my favourite elements in the graphic novel). I'm sure the Wachowskis has some hand in directing the film, but hopefully McTeigue did most of the work. This make V for Vendetta a rare exception, were a first time director can make a good big budget film.Hugo Weaving was very good playing the distant V, a character where you don't know much about his past and you never get to see his face. John Hurt and Tim Pigott-Smith make good villains, especially Hurt as the leader of the government. I however criticise the casting of Natalie Portman. Her English accent was weak and an English actress would have been better for the role. I think Keira Knightley would have been a better choice for Evey.V for Vendetta tries to keep to the spirit of the graphic novel, not to the letter.
Attack the Block continues 2011 of aliens on Earth, starting with Battle: Los Angles and Paul and with Cowboys and Aliens and Super 8.On Guy Fawkes Night in a council estate in South London our gang of teenage protagonists lead by Moses (John Boyega) bravely mug our heroine, newly qualified nurse Sam (Jodie Whittaker) when a alien clashes down to Earth. Their natural response is to kick the living s**t out of it and celebrate their triumph. But more aliens start to land on Earth, large, hairy, pitch black beasts with grow in the dark teeth. With the aliens gathering on the estate the gang have to tool themselves up to fight this deadly menace.Attack the Block is another send up of typically American genres by Big Talk Productions, the company that made Shaun of the Dead and Hot Fuzz. For me it is great to see that alien do invade outside the USA. Attack the Block is a very competent debut by Joe Cornish who combines a witty script with lots of action and horror in an 88 minute package. There was a certain B-Movie clarm to film, a little like John Carpenter with characters grabbing whatever they can for weapons, including a katana, the way the score sounds and even the font for the title. For horror fans there is plenty of violence and gore to keep you happy and the aliens are effective monsters with their long black hair and glowing teeth. Cornish needs to be praised for using as little CGI as possible.Comedy veteran Nick Frost provides the most laughs as a drug dealer who shall a little apathetic to the situation. Most of the actors are good and believable, many of them being unprofessional youngsters. The dialogue felt like it was improvised and makes the characters sound more natural and funny. Boyega certainly has a lot of potential and I hope he sticks to acting.There is however a tonal shift in the film, from a light-hearted affair to something more serious as the film moved on. Attack the Block is funny but it needed to spread its humour more evenly. There are some running gags through the film, some working better then others. The little kids who want to be hard-men are funny as they try to be like the gang, but the middle-class university student played by Luke Treadaway, becoming annoying: possibly because I found him too stereotypical.Overall, this is the best alien based comedy starring Nick Frost this year.
In recent years we have seen an expansion in the spy thriller genre, whether it is the new Bond series and the Bourne trilogy, the action-originated films like the Mission Impossible series and Salt, to contemporary affairs like Body of Lies and Rendition. This new adaptation of the John le Carre novel sets out to be a much more complex and grounded affair.In 1973 a failed operation in Budapest, Hungary forces Control (John Hurt), the head of the British Secret Intelligence Service (better known as the Circus) and his loyal deputy George Smiley (Gary Oldman) to resign in disgrace. A year later, the new head of the Circus Sir Percy Alleline (Toby Jones) believes the time is right to share intelligence with the American about their top source in Moscow, Witchcraft. But a returning agent, Ricki Tarr (Tom Hardy) reports that one of the top men at the Circus is a Soviet Mole. Smiley is brought from the cold in to investigate these claims with Circus handler Peter Guillam (Benedict Cumberbatch) and ex-police officer Mendel (Roger Lloyd-Park). He digs deeper to find out a secret that could rock the British intelligence establishment.Coming off the back of Let the Right One In Tomas Alfredson makes a very complex, slow burning thriller. The mystery is unveiled gradually and Alfredson shows a stark, cold world of espionage. Even the interior of the Circus' headquarters, is a dark, soulless place particular because of the historical exterior. There is no glamour in this world, action is kept to a minimum and when it does happen it is very quick and brutal. This stark tone is established early on with a slow, tense build up, with a subtle score knowing something is wrong and results with an innocent woman getting shot in the head. Alfredson and the writing team certainly capture the plot of the novel and the tone of realism whilst making some chances to make the film their own.The cast is great, it is like a Harry Potter film, get some of the best British actors around. Everyone is natural and capture their characters. Oldman is not quiet the Smiley in the novel, who is described as having a frog/toad like appearance, chubby and betrayed as a nice if cool and lonely man. Obviously Oldman does not look like and his version of Smiley is that he is a harsher person and very internal, but he is still very intelligence, focused man and the best man to solve this case. Hardy makes out that Ricki Tarr to be a very softly spoken and seemingly meek, who just happens to be an MI6 assassin and field officer. He is almost like a lost boy thrown into a complex world as he is thrown into something he could rock his world. Jones developed a strange accent as he is very accurate to the character in the book. Firth too gives a strong performance as one of the few people at the Circus who shows competence. Cumberbatch shows why he is an emerging actor and pretty much has the second biggest role in the film.The plot is loosely based on real-life double agent Kim Philby and le Carre's experience with him. The actual plot seems simple enough, the Soviets have planted a double agent who was able to rise high up into the upper epsilons of MI6 and able to feed them fake intelligence. But there is so much more to it in the way this mystery unfolds. Whilst it is impossible to show all the character backgrounds and internal politics that was described in the novel but Alfredson did what he could do to show it. Some of the characters were pushed aside because of it but Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy is a strong adaptation of a film that is both a smart spy thriller and a period piece.
The comedy-drama genre, or "dramedy" is a tough nut to crack and a problem can be that films lean too far into drama and the comedy on offer is usually very light. Crazy, Stupid, Love fortunately breaks that model and is actually funny, as well as dramatic.Cal and Emily Weaver (Steve Carell and Julianne Moore) are a married couple who have two young children and Emily ask Cal for a divorce after she admits she had slept with co-worker. Cal is heartbroken, loses his friends and spends his time at a bar bemoaning his situation. A successful bachelor and womaniser, Jacob (Ryan Gosling), takes pity on Cal and tutors in the ways of picking up, gives him a makeover and a new wardrobe and after some mishaps becomes plenty successful himself. But he still longs for Emily and there still seems to be a spark between the two.Despite Jacob's success with the ladies there is one woman who knocks him back, a very attractive law graduate, Hannah (Emma Stone), and this is the woman who he actually has a connection with whilst Hannah actually longs for being more exciting.Cal's son, Robbie (Jonah Bono), is a 13-year-old boy who is infatuated with his 17-year-old babysitter, Jessica (Analeigh Tipton), embarrassing and hounding her. But Jessica is a bit of strange girl and actually fancies Cal himself.Much of the comedy is based on awkward situations, mostly at Cal's expense, a little like The 40 Year Virgin. The situation and humour portray is in a slightly exaggerated world, but for the most it works and we can believe most of the situations, except maybe why would a 17-year-old fancy a man like Steve Carell. He does not strike me as a person who teenagers would fall for.There is a great cast in the film and they are excellent throughout. Carell and Gosling were the best of them all. Carell is a natural comedian, making his character believable despite what's happening around him and is a natural delivery of his lines. He is also great at the more dramatic elements and I would like to see him in more dramatic roles. Gosling has shown he is a very talented actor and can tackle almost any genre and he shows he has excellent comic timing. What is even more remarkable it would be really easy to dislike Jacob as a character, but Gosling and the writers were able to making him into a more interesting, likable character simply because he because he formed friendship with Cal.Moore plays the most grounded, serious character and she does a good job with what she has to do and she is always a pleasant screen presence. Stone is a strong, fun loving character, with plenty of spunk and when she was with her friend a great person to be around, but the she did get the shaft with screen time and her story was lacking development. Tipton shows she is an actress with potential and she really felt like a naïve, young 17-year-old, both physical because of her small frame and braid and also the way she act and properly why she has a daddy complex, because it is safe.There are a few visual treats in the film to keep film fresh. The best example is a montage where the camera pans around a bar as we see Cal become a ladies man and see him pick up a number of women in an excellent 30 seconds.Crazy, Stupid, Love is a very good but there a few faults. There are funny scenes and characters, but Marisa Tomei's role as a teacher who Cal sleeps with was someone who simply mugged and overdone when the character and the comedy should have been more grounded and awkward then overblown. It is even more annoying because Tomei is a very talented actress. Also because of the large cast of characters some of the character really did drop off the screen at times. This was the case of Hannah who is physically not in the film for large portions of film: but Stone is a strong performance and has excellent chemistry with Gosling and her friend played by Liza Lapira.A more minor criticism is the role of Cal and Emily's daughter, Molly, played by Joey King who seems market the uncharacterised child role. I can understand why she was included because it would have been weird for a 17-year-old girl to only babysit a 13-year-old boy, but Molly could have had a few more scenes.Crazy, Stupid, Love film is an enjoyable film that is funny for the most part and does build on its dramatic elements and character development. Crazy, Stupid, Love has sometimes been classified as a romantic-comedy, if that is the case it is a great example of a film that avoids clichés and is a film that people who do not like the genre can enjoy. It makes an big constant to Gosling's other romantic film, Blue Valentine.
Since the release of Tangled Disney Animation Studios have been having a mini-revival under John Lassister and Frozen sees Disney goes for a full return to fall musical princess story.In the kingdom of Arendelle Princess Elsa (Idina Menzel) is born with the ability to create ice and snow. But when her powers cause her younger sister, Anna (Kristen Bell) to have an accident and have her memory erased. After that her parents shut Elsa away and try to teach her to use her powers. When the king and queen die at sea Elsa has to become the queen and ends up loosing control of her powers at her ball in her honour when Anna announces she is engaged to Prince Hans (Santino Fontana). Anna sets out to find Elsa convince her to winter.The heart of the relationship and interactions between the sisters. Menzel and Bell were excellent together, they had the best songs, strong chemistry and their singing voices complicate each other, Menzel's powerful voice, to Bell's more higher pitched voice. Their songs particularly felt like Disney had their eye on a stage show, with one little line where Anna says Arendelle is in deep, deep, deep snow had a stage quality to it.Menzel is best known for her lead role in Wicked and Elsa does share some similarities. Both characters are isolated who are struggling to control their powers. Even the songs Let it Go and No Good Deeds have a similar tone and style.Olaf the Snowman played by Josh Gad was heavily promoted in the trailers and he seemed like he was going to be an annoying creation. He turned out to be a charming little character who did offer most of the jokes and humour for the film and does at least have a kind heart and meaning to princesses. The other areas of humour came from Anna being crummy and her interactions with Kristoff (Jonathan Groff).As you would expect from a Disney Animated film the animation is of a top level, with excellent character designs, the scenery and art direction and camera angles, movements and placement. There are some solid action sequences to also liven events up.Frozen starts at a brisk place, having an introductory song and there are five songs in the first five thirty minutes. The songs slow down after 'Let it Go', but I personally would have like more songs, particularly from Menzel and a little more from Bell. They two worked so well together and Menzel only sings in three songs. I would have preferred it if the film was a bit more like the Les Miserables film where there was constantly singing or at they be more songs during the running time.As a musical Frozen is strong, but at a plot it a typical Disney film and the plot points can seen coming from a mile off, especially in the final act.Frozen is an enjoyable film that fans of Disney animated films will enjoy and shows there is plenty of life in the Disney Princess genre and animated musicals.
Bad Teacher had a strong premise for a comedy, a teacher is really bad and hates her job. It was marketed a raunchy hard-R comedy: sadly it was a film that was lacking, despite the best efforts of the actors.Elizabeth Halsey (Cameron Diaz) is the bad teacher in question who leaves the profession and forced to return when her fiancé dumps her for her gold digging ways. She returns to John Adams Middle High (JAMS) and sets out to win over Scott Delacorte (Justin Timberlake), a geeky substitute teacher who is the heir to a watch empire. He particularly likes women with big breasts and Elizabeth plans to get a boob job: but needs the money. But Scott himself is attached to Amy Squirrel (Lucy Punch), a quirky caring teacher who gets the best results in school. At the same time Elizabeth has a suitor in the form a Gym/P.E. teacher (Jason Seagel). When Elizabeth finds out the prize for the best school results in the Illinois State Test is a big cheque, she sets about to ensure her class is the best.The jokes were just lacking through the film. I was in a cinema that was 75% full and there were a lot of teachers in it and I can say with honesty that there was very little laugher, a few chuckles and no belly laughs. That says a lot about a comedy because the point is to make us laugh. I believe one of two things happened, either, that the film was originally going to be a PG-13 film and the producers thought that the film was more marketable as a R-rated comedy, or the more likely that it was cut much of the swearing out to get a PG-13 rating, and failed. Most of the use of the F word in the red band trailer was cut out from the actual film. They were also plot points, like when Elizabeth offered to tutor her students, goes nowhere. The pace throughout was just very slow and Bad Teacher needed more snap.Acting wise the best performance was Seagel best person the film, having the best lines with his role and the most grounded character in the film. He was simply natural as a gym teacher who just wants to have fun, though he has a dodgy line which makes him sound like a potential rapist. Punch is solid and she is deliberately over the top as a quirky teacher, but she does not have many good lines and Punch has to make the performance as physical as possible. She also gets very screwed over in the film. Diaz does her best but the character is not very well developed and her traits flipped like a switch. Most of the time she is shown as an uncaring person, only interested in herself and only got into teaching for the hours: but at the same time she does help some students and surely she should have cared as some point about teaching. She is also too ruthless, she needed to be a deeper character.I also have to comment about the actual school On Wikipedia it describes JAMS as a school in a poor area: it was certainly not, it was in a very middle class area. I liked how the kids in the school actually looked normal and not in cliques like the jocks, the nerds, the pretty girls, cheerleaders, etc They were mixed. But at the same time it seems like that the teachers only have one class: when I was in school the teachers had to teach classes over many years, if they only taught one class then they would have a very short working week.Overall, a big disappointment.
Locke is the second directorial effort from writer Steven Knight and he takes a more daring turn away from crime dramas, in order to craft a minimalistic drama, in one location and a single character on screen.Ivan Locke (Tom Hardy) is successful Welsh construction manager who is about to run one of the largest civilian construction projects in Western Europe, in the city of Birmingham. But instead of heading home to watch football with his wife (Ruth Wilson) and sons (Tom Holland and Bill Milner) in Manchester, he heads to Croydon in London to be with Bethan (Olivia Colman), a lonely woman he had a one night stand with and giving birth to his baby. While he drives to down on the motorway, he tries to keep control of his personal and professional life as its starts to collapse thought his phone.Locke is a character study and its centred around an excellent performance by Hardy, who had the unenviable task of carrying the film alone. Hardy as Locke is clinical figure, who aims to keep control of events even when he is in no real position to do so, by trying to stick to his personal sense of duty and obligations. Locke aims to be cool, calm and collected, as he tries to keep his marriage, support a lonely, depressed woman during a complex birth and keep the construction job going despite leaving it at its most important time.Hardy is a compelling screen presence and he gives a much more grounded, quieter performance, compared to some of his more grandiose roles in the past. He shows his talent and conviction, whether it was speaking with his colleagues or appealing to his wife and there are flashes anger and emotion when having an imagery conversations with his father as his shadow still lingers over Locke.Hardy does provide an excellent Welsh accent and Locke features a fine voice cast of voice cast. Actors like Wilson, Colman, Holland and Milner have all appeared in major projects and all deliver emotional performances. Wilson and Colman have difficult roles as they deliver it through their voices, Wilson as the betrayed wife and Colman as a scared woman with depression as she goes through giving birth alone.Locke is a bold experiment for Knight, as he steps out of his comfort zone, moving to a low-key, grounded drama and Hardy continues to enhance his reputation as an actor. Many people could easily relate to Locke, as many of us have tried to solve personal and professional problems over the phone. But due to limited scope, Locke could have been served better as a short film, short story or a theatrical or radio play.6.5/10Please visit www.entertainmentfuse.com
Prometheus is the return of Ridley Scott to the sci-fi genre and the Alien Series and hype has been building for months. But a backlash has already has formed and people have stated there negative feelings against it. Is it the cast of the hype being too much or hater just wanting to hate? Elizabeth Shaw (Noomi Rapace) and Charlie Holloway (Logan Marshall-Green) are two scientists who discover a star map in the ruins of civilisations that had no way of contacting each other. With the support of Peter Weyland (Guy Pearce), the CEO of the Weyland Corp. they are funded to go on a scientific exploration to the moon LV-223 to find what Shaw and Holloway call the "Engineers". On the voyage are the company representative Meredith Vickers (Charlize Theron), pilot Janek (Idris Elba), biologist Milburn (Rafe Spall), geologist Fifield (Sean Harris) and most importantly the android David (Michael Fassbender). But it turns out there is danger involving the discovery of this life form and of course to anyone who knows the Alien series anything to do with the Weyland Corp. can not be trusted.There is no denying that Prometheus is a very ambitious sci-fi film, focusing on story and ideas not just action, horror and set-pieces. The theme of corporate manipulation continues as the Weyland Corp use people to achieve their own ends, but there is something even bigger themes as it seems that Scott was trying to make a 2001: A Space Odyssey style epic as humanity tries to find its makers. It even starts like 2001: A Space Odyssey, started in Earth's past to some creature starts life on Earth and a mission find the source of message into outer space. But the take in Prometheus is much darker then it was in 2001: A Space Odyssey which was a much more hopeful film. There are themes of science being crossed with faith and theology, what would happen if humans did meet our makers and what would happen if are what we find is not what we want.Scott knows how to make worlds, whether it is a historical or sci-fi: that is why Blade Runner and Alien are still so revered. He continues with the tradition of the Alien series of the action set in one location, this time a strange shine, but also expands on the universe of Alien, making it even gritty world as we see a group of people explore the very edge of what we know. There are great set designs and vehicles and Scott uses physical effects and CGI to great effect and helps you get soaked into this grim environment. It is a great looking film, with strong action and a whine inducing scene in the middle.The cast is great, the roles are filled with great actors, from Fassbender and Rapace to even the likes of Kate Dickie from Red Road in a small role. Fassbender was the big highlight as the cold, emotionless android as he has an agenda. He starts off like Sam Bell from Moon, a character who is alone and has to keep himself busy, researching languages and whilst acting as the caretaker. And I wonder if there is an injoke calling him David as a reference to A.I. Artificial Intelligence. Rapace is a strong lead as woman of science and faith, a strong female character in what is a trait of Scott films and Alien films. She grows a character. Even thought Elba had a small role he was also a really strong member of the cast as the pilot, with plenty of characters and traits to enjoy. It is great he is getting a lot work. Marshall-Green has not been in many films he to was a good lead and worked well with Rapace. Theron too had a badass moment early on as she does push up when she awakes from cryogenic status and is a very professional and cool character. She is much more substance then she was in Snow White and the Huntsman.The big problem with Prometheus is the written. Damon Lindelof of Lost re-wrote the film and the film has a more episodic style as each twist and event happen and more and more questions are raised. There are questions left unanswered, like David doing some actions and how he would know if something would do a certain action. There are some holes like a biologist wants to run away from an alien rather then examine it: it would be a biologist's dream, the discovery of a life time. There is also obvious sequel baiting but considering the money the film has made the sequel will happen. The final problem is the casting of Guy Pearce, playing a old, dying man and I don't see why an older actor was not cast.Prometheus is a very interesting and compelling film, which has a lot of ideas. It is attempting to be a smart, more dramatic piece of work and not just a action or horror piece.On a final note, except for a few moments, the 3D is not essential to the film.
The future can be bright and the future can be bleak. It's an area that has always offered writers and filmmakers have often looked at and brought us some real classics. Here is Duncan Jones' homage to the great era of Sci-fi from of the 60s to the 80s.In Duncan Jones' vision of the future the world's energy needs are solved by mining the moon for helium-3 which can be used for nuclear fusion. Living on the dark side of the moon is Sam Bell (Sam Rockwell), who is coming to the end of a 3 year contract. He has lived in isolation, with only GERTY (Kevin Spacey), a robot who is programmed to serve him. His only contact from the outside world is video messages from his wife (Dominique McElligott) and the company. When one of the mining machines suffers some damage Sam goes out to fix it. However, after seeing images he crashes and wakes up after in the infirmary. GERTY tells Sam he is under orders no to let out the base and he has to trick the robot before being allowed out. In the open spaces of the moon Sam finds another version of himself. Both falls quickly into conflict, both arguing they are the real Sam and the other is a clone. But both also know something wider and darker is happening and they need to solve it before a rescue team arrive.Duncan Jones offers a strong and ambitious debut as a feature director. Sci-fi is not a genre that indie directors attempt and Jones does a wonderful job with a $5 Million budget. He shows that Sci-fi can be meaningful and doesn't resource to action and explosions to keep the audience's interest. It is thoughtful with themes of identity, isolation and the future of mankind. Jones keeps the mystery going and makes the audience exercise their mind whilst watching.Sam Rockwell has a tough job acting by himself, but he is a talented actor and does a excellently. He is allowed to show his range and can show a lot in his facial expressions. Kevin Spacey who is just a voice in this film offers a good impression of HAL 9000.Clint Mansell who composed an fantastic score for Requiem for a Dream has shown his musical talent again which a subtle, haunting score.Jones is an old fashion director, using models rather then CGI. It is refreshing to see in a modern film, is a lot more effective then CGI would have been on such a low budget. It reminds of films such as the original Star War films.Moon pays homage and has similarities to classic Sci-fi such as Alien, Blade Runner, Sunshine, 2001: A Space Odyssey (a must see) and 2010: the Year We Made Contact (a boring dud).Duncan Jones has a fine future ahead of him.
George Clooney is a man who likes to star in light-hearted films, such as From Dusk till Dawn, the Ocean Series, Burn After Reading and The Men Who Stare at Goats. With his latest film Up in the Air he has possibly made his best comic film and Jason Reitman is showing himself to be a director who outshine his father's success.Up in the Air tells the story of Ryan Bingham (George Clooney), a man whom job is sack large numbers of people for companies who are too scared to do it. He enjoys his job, allowing him to flight all over America. He is such a regular user of American Airways and Hilton Hotels that he has rewards schemes that most people can't access. He aims to be the seventh ever person to gain 10 Million Airmiles. He also acts as a motivational speaker, and believes that most people don't need many belongings. On his travels he meets Alex (Vera Farmiga), a follow traveller and the two form a friendship and causal relationship. But Ryan's livelihood as he knows it is under threat when a recent graduate of Cornell University Natalie (Anna Kendrick). Natalie notes the high cost of sending people across the country to sack people, and suggests using video conferencing technology and do the firing from the head office. Ryan obviously doesn't want to loose the jet-setting live style, but he also believes that his job needs a personal touch, and needed people with tough characters and experience. Their boss (Jason Bateman) pair the two off. Both try and show that their way is better and Natalie soon see that Ryan's live is really quite lonely, but he is happy with it.The film has a simple theme, that a jet-setting lifestyle can be very lonely. Ryan doesn't have an real friends, he is distance from his family and his home in Omaha is somewhere he hates. All he lives for is travelling and his job. He doesn't even see the sights. He only has causal relationships, but Alex could be his way out. The other is the film has a lot to say about the recession, with a lot of people loosing their jobs across America, and company either going out of business and downsizing. Cities live Detriot are really suffering because of the downturn in the manufacturing. As well, many people who are sack have been are often older and finding a new career path will be difficult.What makes this film what is that it has a very witty script, with good natural lines and jokes, making this a more low key comedy. This is the type of comedy films Hollywood should be making more of. It appeals to a clever audience, who listen to the film and not watching for something visual. Jason Reitman and Sheldon Turner write a fine script and I am sure their was some ad-libbing that helped. There is also real heart and emotion, allowing the characters to grow and see into each other's worlds. Ryan does grow into a more likable character. Reitman offer a very even handed approach of directing, mixing the humour and serious effectively. He has some stylist moments, but those are few and fair between. Despite the airborne nature of the film, Reitman direction is grounded.The cast is great in this film. Clooney offers one of his best comedic performances, and brings real depth to his character. He has wonderful comedic timing and is also able to show the serious nature of his character. The talented Vera Farmiga was also very good, bringing in a down-to-earth humour to her character. Anna Kendrick, best known for her role in the Twilight films, shows that she is a woman to lookout for in the future: she too shows herself an fine comedic performer. There is also an excellent support cast, such as comedic veterans like Jason Bateman and Melanie Lynskey, even some big actors who have cameos.An excellent, witty little film.
Another Year comes off the back of a lot of praise, earning a 92% on Rotten Tomatoes, nominated for the Palme d'Or at Cannes and a Best Original Screenplay Academy Award. But how does it really stack up? Tom (Jim Broadbent) and Gerri (Ruth Sheen) are a happily married middle class couple in London who are the glue which holds their friends and family together. Over the course of a year they have to handle their alcoholic friend Mary (Lesley Manville) as she slowly sinks into depression, their 30-year-old son Joe (Oliver Maltman) who is looking for someone else, their depressed friend Ken (Peter Wight) who too is looking for a parent and Tom's brother Ronnie (David Bradley) as he struggles with grief.The strongest aspect of Another Year is the acting: this film features a top cast and their were on the top of their game. Combined with the writing all the characters felt very real and the performances were very natural and it felt like you were watching real people. The actions and conversations too felt like you were watching real people and did not feel like a false version.But the good acting can not save a film that is a rather dull after. There are some good moments, particularly the wake but for the most part you were just watching people in their every day lives. Whilst Tom and Gerri are a happy and nice couple on a dramatic view point it is dull. Characters like Mary and Ronnie's stories would made more interesting stories then what actually on the screen and Tom and Gerri should have been supporting characters who offer help, guidance and be example of what they could be. The film is also too long and a good 15 minutes to 30 minutes could have been cut or shorten.On a technical front there were some strong little touches. The seasons were shot were different colour pallets, such as summer in a golden sunlit look to winter was in a drab grey visual with scenery to match. Mike Leigh knows where to place to camera, what to shot and has a good of tracking shots and longing shots on certain characters. The film also sticks closely of its theme of others longing to be with someone else, to be like Tom and Gerri and for the exception of Joe the other characters are dysfunctional.This is a minor gripe but I have to mention it, the film starts with Imelda Staunton being examined by a doctor because of her insomnia and it has not bearing on the plot and Staunton is only in the film for two scenes.Another Year is a very well acted film and it was obvious that there was a lot of commitment to this film, but it does not save it from being more of a dull experience then a dramatic look of ordinary people.
In the 80s sequels were becoming more popular within studios, offering instead brand recognition and a promise of a good box office return. There were some successes which were both critical and financial, like the Indiana Jones and Back to the Future series. Seeing that Ghostbusters was on of the best loved films of the 80s and forming a spin-off cartoon then a sequel was inevitable.Five years after the first film the Ghostbusters had gone out of business after being sued by the city and state of New York. The gang had gone their separate ways. But there are called back into action after a threat emerges to Dian Barrett (Sigourney Weaver) and her young son. Our heroes discover a strange river of paranormal slime that feeds of negative emotions (a bad cocktail when mixed with New Yorkers). Peter Venkman (Bill Murray), Ray Stantz (Dan Aykroyd), Egon Spengler (Harold Ramis) and Winston Zeddemore (Ernie Hudson) come back together and fight the forces of the paranormal for the good of New York. The also investigate the smile and the possible link to a strange painting in the New York Museum of Art.The first film was a classic to generations, the sequel is a decent effort, but nothing compared to the first film. Bill Murray and Harold Ramis still do a good comic job, particularly Murray and the director Ivan Reitman offers a steady hand behind the camera. The special effects were brilliant and storywises, there are worst and it does offer a commentary of New Yorkers. But what happens is this film falls into 2 traps. The first was going for easier visual and slapstick which was avoided in the first film. Bill Murray tries to keep his deadpan humour, but the film isn't as the first film. The second is the trap most comedy sequels fall into, repleting some of the same gags and scenes from the previous films. It shows a lack of originality.If you seen the first film you may as well watch it, but it's not as good as the first.
2014's Oscar nominations are in and 12 Years a Slave is one of the leading contenders for awards, for deserved reasons. Steve McQueen's stock as a director continues to rise as he delivers a powerful piece of cinema, unflinching and historically detailed film about the brutality of slavery as people are beaten and families are broken up in heart wrenching ways. McQueen's style of wide shot and long takes are perfectly suited for screen, particularly a brutal whipping sequence and showing when Solomon is left hanging and people around him go about their normal lives. There is a natural look in the setting and the cinematography uses natural lighting to great effect. The acting for the story if of a top level, being bold, emotional and theatrical throughout. The excellent Chiwetel Ejiofor centres this film, giving a great performance as an educated man whose spirit slowly breaks due to his years of captivity and being treated as nothing more than property. He is surrounded by a top cast, all giving excellent and complex characters showing the different parts of the society of the Deep South before the Civil War. Lupita Nyong'o and Adepero Oduye were both excellent two women who suffer greatly due to Slavery, and we get different perspectives, from Bendict Cumberbatch's William Ford who is one of the kinder slave owner, but overall a coward to the more brutal Michael Fassbender, playing one of the most vile characters in cinema in recent years whilst still giving the occasional moment of be human.12 Years a Slave tells an important story and done in a brutal, realist way. It is the most deserving of all the Oscar contenders.
After a long and successful career Jeff Bridges has finally won an Oscar for his performance as Bad Blake in Crazy Heart. Bad Blake is a washed up country star, performing in bars across the south-west of America: it doesn't gt much lower then performing in a bar at a bowling alley. He is an alcoholic, a chain smoker, in poor health, has a string of failed marriages and estranged from his son. But Bad has some ray of light in his world, first is he gets to perform at a concert for a successful country star, Tommy Sweet (Colin Farrell), who asks if Bad could write songs for him for his new album; second is forming a relationship with Jean Craddock (Maggie Gyllenhaal), a journalist for a small town paper. Bad and Jean's relationship quickly develops and Bad becomes a surrogate father for Jean's four year old son Buddy, wonderfully played by Jack Nation. Bad starts to write again, but his old ways make Bad his own worst enemy.This film had all the trapping of being a cliché, with all the old stuff, like alcoholism and a troubled father son relationship. Some critics have compared Crazy Heart with The Wrestler, following a similar story. They are also similarities with This is Spinal Tap (if it was done as a serious film) and the Johnny Cash biopic Walk the Line. Both obviously great film. Despite this built in disadvantage Scott Cooper shows himself to be a competent writer/director. He keeps the film going at a comfortable pace, gives the audience engaging characters, and give the film a more grounded, realistic feel, compared to the usual Hollywood formula. Cooper directs some good musical set-pieces, like the concert, and shows that he can give the film some heart.Even though Scott Cooper did a good job and hopefully should have a long career, Crazy Heart is an actor's film, like Closer and Frost/Nixon. This was Jeff Bridges' film, winning an Oscar for his career. He gives a excellent performance as the worn down singer who just drinks to mask the pain. Bad doesn't star out as a likable character but he grows and is shown to be a complex character. Maggie Gyllenhaal also offers a good performance in this film as a woman looking for love, thinking she found it with Bad. She deserved her Best Supporting Actress nod. Colin Farrell too is good in am almost cameo role, (did that actually come out right?) His role could have been easily made out as a typical villain, but Cooper avoided that.A solid film and a strong 7.5 out of 10.
Stanley Kubrick is a legend of film making, making classics such as The Killing, Paths of Glory, Dr. Strangelove, 2001: A Space Odyssey, A Clockwork Orange and Full Metal Jacket. He is easily my favourite director and Eyes Wide Shut is the last film he ever made.Set in New York Dr. Bill Hartford and Alice (Tom Cruise and Nicole Kidman) are upper class members of society in an unhappy marriage. During a party both end up flirting with other people until Bill has to treat a woman who has a bad reaction to speedball. The following night during an attempted night of passion and smoking weed Alice relieves she nearly had an affair, which Bill off the edge. He looks to get his own back, first finding an prostitute before running to an old university friend who tells him of a special event that he plays the piano at, taking part in strange ritual. Bill sneaks in the event, and finds that it sex ritual. It is an orgy, but one of the women tries to warn Bill and he found out. After the orgy Bill becomes paranoid, fears he is being followed and that these people would attack his family and suffers guilt from the events.Kubrick flair's for direction is shown once again. He tells a story extremely well, keeping your focus on the screen, unfolds the story gradually and keeps the mystery going. Kubrick is a very thematic director, as shown in his previous films. This time the themes are obsession and sex (similar to Lolita), the breakdown of marriage and the look at high society. There are small plot points, like the young girl sleeping with two older men, which add to film. Kubrick is magical behind the camera, filming some lovely shots, knowing exactly what the audience should focus on. He pays attention to detail, and has a love for tracking shots. He rarely has a need to make cuts, preferring to keep the film flowing.But this film does have weaknesses. The weakest is the acting from the leads. Nicole Kidman is schizophrenic in performance, being wooden for the most time, but did have moments of brilliance. Tom Cruise is normally a good actor and he was better then his then-wife, but this is not his strongest performance in his career. I can picture that Cruise did this project thinking he can win an Oscar. It is believed that Eyes Wide Shut lead to their break up. Luckily the supporting cast for this film was good. The other major problem with this film is the pacing, being a bit too slow at times. There are some very long scenes in this film. But Kubrick is a man who knew what he was doing.Kubrick is an artist. Eyes Wide Shut is his weakest film, but if this Kubrick at his worst, you can imagine what Kubrick was like at his best.A film for Kubrick purists like me.
This is a good example on how NOT to do make a comic-book conversation. It is poor written, has some poor casting, moves to far away from the comics and is at best described as so-so.The basic plot of the film is that it shows the origins of the Fantastic Four and Doctor Doom. The film shows Reed Richards and Ben Grimm looking for funding and assistance in research to conduct research in cosmic rays and go to Richards old university friend Victor von Doom. He agrees and goes with them into space to his own space station with his girlfriend Sue Storm and her brother Johnny. After exposer to the cosmic rays all five of them gain superpowers. The Fantastic Four become famous in America and set out to be superheroes, whilst Doctor Doom's company starts to crumble and he looks for revenge against the group.The Fantastic Four is a bit harder to make they some other superheroes from Marvel, it can't be made to be like X-Men and it doesn't have the emotional depth of Spiderman. It tries to be a light kids film, but ignores the fact that Doctor Doom can be sadistic and that he is a tyrant. The casting for the film was worst, Jessica Alba was too young to play Sue Storm, Ioan Gruffudd isn't a good actor, Julian McMahon is too pretty and not sinister enough to Doctor Doom and Michael Chiklis is not good looking enough to be Ben Grimm (but he was decent as the thing). The film didn't have a good plot, it was too predictable and just not exciting. It was hard to care for any of the characters. It didn't have the impact like other superhero films. The movie is also disloyal to the comics, Doctor Doom was the ruler of his home country, not an industrialist. Doctor Doom was also around before the Fantastic Four were around and it was Reed Richards who he blamed for it.The film basically goes nowhere fast.
Drugs have often been a popular theme in cinema, with excellent entries like Trainspotting, Requiem for a Dream and A Scanner Darker. Here is Terry Gilliam's take on this issue with this good dark comedy.Duke (Johnny Deep), a journalist, and his lawyer Gonzo (Benicio del Toro) are sent by their magazine to report on a desert car race in the city. They rent a car and have a hell of a lot of drugs sorted in the boot. On their travels they pick up a hitchhiker and scare the living hell out of him. Once in Las Vegas the pair take more drugs and are unable to report on the race. It was lucky that their editor send them to report on a anti-drugs conference.The film is based a novel by Hunter S. Thompson, which I haven't read. However the film seems to lack a proper plot and narrative. It may work in novels like Catch 22, The Catcher of the Rye, The Lovely Bones and the Man in the High Castle, but not so well in film. The film lacked focused. But what would normally be a fatal fault in an other film, it was saved by the quality of it director and actor. Terry Gilliam is a master of the surreal and his flair for direction is unmatched. Here the material is perfect for him. Johnny Depp and Benicio del Toro are both actors I like and both perfectly casted, especially Depp. He also doesn't look as attractive as usual so they is hope for us all. The film is played as a dark comedy and is very funny because of the jokes, the nature of the performances and direction.They themes within this film, such as the American Dream, the protest culture, counter-culture, the decline of the sixties, the corrupting force of Las Vegas and wealth. But to me the biggest theme of the film is simply drug really mess with your mind and enjoyable to watch.Perfectly good film, especially if you are a Gilliam or Depp fan.
Superheroes are all the rage these days, comic books are incredibly popular and since 2000 there has not been a year where there no tent pole film that is not a superhero film. In 2008 we got a superhero parody in the form Hancock but ended up becoming more like an action blockbuster. Dreamworks have also attempted an superhero comedy in the form of animation with Megamind.Megamind (Will Ferrell) is a blue, super-intelligent alien send to Earth as his home planet is sucked into a black hole. His archrival Metro Man (Brad Pitt) home planet also suffers the same fate. Both have very different upbringings, Metro Man growing up in wealth, luxury and always the golden boy, Megamind ended up in a prison of criminally gifted and because he is unable to impress of people ends up becoming a villain. In the city of Metro City (or Metrocity to Megamind) they have elaborate battles, with Metro Man being hailed as the hero. But one day Megamind some how won, killing Metro Man. The problem is that Metro Man had no plan to what to do afterwards and ends up depressed because he has no one to battle with. Megamind decides to create a new hero to battle with, making Titan (Jonah Hill). But Megamind also starts to fall for reporter Lois Lane, I mean Roxanne Ritchie (Tina Fey).Like most Dreamworks films the animation is excellent and the action sequence with its camera movements were exciting. It is an action packed, inventive and will please people of all ages. Director Tom McGrath made sure that Megamind zipped along at a very quick pace and when the score did make some of the moments truly epic.There was some good ideas in Megamind, like Megamind become evil because of his surrounding and that all good in his world is taken by someone else. It is the classic nature vs. nurture argument and there were ideas like the villain actually needs a hero to challenge them. It is like The Joker in The Dark Knight where he is only happy and motivated to do anything if Batman is there to challenge and what would a villain do if they actually win? What would their post victory strategy be? But the Megamind is a missed opportunity because instead of trying parody superheroes, they made a more physical, slapstick heavy comedy. There were some funny jokes, I did laugh but I wanted more verbal jokes and less of Megamind and Minion getting hurt. I wanted more observation humour, picking at holes that might happen in comic book and Saturday Morning Cartoons, which this film was good at.There is a recurring joke that Megamind can not pronounce some words, I thought it was more a pointless quirk then a funny joke and I personally do not like Jonah Hill: I do not think he is very funny and his performance was pretty weak. I also thought the parody vision of Marlon Brando's version of Jol-El was unfunny, poorly written and just felt very forced by Ferrell.The similarly themed The Incredibles is a much better film, but Megamind is an entertaining enough film, especially for children who enjoy superheroes.7.5/10
Dogtooth was a highly praised in the English speaking world, earning near universal praise, a nomination for Best Foreign Language and won the Prix Un Certain Regard at Cannes. But it is an example of a film being over-hyped just because it is a foreign language and the time of film the Cannes crowd love but most film fans do not.In a remorse country estate in Greece, three teens (Aggeliki Papoulia, Mary Tsoni and Christos Passalis) live in isolation from the rest of the world. They only contact with the outside world is their parents (Christos Stergioglou and Michelle Valley) and a security guard, Christina (Anna Kalaitzidou) who does sexual favours for their son but ends up getting the eldest daughter to perform oral sex. The teens are also taught weird lessons such as a unusual vocabulary, that cats are the most dangerous creatures known to man and they could only leave the compound when there loose their dogtooth and that the car is only safe way to leave the compound, even if it is a few inches. If the teens step out of line then they receive a slap, a beating or locked away.There are good ideas behind Dogtooth but there were poorly executed and I personally would have made a much different film. I like the idea of a psychological control, teaching the teens to avoid the outside world being almost like battery hens, that the teens are childlike, particularly the boy and that a girl ends up committing sex acts with out realising their significant. But the whole film felt very much like it was all set up and no pay off. There is real drive or plot and they could have been so much they could do with the basic, like the police and social raiding the compounding and the teens have to adapt to ordinary seeing that they have isolated and abuse, that the teen could test the boundaries want to go out the compound, a darker tale where the parents use more violence and sexual violence to keep the teens under control or the parents struggling to keep the teens under control.The director Yorgos Lanthimos does employ using 50s style single shots and lets scenes play out naturally. The simple approach works for the most part and Lanthimos does not hold back with the violence and the sex. But Lanthimos has a very cold and distance sense of direction. It seems like he did not care about the depth of characters or situation that is being played out. The it was very sterile atmosphere and character seems to act very calmly and just did not seem human. The acting from the whole cast is strong throughout and I do not blame the acts. Stergioglou is particularly sinister as the manipulated father. But Lanthimos seem to use violence and sex too much for shock value: the scene were well handled but some were over done, like the killing of a cat.Some commentaries have said Dogtooth was a satire and was funny. There was a scene that was funny, when all the characters were on all fours barking like dogs, but it was funny for all the wrong reasons. There is no satire or funny in this film and it is not much of anything. This is typical art house bait that French cinema snobs enjoy but does not appeal to any other audience. It is for people who have a smug scene of superiority thinking I am clever that I do not watch blockbusters like the plebs. They possibly do not this sort of film anyway.Dogtooth has a Rotten Tomatoes rating of 93%, so in theory it should be challenging to be on the IMDb Top 250. But the time I wrote this review it has a 7.2/10 so it have not translated that way and I personally predict the score will fall in the new few years.If you want to watch something about a child or teenager being isolated, taught strange things or being manipulated watch something like Kick-Ass or Hanna. They are both smarter, better written and much more entertaining then Dogtooth.The only reason Dogtooth is getting 5 out 10 is because of the actors, some of the themes and because I can not give it a 4.5/10.
xXx was an bad movie. It was marketed as the new Bond, having biggest action and hero people could relate to. After a sequel that dive-bombed at the box office and the Bond franchise better then ever the xXx movies are now dead in the water.The plot of the movie was weak, Xavder Cage (Vin Diesel), was an illegal extreme sports star ends up getting recruited into the NSA headed by Samuel L. Jackson. After a bit of training, including being sent to Colombia to avoid capture by Drug Barons. He is then sent to Prague to investigate Anarchy 99. Anarchy 99 aim is world domination and planned to use chemical weapons to destroy the world's major cities. The dialogue of the film was bad and there is no subtly. It is just a show of explosions and shooting battles where the bad guys can't seem to shot straight. It isn't even trying to be comedic which at least True Lies try to do (I'm not a fan of that film either). It seem to be an attack on Bond type films, but it didn't work. It was just aimed at 14-year-old boys and having extreme stunts and unrealistic events such as riding on a mission in the middle of the river Vltava. This sort of film would have had a short shelve life and will not last. It could not build a franchise and most people would outgrow this sort of movie.I remember when it was released that there was some talk that Vin Diesel was considered to be a potential Bond, and I was thinking what the hell are you one. Die Another Day tried to be more action based and be more unbelievable. The director of that film, Lee Tamahori, ended up directing the sequel. The real threat to Bond and forcing it to change was not this rubbish but the Bourne Trilogy.Its just not worth watching this film.
Before I start this review I want to say I am a fan of Zack Snyder's directional style and I find that Dawn of the Dead a great example of how to do a remake and 300 to be a really entertaining action film. But sadly Sucker Punch found to be a flaw work."Babydoll" (Emily Browning) is a young woman who after her mother dies is sent to a Mental Hospital when she accidentally kills her sister when trying to defence her from their step-father (Gerard Plunkett). In the hospital Babydoll is scheduled to have a lobotomy in five days. She has to escape before them. Blue (Oscar Isaac) secretly runs the hospital as a brothel with the girls performing erotic dances for high playing clinics. Babydoll befriends the girls, Rocket (Jena Malone), Sweet Pea (Abbie Cornish), Amber (Jamie Chung) and Blondie (Vanessa Hudgens) to get the five items they need to escape and as Babydoll dances she escapes into a world of fantasy.Snyder has a great visual style and he deserves to be an in demand director. He is one of the best action directors around, he sticks to his guns and I am still looking for to see what he does with The Man of Steel. There are some impressive action sequences in the Sucker Punch, the highlights being the sequence against the German World War One Zombies and against the mechanic robots. They are what Snyder does best, close action scenes, great camera movements and slow motion as well brutal (or as brutal as they can be for 12/PG-13 film) scenes with steam power zombies getting shot and stabbed. But it felt like Snyder was holding back and that Sucker Punch should have been 15/R rated film, with blood, gore and full on violence. Some elements like the sequence in the castle felt like it was borrowing from Peter Jackson's Lord of the Rings because the orcs looked the same. As well because the action sequences take place in the mind of Babydoll so they do not have any real impact on actual events of the film and music plays throughout them, making them seems more like music videos then being part of the film. Sucker Punch starts with a montage which is basically a music video and then there was a montage of Babydoll's life is again more like a music video. Babydoll hardly speaks for the first 20 minutes of the film.The acting throughout Sucker Punch is decent enough. I generally like Browning and I hope she has a long career but her character was at times little too meek and quiet. Isaac did have a real sinister edge to his character and he was a scary figure to the girls. But Carla Gugino spoke in an really exaggerated Russian accent that did get a bit annoying.As a film Sucker Punch does have some of the worst examples of fanboy/gaming culture. The first fantasy sequence sees Babydoll fighting three big samurai monsters and she is dressed throughout in a Japanese schoolgirl outfit. Some critics have complained that Sucker Punch is a sexist, leering at women in sexualised outfits whilst others say it that is empowering because they wore their outfits with authority and there is of course a feminist theory that woman should take back these outfits and woman should embrace these sexuality. I personally do not think it meant to be sexist but it does play into a fanboy fantasy that they want a woman to be a kick-ass hero but wants them to be hot whilst they do it.Sucker Punch is a disappointment for Snyder fans. It is just a film that is a load of good imagines but not substance behind them.
I love this film and the book it was based on. I personally this should have won the Oscars in 1972 instead of the French Connection. Stanley Kubrick is my favourite director and this film is a perfect example of his work, with good acting, an excellent story and great scenes and camera-work.The story of the film is it is set in the near future and it follows Alex, a 15-year-old boy who with his gang, rob, rape, fight and randomly attack people. They are not the only ones who do this and the country is littered with gangs and the police and government had lost control. In Alex's gang there is a power struggle and after a robbery gone wrong he was betrayed and gets arrested for murder. In prison he gets picked to become involved in experiments to prevent from committing violence acts. He is injected with a solution that makes him feel sick when thinking about violence and continues until he doesn't need the injections to be sick. When released Alex has no problems to deal with, his parents had accepted a lodger, his ex-gang members are in the police and attack him and he ends up at the home of a man whom he attacked and raped his wife in-front of him. When the man discoveries Alex's wrongdoing against him he tries to drive Alex to suicide.The themes of the film are the fears of youth running amok. The author of the book Anthony Burgess was influenced by the Mods and Rockers of the early 60s who attacked each other and in World War 2 when US troops raped and murdered his pregnant wife. Another theme was the idea of dyspotic society and this was done in two ways. Firstly was on the ground level because people lived in fear of young men and crime was ripe. Secondly is the role of the government, using mind control experiments, arresting political opposition and using violence law and order practises and using ex-gang members in the police. The other major theme of good and evil and whether it better to be forced to be good and have no free will and no self-defence or have free choice but use it to commit bad acts.The film does make some changes from the novel, most are minor but I think some should have been added to the film. First in the novel Alex does outgrow his violence tendencies by the age of 21 and even fathered a child. However, Kubrick probably got it right going for the darker ended. Other things that could have added to the story of film could have been showing Alex with a group of other prisoners murdering a prison and that was why Alex ended up getting picked for the experiment and Alex getting raped by his ex-gang members after he is released from prison and see they were working for the police.This film is a classic for me and would be in my top 5.
The Twilight series have polarised opinion, with people either loving it or hating: so much so that their is a big divide between fangirls who rate the Twilight films 10/10 whilst haters give them 1/10 before even seeing it. The Twilight series is also extremely popular but I didn't know anything about it until the first film came out. I realized how popular it was with Radio One presenters Fern Cotton and Jo Whiley talking about how much they were looking forward to New Moon, and seeing the very long quote to the cinema on Orange Wednesday when I went to see Paranormal Activity. I decided to record the film on my Sky Box for two reasons, to give my honest opinion, and to see what the fuss is all about.Twilight tells the story of Bella Swan (Kirsten Stewart), a 17-year-old girl from Arizona. Her mum and step-dad decide to go on a roadtrip so Bella decides to live with her dad (Billy Burke) in Forks, Washington: one of the wettest places in the USA. Bella makes some friends in a fairly normal high school, but she is quite a moody teenager. She takes an interest in the Cullen family, a strange family of foster children who like to keep to themselves. She takes a particular interest in Edward (Robert Pattinson); but he seems very rule to her. But one day in the parklot at her high school Edward saves Bella's live and their soon bond; despite Edward's best effort to avoid her. Edward seems to have a nack for saving Bella, so Bella discovers his secret: he's a vampire! The two form a romance but Edward has to resist the urge to bite Bella. The Cullens themselves are the vampire version of vegetarians; feeling on animals, not people. They try and live in human society as best there can but do have to move every few years. In Forks a few people are killed by a strange creature, it's obvious what it is, which threatens their existence in the town.I admit I am not the target market and I such Twilight fans and teenage girls love this film. I got a New Moon poster with my Empire magazine and I offered it to my 14-year-old half-niece who happily accepted it. I personally don't understand the hate for it though by so sector: I take this view if you don't like it don't watch it, and you can only have a real opinion if you do watch it. It tells a romantic story, not a horror or action story. I would have prefer to see the action/horror story more, but that's my taste.There are good and bad points to this film. I will start with the good. Kirsten Stewart and Robert Pattinson are both very good young actor and do play their roles with conviction. They are both a little too moody, but somehow you are compelled by them. They do play the role like a more realistic young couple, despite the fact one of them is a vampire. There is also a decent supporting cast, like Ashley Greene, Nikki Reed (who is very easy on the eye in this film), Taylor Lautner and Billy Burke. I admit I had low expectations but watching the film I think most of the actors did well. The film also had a very good indie director, Catherine Hardwicke, to direct. She is very good at directing dark themed subject, I personally recommend Thirteen. She films a very darkly lite, moody film. There are some good shots in the film. She plays to her strengths as a director. Other elements I liked was that the high school was simply a normal school; there were no real groups like geeks, jocks, arty types, etc..., nor are all the students thinking about sex or being played as stereotypes. The vampires are not traditional, they can stand in daylight, they can live in normal society without being noticed and be normal characters, and they have a range of abilities as well as traditional things like super strength. The soundtrack is also not bad.But there are problems with the film. It has some slow pacing and some elements, like the high school stuff plays out for too long. The story does focus on the romance, but there should also show the threat from the other vampires attacking the town. They could still have been a romantic story at it's heart, but they should be some sort of adventure to make the story a little more exciting. It just needed a little more action. With a bit of action it would have kept the female audience but also appeal to the male audience as well. The film was also made on a low budget for a film then required special effects and it makes the film suffer. Some elements like Edward climbing the tree, or jumping effort did look cheap and not well done.Some people have complained that the film tells a story of abstinence. So what? It's better then a message telling young girls to give it away easily. Isn't it better to wait for when someone is ready for a relationship? Also the theme of resisting your urges in nothing new in vampire stories. The Blade series is a very good example of them, or the Park Chan-wook film Thirst.Overall, an okay film. It had potential, but could have done more with it. 3 out of 5.
The Millennium Trilogy has been a publishing sensation, selling millions of books and has been adapted into film in its native Sweden. The original film adaptation was one of the most successful Swedish films ever and when Hollywood announced it was going to make their own adaptation there were cries of blasphemy the world over. Then they heard that David Fincher was directing and their opinions quickly changed.Mikael Blomkvist (Daniel Craig) is a disgraced journalist after being sued for libel and his political magazine faces the brink of bankruptcy. He is financially wiped out and his rival the industrialist Hans-Erik Wennerstrom (Ulf Friberg) is out of the kill. At his lowest apt an old industrialist Henrik Vanger (Christopher Plummer) gives Blomkvist an offer he can't refuse, if he finds out what happened to his grand-niece Harriet (Moa Garpendal) who disappeared in 1966 he will pay him four times his yearly salary and more importantly the evidence to bring down Wennerstorm. Lisbeth Salander (Rooney Mara) is a private investigator and hacker who was asked to find out everything she can about Blomkvist. She is also declared mentally incompetent and her new guardian, Nils Bjurman (Yorick van Wageningen) is a sadist rapist. Both Blomkvist and Salander end up working together when it turns out the disappearance of Harriet has lead to a even bigger mystery.The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo is a really entertaining page-turner thriller and is the best written and developed of the whole series. The characters were better developed, particularly the villains and it was good stand alone film. The Swedish original was an excellent film and so is Fincher's version. Fincher makes an even more stylish film with his camera movements, the title sequence and even the editing, making a tense film (even to someone who has read the novel and seen the Swedish version). Fincher has such skill that he make people researching on a computer and in an archive tense and interesting. Fincher makes his version even dirtier and gritty, and seeing that original was a tough watch it. There is a deliberately grim and grimy look, having a grey filter to it and Fincher does not finch with scenes like what happened to Salander after her rape. We slowly see how the mystery is solved and despite its long running time it does not feel like any scene was wasted and fits in most of the book. Some elements like Blomkvist's daughter, Pernilla (Josefin Asplund) actually plays an important role in this version compared to the Swedish version.The casting is great, particularly Rooney Mara as Salander. Lisbeth Salander was one of the most covered roles in Hollywood, with the likes of Emma Watson, Natalie Portman, Mia Wasikowska and Keira Knightley being linked to the role, so it was a massive surprise that Mara got the role. But is was excellent in the role, looking the part. Whilst Noomi Rapace was very good in the Swedish version, she looked a bit too old and her Mara was more like the novel description, short, thin and small breasted. Mara also gets the characteristics right, she avoids eye control, very intelligent, cold and distance. Whilst she is a very anti-social person, she is not quite as spiteful as she is in the books sometimes, only taking out brutal revenge when someone truly wrongs her. This the role that should make her a start.The rest of the cast are also excellent. Whilst it was annoying Craig did not speak in a Swedish accent he was able to over come that because he is such a talented actor, his performance being very natural whether his interaction with his daughter or showing his anger or show or when he scared and being tortured. Craig and Robin Wright seems a more natural couple then Michael Nyqvist and Lena Endre were in the Swedish original and Erika Berger and the troubles of Millennium were actually addressed in this adaptation. Whilst most of that subplot is left in the background it still helps raise the levels of problems and guilt for Blomkvist. I found it weird that the only major Swedish actor in the film, Stellan Skarsgard spoke with an American accent, then what we would think is a Swedish accent. I think that Peter Andersson was a better Bjurman then van Wageningen was but van Wageningen still played him as creepy, sleazy man.This version is not 100% perfect, there are some subplots that are skipped over, like Blomkvist's affair with Cecila, the investigation involving the other members of the Vanger family, Blomkvist going to prison, the death and mention of Salander's mother, that character was combined with Salander's guardian Palmgren (Bengt C.W. Carlsson). The ending was also changed, to give it more of a twist, I personally would have preferred the original ending, but oh well, the basic idea is still the same. But I think that some small thinks like saying that Wennerstrom tried to kill a pregnant woman being cut was a wise move because I think that was a bit much still he was already a man with his fingers in crime and trying to destroy Blomkvist and Millennium when it was down.Trent Reznor and Atticus Ross provide an excellent score and soundtrack to this film, from their version of the Immigrant Song to the intense beats throughout the film. They provide some great music.Fincher's version is a very good adaptation and so is the Swedish version. I like to see them as two different interpretation of the same source then a try remake. No one would bat an eye to a new version of a Shakespeare play or a classic novel, so why should this be different.
Pulp Fiction is great movie, Quentin Tarantino's best. It is multi-layered, having a number of stories involved in the movie. The stories involved in the movie include Vincent (John Travola) and Jules (Samuel L. Jackson) going out on a hit and accidentally killing a man in their car and thereby having to sort of the mess, Vincent having to entertain Mia Wallace (Uma Thurman), taking her to a 50s themed restaurant and ends up taking a heroin overdose and Vincent having to save her life, Butch (Bruce Willis) crossing paths with gangster Marsellus Wallace (Ving Rhames) and end up having to work together and a robbery of a restaurant by a couple which happens at the beginning and the end of the film.Pulp Fiction has many of the traits that make Tarantino such a good writer/director: there great dialogue and humour, there is a number of stories and Tarantino never tells a story straight (this was done in Reservoir Dogs, Jackie Brown and Kill Bill), good casting, violence and a great soundtrack. Tarantino was also not scare to look at some dark plots such as male rape and the underbelly of crime. Because of Pulp Fiction Travola's career got a kickstart (a Simpsons' joke at the time was that Travola was working a 70's themed bar), made Samuel L. Jackson a household name and got him an Oscar and help made the careers of Uma Thurman and Rhames. Because of the way the story is set out Pulp Fiction needs to be watched a number of times, which in my mind normally a good thing because it makes you think and pay attention. It also has good lines in the film, such as the Royale with Cheese conversation and good moments of comedy and dark humour. A moment I really like is when Marsellus Wallace sees Butch in a car whilst he was crossing the road. As well because of the film I have the Fun Loving Criminals' song from the film on my iPod, with the beginning of the film as well.
Alias is a fantastic show. Some people prefer J.J. Abrams other show Lost above Alias, but I think Alias is better. I admit when I first heard the premise for Alias I thought that it was the most stupid thing I every heard, but watching it I saw a brilliant show. The story of the show is Sydney Bristow is a CIA field agent, or so she thinks. She tells her fiancée that she is an agent and he ends up getting murdered. It then she finds out that organisation she was working for (SI-6) was a criminal organisation and she goes to the real CIA to work as a double agent. Alias is a TV version of Bond, they are international locations, gadgets (most realistic or not far from the future), bad guys with aims from criminal and finance to aims of taken over a country or influencing government. They were many story arcs to the show which makes you care for the characters and hooks you into the show. J.J. Abrams also has a good eye for talent. Jennifer Garner was brilliant as Sydney and shows that she is a good actress, better then her husband, Ron Rifkin and Victor Garber were both good stage actors and Abrams got them into the show. Other people have gone to do other things afterwards, Garner is now getting to be a film actress, Greg Gunberg is in Heroes and Terry O'Quien is in Lost as Locke. The show was also able to get A-listers such as Quentin Tarantino, Christain Slater, Djimon Hounsou and David Carradine. The show also has some good ideas on things the CIA possibly do, such as having a list of 10 people who any CIA agent is allowed to kill or using an plane to keep sensitive items permanently in the air. I personally really liked in Alias when they show Sydney change her appearance, for example in the pilot show Sydney dying her hair and trying to look like someone else in a passport. Alias also takes a more moral approach to 24; avoiding using torture unless there is no other option. Sydney avoids it, but her father Jack is more willing to use darker methods. Alias has a great pilot, starting with Sydney getting beaten up by Taiwanese guards and it grows from there. The show also changes in style, in first series episode ends with a cliffhanger, making you want to watch the next one straight away. In the next series episodes ended with a little more closure, making DVD watching a little easier.Alias does have its faults, it does drip in quality slightly after the 3rd Series, I believes its because J.J. Abrams took a back seat and focused on Lost. I also didn't think that the mysticism element quite works with the show, and it becomes more important as he show goes on. But Alias is a brilliant show, with excellent production values and recently in the Top 50 Shows as voted by Empire readers.
24 was one of the most original show I have seen and I thought that it was such a great idea that ever episode was one hour of on day. I believe that the first two series was great television and I loved how it was a action-thriller mixed with the spy genre and looked at the war on terror. This is how I rate the seasons: Series 1: 10/10 Series 2: 10/10 Series 3: 7.5/10 Series 4: 8.5/10 Series 5: 7.5/10 Series 6: Haven't seen so I can't fairly judge. It was a very fun show and has suggested ideas that seem realistic, but has been silly at time, but I don't mind. This is television that can rival modern cinema. Kiefer Sutherland is well cased as an Jack Bauer, an anti-Bond like figure and at times an anti-hero. There are other good actors in the show, Dennis Haysbert is best as David Palmer, a U.S Senator who becomes President, and I do like Reiko Aylesworth and Carlos Bernard as Michelle Dessler and Tony Almeida. It has also attracted good guest stars as Dennis Hopper and James Cromwell. However the show does have problems. After the creation of the show the concept does become soar and the show makers have to make each series bigger and have more stories and plot twists. This makes the show less and less believable. It has gotten to the point where American has gone through too many Presidents in a short space of time. This is shown from season 4 to season 6. Another problem is the over use of torture and shows it as a short cut to getting information. It makes out that Jack Bauer and other American could withstand the most brutal acts of torture (in Series 2 Jack even dies for a few minutes), whilst Islamic terrorist or mercenaries such as ex-marines suffer some a couple of minutes of psychical abuse and break easily. I believe that Islamic extremists and mercenaries would have been trained up to withstand torture and would take months to break and that Islamic extremists would never betray their ideology. It also doesn't show that torture could be used to get information that people would want and not what they need. My own political viewpoint is that torture should never be used and that we need to show that we are better then terrorists. My final complain is that L.A. is also attacked and that CTU also has some sort of mole in the organisation. I think that it would be highly unlikely that an organisation like CTU could get some many moles without heads rolling. I know that L.A. is a major American city but I would have thought terrorists would attack other major cities like New York and Washington D.C. The best example was the end of the Fourth Series it seem like a return to form other the Third Series: however after a Islamic extremist attacked L.A. and California in a number of way they try to nuke the city with an American warhead. I would have thought that after attacking that city I would have thought that the terrorist would want to take out American's political capital or financial centre.24 is a good show, especially if you are like me and enjoy action-thrillers and the spy genre. If you are a right-wing Republican you possibly have a massive orgasm over this program, whilst everyone else watches the show with a pitch of salt.
I have stated this before but I'll state it again: Japan makes some of cinema in the world. As well, most of the world trend to be a lot better at making horror films compared to the Americans, which is too reliance on slasher films.The premise of the Ring is there is a videotape which when another watches it they will receive a phone call telling them they only have a week to live, and guess what: after a week they die. When four teenagers from Tokyo watch the video and die on the same day television journalist Reiko Asakawa (Nanako Matsushima) investigates it. She has a personal stake because one of those victims was her niece. She is a single mother, with a young child, but her works makes her life a juggling act. When investigating the cast she goes to Izu providence, just south of Tokyo and finds in the cabin the teenagers stayed in the tape. She watches it and receives a phone call afterwards. It before a race against time to figure out the mystery of the tape, and she enlist the help of her ex-husband Ryuji Takayama (Hiroyuki Sanada). Matters take even more urgency when they son watches the tape.It's a simple premise, but that's what you need in horror films. Unlike some horror films which rely on violence to get their message across, Ring has little violence. The director Hideo Nakata took a much more subtle approach, which was the right way to go. He did go for direct scares and it works. As well Nakata took great care about getting the atmosphere right, which is very important. It made you believe in the film and the characters. A nice light touch was making a film seem a little scratchy, like an old tape/film, adding to the film.Ring is creepy, and that's what you need.
German director Werner Herzog is known as one of masters of cinema, making documentaries and feature movies about many different subjects. One of his early films that is also considered one of his best is Aguirre, The Wrath of God.In 1560 the Spanish have conquered the Incan Empire and in Peru an expedient lead by Gonzalo Pizarro (Alejandro Repulles) to find the legendary city of El Dorado has come to a standstill in the middle of the rainforest. Pizarro orders a small expeditionary team to go up river, led by Don Pedro de Ursua (Ruy Guerra), with Lope de Aguirre (Klaus Kinski) as his second-in-command. But Aguirre quickly mutinies and promises the men fame, land and riches. But Aguirre shows his true colours as a madman and a brutal leader who is willing to lead his men to disaster for the sake of his delusions and lush for wealth and power.Aguirre, The Wrath of God is an art-house film, but it tells a straight forward story that is not bogged down by symbolism or plot cul-de-sacs. Herzog does use the film to explore some ideas of classism, slavery and the absurdities of early modern politics and society. We see how power corrupts, as we see Aguirre use every trick to keep in control and how power, or the illusion of power turned nobleman Don Fernando de Guzman (Peter Berling) who tried to be decent ruler, keeping order and peace within the fractious group, but soon accepts the trappings of power, demanding excess when his men are suffering.The men embark on a rough and tough journey into one of the environment known to man, with a hostile, unseen enemy constantly around them, becoming more surreal as they progress. Francis Ford Coppela has stated that Aguirre, The Wrath of God was an influence on Apocalypse Now and you can see that with how their journeys pan out, particularly the surrealism. I also saw some of Mel Gibson's Apocalypto being influenced by the film, using a simple story to explore wider themes and a particular scene being when Aguirre and the men find a village of cannibals. It is a maddening trip which tracks it toll on the men physically and mentally.Kinski gave an intense performance and combined with his creepy look he was a menacing presence throughout the film: he was the highlight of the film. The whole cast was strong throughout and Herzog gives many of the other characters their moments, forcing on the slaves, their backstories and their dreams. There is a term of the workers and the slaves having better survival skills then their leaders. I admit it was weird to see actors dressed as conquistadors but speak German, but then I think how would a foreign audience feel about seeing a British or American film about their culture or history.Aguirre, The Wrath of God was shot on location and as expected the cinematography was fantastic, showing the beauty but also the harshness of the rainforest. Herzog had to use a really small crew during, so he had use a lot of still and long shots: but it works to the films advance, particularly for the actors who could give unbroken performances. There was also a really good steady cam shot when the men storm a village. Herzog does immerse the audience into the rough world of the South American jungle with all the mud and the rough waters and he does a lot with scenes with no dialogue. He can illustrate this world easily.Aguirre, The Wrath of God is a very good film and it clear why people do adore it. Its strength are its acting, visuals, directional and using a simple story to use to explore wider themes and ideas. It is an example of thoughtful filmmaking and how an art-house film should be made that can appeal to a wider audience. It is also a great example of the determination of a filmmaker who has an idea and despite what happened make sure his film is made.
In recent years filmmakers outside Hollywood have had access to technology and skilled people to supply good CGI for their films. We have seen films like District 9, Skyline, Monsters and Cloverfield (technically a Hollywood film but it had a low budget). Add to this is the rise of the found footage genre, expanding from the horror genre to sci-fi and comedy. The Norwegian film Troll Hunter attempts to be a found footage monster movie, very much like Cloverfield.In the rural Norwegian wilderness three student filmmakers, Thomas (Glenn Erland Tosterud), Johanna (Johanna Mørck) and Kalle (Tomas Alf Larsen) are making a documentary about bear hunting and found a suspected bear poacher, Hans (Otto Jespersen). After following him around the countryside the trio discovers that Hans is actually a troll hunter, working for a secret government agency to keep the troll population under control and prevent the public from finding out their existence. Hans argues to let the students film and interview him as he stops trolls and discover what illness the trolls are suffering.The found footage genre is a tough nut to crack. They are cheap to make but they can be very dull and self-indulgence. Films in the genre can be very divisive, including Troll Hunter itself. I personally enjoyed. I will get some negative out of the way, its pacing can be slow, there are lots of scenes of the characters simply driving, it is a movie that relies on explanation then showing the audience and it felt more like a series of events then an overall narrative.But overall Troll Hunter is a solid and enjoyable film. The use of the faux documentary setting of students making a film felt a lot more natural than most of the settings used for found footage. The cast were very strong in their roles, being very believable, particularly Jespersen as Hans. Jespersen plays a world weary man who becomes resentful of the job: he does a gruelling, lonely job with little reward and giving him a lot of demons. Sadly we don't get to find out much of the students who follow him. The special effects were very strong considering the low budget, being well designed and the final sequence was dramatic as Hans tries to kill a 200ft Troll and has a great moment as the troll walked over the van. It is clear that the film makers wanted to make an interesting specie, trying to explain how they function, formed into sub-species and are treated like they are animals: why they are able to smell the blood of Christian men is a bit silly though.Now this is going to be a big SPOILER: I personally actually like the idea that there is a disease affecting the trolls and it is rabies. Thomas gets inflected early on and it would be a massive cliché for him to not tell one/no one is aware he is ill and he say turns into a troll. It was better that he was inflected by real disease and made for a more interesting dynamic and gives the film more drive.Troll Hunter is an interesting film and it is solid addition to the monster movie and unique take on the genre. It is also one of the better found footage films of recent time. Hopefully more filmmakers can use strong effects in non-Hollywood films.7.5/10
World War II has been put to film a number of times in many different countries, but there are not nearly enough World War I films. Steven Spielberg set out to redress the balance giving us War Horse, an adaptation of a children's book and the play of the same name.Albert Narracott (Jeremy Irvine) is a young man living in Dartmoor in 1914. His father (Peter Mullan) buys a thoroughbred horse when he should have plough because of his rift with his landlord (David Thewlis). Albert is able to break in the horse who he names Joey and he shows to be a very special horse, strong, determined, loyal and intelligence. But when World War I breaks out, Joey is sold to a British office, Captain Nicholls (Tom Hiddleston) and during the course of the conflict the horse see all aspects, from a Calvary horse, in rural civilian life for a French girl suffering Hollywood's disease (i.e. they say she is dying but seems perfectly healthy), as a German work horse and in no man's land.Spielberg has a good track record making historical films with Schindler's List, Saving Private Ryan and Empire of the Sun. War Horse is a solid film rather then being a great film. It is a film that is rich in period detail, showing the brutal nature of World War I, from the effects of chemical warfare and you feel the muddy, dirty environment as horses pull a giant artillery battery up a hill and Spielberg knows how to make a mundane scene of a horse ploughing a field exciting and emotional (it must be the most boring village in the world for watching a horse ploughing to be considered entertainment). But at the same time there are also some problems, particularly Spielberg's reliance on cutesy humour, from a goose who chases people to a scene in the trenches. I would not be surprise if Richard Curtis was partially responsible. The film is too long and many scenes could have been shorten or cut, particularly in the beginning. I think the relationship and love between Albert and Joey could have easily have been done in half the time.It was a great idea of using a horse to show the horrors of war and the different perspectives of war. It is a great opportunity to show that they are good guys and bad guys on both sides of the war. There is some success in that in the German army privates are show to be decent caring people to the horse, but the officer core and sergeants were very harsh and cruel. Compare it to the British officers who are noble, if a little arrogant or cocky, but there are hints in one of the officers that behind his eagerness that in reality he was scared of the prospect of going to war for the first time. I would have wanted to see more of a mixed picture within all sides of the war and try to give more depth to the characters.There is a great cast in War Horse, we have emerging talent like Hiddleston and Benedict Cumberbatch who in their small roles show they are going to be big actors (well more so), new talent like Irvine who was excellent, playing his character like Sam and Frodo from Lord of the Rings and Celine Buckens where the humour works best. Emily Watson was also brilliant as Albert's mother and it great to see in a big film. And of course Joey the horse shows a lot of promise as an animal performer.John Williams also supplies Mr. Spielberg with another great score, fitting for the film and Janusz Kaminski continues with great camera work, from the bright work of Devon in the summer to more grey and dull view of the front line of the war.War Horse is a solid piece of filmmaking. It is typical Oscar bait but it still works as a film and Spielberg is able to make us care for Joey.7.5/10.
Based on the Japanese legend of the 47 ronin who avenged their lord the film version was a massive box-office bomb for Universal as they attempt to make their own version of 300.In Feudal Japan Kai (Keanu Reeves) is an outcast who is taken in by the household of Lord Asano (Min Tanaka). Skilled with a sword Kai is racially abused by his peers. But when Asano is framed for murder and forced to commit seppuku (ritual suicide) his samurais are left masterless, outcasts themselves and Lord Kira (Tadanobu Asano) is set to take over the lord via marriage. It is up to Oishi (Hiroyuki Sanada) to save the land and the princess and has to team up with his old rival Kai to achieve it.Akira Kurosawa this isn't! The costumes are bright and colourful and first time director Carl Rinsch was able to make some sequences look impressive particularly near the beginning. Some of the action sequences were solid, but they were compromised due to the PG-13/12A rating.47 Ronin has a $175 Million budget and it is hard to see where they spend the money. The special effects were weak considering the money, looking very fake and digital. The film had a realistic look so the CGI clashed when set direction compared to 300 which could get away with not so great CGI because it embraced a comic book style. Except for Reeves the cast was made up of Japanese actors, some of them fairly well known but would not command a great price tag.Much of the acting is poor. Many of the actors have the excuse that English is not their first language, though actors like Sanada, Asano and Rinko Kikuchi (the best performer) have been in Hollywood blockbuster. Reeves lives up to his infamous wooden reputation and was a poor lead for the film. He was not a big enough draw for Western audiences and Asian audiences were turned away by the film because a famous Japanese legend was fronted by an North American actor.There was plenty of potential in the story to be either a series epic in the tradition of great Japanese cinema or a fun romp like 300 but the filmmakers wanted to be both, being deadly serious about material while also being pulpy with its fantasy elements of witches, shapeshifting and ghost warriors. Even weirder is the film ends with a dedication to the ronin as if it was a historical film instead of being of a fantasy film: even 300 did not do that and it was based on a known historic event.
Many of Hollywood's biggest comedy stars united for This is the End for one of two comedies about the end of the week. Whilst Edgar Wright's The World's End is the superior film that is consistently funny and action packed flick, This is the End does offer many laugh out loud moments, using more crass and crude humour, having jokes ranging from masturbation, stoner jokes and violent slapstick. Some of the best moments include a trailer for 'Pineapple Express 2', Emma Watson's cameo and discussion between James Franco and Danny McBride over a porn mag. Other jokes are more miss or crude for the such as the demon's man parts. The main stars have excellent chemistry together and had a strong dramatic with Seth Rogan balancing his old friendship with Jay Baruchel who hates LA and his newer friends in the city.If all else fails at least Kevin Hart dies a nasty death.If you enjoy this film then Zombieland and Dogma are worth checking out.7.5/10
After a 23-year wait Oliver Stone has made his first sequel ever to his 1987 film Wall Street. With recent events involving the banking crisis, sub-prime mortgages and toxic debt a film with Gordon Gekko is timely.Set in 2008 just before and during the financial crisis Jacob Moore (Shia LaBeouf) is a ambitious young trader who specialised in investing alternative energy. He lives with Winnie Gekko (Carey Mulligan), who runs a left-wing website and has a hostile relationship with her father, Gordon (Michael Douglas). When Jacob's bank collapses, his mentor and father figure Louis Zabel (Frank Langella) kills himself when he is humiliated by the head of another bank, Bretton James (Josh Brolin). Gordon Gekko starts to predict the impending banking crisis and Jacob turns to the old banker for help. Jacob promises to help Gekko get back in touch with his daughter and Gekko and give Gekko would give the young man the dirt on James. But James promises that he can help Jacob get the investment a company making fusion energy.Gordon Gekko was one of the most iconic characters of the 1980s and one of Douglas most well known roles. He was a symbol of the 80s, about the idea of making a shed lot of money from investing in other businesses. He is a figure of love or hate depending on your views on the stock market and the Reganite economic system. In Wall Street: Money Never Sleeps he is now a antihero, who works with Jacob to bring down the worst elements of the new banking system where debt was sold in a way to avoid 'risk', but really just masking a problem. Douglas really dominates the role and was the key to the film, someone who does get down and dirty but Stone and the writers do try to humanise him. But Gekko is best when he is his old self. Still Douglas is best thing about the film.Stone recruits a good cast: Mulligan, Brolin and Susan Sarandon. But it was LaBeouf who is the star of film. He is obviously trying to show he is more then the star of the Transformers film and he actually starring in a prestige picture. He gives a solid performance and he will properly will become a better actor then Megan Fox (who star is already declining). There were some really good flashes from LaBeouf like when he is upset over Lou's death, but he was wooden at other times. Mulligan gives a very good performance and her American accent was flawless. And well, Brolin has been a strong actor for a years and his performance was good.Stone had an interesting approach to directing this film: the camera work that Rodrigo Prieto used was effective, moving at the camera at just the right time to reflect an emotion or keep a scene of continuity. Some people have complained that Stone should not have put numbers flash on the screen or using split screen but I feel it adds to the sense of the work in a investment bank. Though it was weird in one scene where Jacob takes a phone call in and the person on the other ends comes up as a bubble on top of Winnie's head in a almost cartoon like way. Wall Street: Money Never Sleeps is also a film had to make visual, with a lot of computer graphics being use and the show of how fusion energy would work: making the film look like something from a Saturday morning sci-fi cartoon. Stone also had to add a motorbike chase just to make something more exciting. The film is too long and slow at times, whilst the ending and final third felt rushed, unrealistic and hokey in a typical Hollywood fashion.Stone does try and make banking an interest and it is a good commentary of the banking crisis. But nowadays most stockbrokers are just men and women who stare at figures on a computer screen and trading invisible stocks, not caring or knowing how it affects people. Stone could have shown more about how bankers ended up going to the government for help to allow them to survive and then rewarded themselves with a nice big bonus with public money. Mark Kermode mention that one of the big themes of Wall Street was that there was a conflict between people who made money to people who made thing: in the sequel a similar theme, involving invest in things that involve the lives of people and society to other men and women who just look for a quick buck rather then look at the long term game. It is possible for people to make more money from a long term investment. As a environmentalist I want to see oil company collapse very quickly when alternatives are viable.Wall Street: Money Never Sleeps will mostly appeal to people are interested in economics and banking, but there is enough there for other people.
Before Sam Raimi made the Spider-man trilogy his first foray into superhero filmmaking was his own original creation, Darkman. It was film at the time of when darker, more mature comic book movies were being made and it serve as a template for his later films.Peyton Westlake (Liam Neeson) is a research scientist who trying to make synthetic skin and his lawyer girlfriend, Julie (Frances McDormand) is investigating corruption involving a land deal and construction contracts. But Julie's investigation leads to her becoming a target for mob boss Robert G. Durant (Larry Drake) and his crew attacks Peyton, leaving his horribly burned and presumed dead. But Peyton gets saved by a medical team whose treatment makes Peyton unable to feel pain and have super human strength but also makes him mentally fragile. When Peyton escape from hospital he sets out to get his revenge against Durant, using his synthetic skin and rebuild his relationship with Julie.I have seen the Spider-man series before seeing Darkman and you can certainly see the visual tricks and there similarities between the two. Both employ similar styles, with Raimi using his transitions and flowing camera movements. We get Raimi style montages and the character of Peyton felt very similar to a villain in the Spider-man films, someone who suffers from some of accident and having to go into hiding. Peyton could have been a Spidy villain with his sympathetic back story. Even the score by Danny Elfman has a similar sound to Spider-man.As well as the links to Spider-man, Darkman does have a pulpy, 1930s feel, similar to other films with the period: this is particularly the case because of the gangsters and the way they are dress. Yet the film is still set in its contemporary setting. Also adding to the 1930s is Raimi's referencing of classic horror films, particularly Frankenstein as Peyton walks in the rain bandaged up and an organ heavy music playing in the background.Whilst Darkman has a B-Movie quality through with a bit of a dark humour twist, it also employs a storyline similar to Yojimbo and A Fistful of Dollars as Peyton infuriate the gang and it is done effectively as Peyton is able to make masks to cover himself. It was clever as Peyton researches the gang and it is played naturally as Peyton learns about the gang.In the UK has an 18 rating, which means I was expecting a fully violence exploitation fest. But besides from the scene where we see Peyton getting burned most of the violence is cutaway away or far typical. If it was rated now it would get a 15 rating now.Darkman is a solid attempt at making an adult superhero film. Its pacing is quick, but some of the special effects have not aged well, the greenscreen effects were particularly bad. It was also surprisingly lacking in action, the big set pieces being in the beginning and the final third which has a fine battle in an abandoned factory which turns to a good old fashioned helicopter chase which people clearly would have died in.Darkman is an entertaining film that should please Raimi fans. It is certainly worth a look if you like the Spider-man films, want to see a superhero film with a dark edge or a vigilante film with a twist.
Dark version of popular fairy tales has become filmmaking idea, with films like Alice in Wonderland, Snow White and the Huntsman and Oz: The Great and Powerful being bit hits. Disney has now made a live-action version of Sleepy Beauty, focusing the villain Maleficent.Angelica Jolie takes on the title role: the producers begged her to play Maleficent and she was the best feature of this fantasy film. She gave a committed performance and was best at bringing out the fiery fury of Maleficent. The best scene in the film was the Christening scene when Maleficent wants revenges against the main that betrayed her and King Stefan (played by District 9's Sharlto Copley) begging her not to curse his new born daughter, giving his character some depth. Robert Stromberg, the production designer of films likes Avatar and Oz and the Great and Powerful makes his directional debut and it shows. The costumes, particularly of the army and the castle set design is excellent and Oscar worthy, but the CGI is sub-par for a big budget fantasy film and the creature designs were downright terrible. Stromberg and writer Linda Woolverton were taking an approach of being a dark fantasy and mixing in annoying comedy shtick by the three pixies who are totally hopeless. The action was solid enough but it affected by a strange zoom effect which annoying and out of place.Maleficent was an underwhelming experience that wasted potential with an under written plot and characters and poor direction. A real disappointment.
Based on a Manga series by Hideo Yamamoto Ichi the Killer is a well renounced cult hit and controversial because of its bloody violence. It is a very required taste of a film.In the Japanese underworld a major boss disappears and his loyal sadomasochistic lieutenant Kakinada (Tadanobu Asano) sets out to find out what happened to him, torturing his way to the truth. On the way Kakinada clashes with his Yakuza bosses as a gang conflict starts to happen. Unknown to the Yakuza their bane is a traumatised man called Ichi (Nao Omori) who is lead by Jijii (Shinya Tsukamoto) to get rid of the bullies who picked on Ichi.Takashi Miike is a director known for challenging Uwe Boll for prolificacy, but unlike Dr. Boll, Miike is considered talented. Miike does have a very distinctive style, using a lot freeze frames during the beginning and using hand-held cameras. There is one delicious scene when Kakinada and Karen (Alien Sun) go into run down apartment building to a drug dealer's apartment where the camera follows the pair to Kakinada torturing the dealer. Some of the violence is a very brutal and inventive, particularly when Kakinada is torturing a Yakuza boss and results in a funny dark joke. Ichi the Killer is a visually striking film with it uses of colours and camera styles.But Ichi the Killer is an a very disjointed and confusing film, not know quite what it wanted to be, who to focus on and does the cardinal sin of not giving us any a likable character. Of course some films can get away with it but that is the exception rather then the rule. You did not know who the follow, who was who or even what type of film Ichi the Killer was trying to be; was it a crime film, a psychological thriller, a violence horror or a really dark comedy. It was a mix-match. Even the violence ranged from really grim, unconformable and sadistic torture scene involving hooks and boiling oil being poured over a man's back and head, a scene which need a really strong stomach, to the juxtaposition of other violence being very cartoonry looking and makes similar scenes in Kill Bill look restrained.Asano's character is basically The Joker: he dresses in purple suits, has bright blonde hair, is a sadistic torturer who is creative with his techniques and has a dark scene of humour. He is a major crime figure, rules his gang with an iron fist, has a massive Chelsea grin and uses sewing needles as a weapon. It was more of a distraction then anything else.The score at times can be over bearing as well. Considering the type of film it is I would not expect a traditional orchestral score and a techno score is more fitting. But at times it overshadowed the action on the screen and did not fit with what was happening, particularly an early scene with a very heavy percussion base to it.Ichi the Killer is just an ultra-violence slog which is not as fun as it should have been and set in a moral vacuum. It was a confusing mess of film and there are better films from the Far East in this genre, Battle Royale and Oldboy come quickly to.
With the success of Transformers in 2007 and the popularity of the G.I. Joe series in America, the bigwigs at Paramount saw fit to commission a G.I. Joe film. But this was a project that was met by production problems, constant re-writing, leaked pictures of the costume designs which were called cheap looking and rumours that there were re-shoots with the director being replaced.In the near future Weapons' Industrialist James McCullen (Christopher Eccleston) had created a new nanotechnology weapon which could eat through metal and had support from NATO to create it. American Special Forces were assigned the mission to escort the new weapon, led by Duke (Channing Tatum) and Ripcord (Marlon Wayans). After an unsuccessful attempt by a terrorist organisation to steal the world Duke and Ripcord are recruited by General Hawk (Dennis Quaid) to joint the Joes, a multi-national team of special forces operatives who are the best of the best. There include weapon specialist Heavy Duty (Adewale Akinnuoye-Agbaje), super-intelligent Scarlett (Rachel Nichols), technical expert Breaker (Saïd Taghmaoui) and of course a ninja, Snake Eyes (Ray Park). But the nano-warheads are stolen by The Baroness (Sienna Miller) and her ninja friend Storm Shadow (Lee Byung-hun) under the order of McCullen. Its up to the Joes to stop the plans of this new, powerful organisation.With a budget of $175 Million it was money poorly spend. The acting is terrible, the action average, CGI that was on par with films from the mid-90s and despite its rewrites, barely has a plot. The cast was made up with actors who are not A-List stars. Tatum is at best seen as an up-and-coming actor; but he is very much in the model of Hayden Christensen: your looks come before your acting ability. He was bad in it and once his looks fade his career will as well. This is not the film that will make him into a star. The producers claim Wayans was cast because of his performance in Requiem for a Dream. That was a lie because he was cast as weak comic relief: but he was still funnier then he was in the Wayans brothers films. Quaid was really bad and whilst Eccleston did try hard, this is no the film to capitalise on his Doctor Who fame. Sienna Miller was very easy on the eye and she did seem to have fun in the film, but she is still only good in Layer Cake. It was also weird to hear Akinnuoye-Agbaje with his natural English accent. He really did not try hard in G.I. Joe and is better playing African characters. The only actor who came out the film with any merit was Joseph Gordon-Levitt who played a sinister supporting villain who becomes important later on.As started the action was average. There were some decent moments, but nothing really fresh or exciting. The CGI was poor and the film did not come up with anything new with it's set designs and just recycled sci-fi ideas: like the invisible suit was a cross between Harry Potter's invisibility clock and the invisible car from Die Another Day and the sound blasting weapons were pretty much lifted from Minority Report and the plot involving metal eating nanos was very similar to a cartoon episode I once saw. Stephen Summers is an gun-for-hire type director. He does know how to deliver an entertaining film, the Mummy being the best example. He basically delivers dumb-fun. But G.I. Joe was particularly stupid, with a plot that was pretty much lifted from a cartoon, with designs to match. It may work in a cartoon but does not work in live-action. One scene was even taken from Team America but done seriously rather then comic.The script was poor! The very basic plot could have worked well, a mad industrialist planning to fire 3 powerful missions at Washington DC, Moscow and Beijing. But it was done in the worst possible way. The film at times was almost like Team America, the serious live-action version, such as the raid on the base and the chase in Paris. The way the film was handled would only appeal to 9-year-old boys who would quickly forget about it when their grow up. GI Joe has also suffered from politics. In the 80s because of the aftermath of Vietnam the cartoon makers decided to make out GI Joe fights against a group of evil mercenaries instead of typical American enemies like Communists. Because of the Iraq War and the un-American feeling towards Bush the filmmakers decided to make the film a sci-fi type film, with the characters not even in traditional military gear. But audience's politics often don't affect their cinematic choice and smart enough to know not to treat films like G.I. Joe and Live Free and Die Hard too seriously. Transformers had a lot of backing from the American military and it was a massive hit. The film also suffered from silly ways how the team finds people and solves situations, such as how the Joes find out where McCullen's base was or the use of a voice-activated weapons system. There are silly things that would only work in a cartoon, like the nano-robots in mind-controlled soldiers and how they were used to do pretty much anything. The film was also filled with plot-holes, clichés and terrible dialogue throughout. The characters, particular General Hawk just spoke in clichés. GI was one of the worst blockbusters in 2009 in a year that was weak for blockbusters.
Apocalypto is Mel Gibson's best directed film, but considering I hated Braveheart and the Passion of the Christ, it's not saying much from me.Apocalypto is film based on the decline of the Mayan empire in the 16th Century. The film starts showing the life of people in a small village in the jungle, showing the men hunting and the women taking care of the village and the children. However, the village is destroyed after a raid by warriors who kill and kidnap most of the villagers. The people who are kidnapped are forced on a gruelling march to the main city. Once they arrive at the city the villagers discovery that it was suffering from famine and disease. Many people were dead or dying. The city's elders try to solve the crisis by doing a number of public sacrifices. However, one of the villages, Jaguarpaw, was able to escape and goes back to the village to save his wife and child. But he is also being chased by the warriors.Apocalypto is typical of Gibson's work, it is very violence, but he able to tone it down a little since the over the top violence in Passion of the Christ. The history that it is based on is very dubious. The story itself is simple but is based on a controversial theory about the fall of the Mayans. The film is not a masterpiece, but it's alright.I personally think those that Mel Gibson has a list of groups he wants to insult. He properly went that the English, the British as a whole, the Jews, ooo the Mayans. I wouldn't be surprised that his next film project would either be a bio-pic of Hitler in a sympathetic light or Stalin the Musical.
After four novels and five films The Twilight Saga has ended. It is a series that has its fans but also people who hate it so much that they irrationally explode in rage. The Twilight Saga: Breaking Dawn Part 2 is the best received movie on IMDb with a 5.6 rating at the time of this review. But how does it fare from a person who is neutral towards the series?Three days after the birth of her daughter, Renesmee, Bella (Kristen Stewart) is a powerful new born vampire with fantastic strength, speed and self-control over her thirst. Werewolf Jacob (Taylor Lautner) is also no longer an issue because he is now imprinted on Renesmee and will fight to the death to protect her. But with all these changes Bella's dad (Billy Burke) has to be made aware of her change and Renesmee being a half-vampire, half-human child she ends up growing at a rapid rate being a nine year old child in months. The Volturi see Renesmee as a threat to their way of life and as an opportunity to destroy the Cullens. The Cullens go around the world to get allies to convince the Volturi that Renesmee is not a threat. Breaking Dawn is the novel that even Twilight fans are critical about and the first 30 minutes seems to very self-aware about the whole series involving Bella not needing to break Edward, their sex, the lunacy of a man being in love with a baby and when Jacob strips off and reveals he is really a werewolf to Bella's dad. Then we fall into the usual melodrama and like the previous films introduces to interesting ideas but are not fully explored: this time the idea of immortal children who are never grow up mentally and therefore can never control their thirst and the hint of an old conflict between the Volturi and an Eastern European Medieval order who were much more open about their vampirism.When we get to see the order vampires we see that they have a wide range of powers that make they look like the mutants from X-Men. We are introduced to a number of vampires during this film and we only get to see know a few of them. I expect we get to know more about them in the books but we only really know the characters through stereotypes: the Russian vampires spoke with comically bad accents. But the CGI is still terrible and cheap looking, resulting with a very creepy looking baby.The final action sequence is the best in the series; it nothing to write home about but it is serviceable and last longer then two or three minutes. But Breaking Dawn Part 2 ends with a big cop out and has a massive deus ex machina. The whole thing felt a bit fanfictty and lazy as the writers did not want to upset anyone.The Twilight Saga already tackled necrophilia and bestiality, now it has paedophilia under its belt. But because of the ridiculous nature of how it accurses the film actually acknowledges this and makes fun of it and does not show it as an romantic relationship: that would have been too weird.Twilight has never been a showcase for acting and Breaking Dawn Part 2 is the same. But Lautner is surprisingly decent and it is easily the best performance I seen him give. But Stewart was the weak link in the cast this time round, having a very stiff delivery.Breaking Dawn Part 1 was the weakest entry in the series but Bill Condon does a better with follow-up: it is much faster paced and he does have some visually interesting sequence, particular the flashback to the immortal children and the film does not flinch from showing a child's death and number of decapitations. But vampires do seem surprisingly easy to kill, especially in since the first film made it out that it is very difficult to destroy a vampire. Breaking Dawn Part 2 also has an improved music score and it is the best the series has to offer, using a bit of chorus music which I have a soft spot for.Breaking Dawn Part 2 ranks dead in the middle of the series: Twilight and Eclipse are better, but New Moon and Breaking Dawn Part 1. The series should go down as forgetting then anything that is truly awful. I would like to see what would happen if a good writer was able to develop the basic ideas that the series has introduced because they is more potential then what the series was offered.
There are films that are released with hopes for Awards glory, setting for weighty subjects and recruiting established actors and directors. But some of these films fail to impress critics and disappoints at the box-office: Lions for Lambs was one of them. It is a shame because anyone who is interested in politics, the media and the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan will properly like this film (unless you are a Right-wing Republican).Lions for Lambs tells stories based in just over an hour. One is set in Washington when a young ambitious Republican Senator, Jasper Irving (Tom Cruise) has an interview with Liberal journalist Janine Roth (Meryl Streep) about his new strategy in Afghanistan to take the mountain tops and tries to ensure his own narrative is put across to the American people. Two Junior Special Forces officers Arian (Derek Luke) and Ernest (Michael Pena) are assigned to take one of the mountains but when their helicopter is shot and the two men are trapped, with Taliban insurgents surrounding them. The third story focus on a University Professor, Stephen Malley (Robert Redford) trying to raise out to an intelligence but disaffected student Todd (Andrew Garfield) and tells him the story of Arian and Ernest.Lions for Lambs is based on famous saying about British army during World War One, lions led by donkeys. The film is trying to evoke that politicians and the public are two distance from the realities of war and that many people are guilty: politicians trying to use war and the military for their own purposes, the media lack of willingness to question the government and political apathy from the public is the worst enemy for democracy and how politicians try and use it. I agree with many of the films points, like that the media never questioned why we went into Iraq. I personally believe the reason why Afghanistan is such a mess now and why the Taliban and Al-Qaida is now stronger is because Bush dropped the ball, going into Iraq despite a lack of a legitimate reason. Republicans forced through because they launched a campaign of fear, claiming anyone who did not support their messages they are not patriotic which is laughable if it wasn't so serious. People who question what the actions government is simply part of a healthy democratic process, regardless of their political persuasion. Republicans usually get away with a lot more then Democrats in America, and I remember how the Republicans hijacked traditional American symbols like the stars and strips. Bush and American politicians stated wearing the American flag badges on their lapels but I remember an American comedian saying on Mock the Week that Bush needed it to remind him what country he was running: 'I'm speaking to you as the president of eh America!'. There are also ideas that politicians in America have not learn from history, following the same mistakes in Vietnam, trying to copy the Roman Empire and not thinking about investing in the nation's education and infrastructure. There also elements about the dumbing down of the media, focusing on celebrity news and rating then important stories like war. There is a lot to sink your teeth into in an 80 minute package.The screenplay is written by Matthew Michael Carnahan, a talented guy, writing The Kingdom and co-writing State of Play. The Kingdom was seen as a conservative take on the war on terror and that Lions for Lambs is a liberal perspective. He obviously knows the argument that both sides use and he makes an intelligent film. He could have easily have made the Republican senator been made into a cartoon villain, but Carnahan and Cruise give the character a lot of charisma, depth, intelligence and occasionally argues a good point. But the screenplay is dialogue heavy and not for people who have no interest in politics. There is a lack of visuals from the director Robert Redford, with most the action indoors with characters talking to each other. It would have been better if it was shot like either the West Wing or like Hunger which embraced it's stage play like script. Redford did get excellent performances out of his actors and there is a lot anger behind the film which a similar film, W. lacked. Redford is good on details like the pictures in the Senator's office, giving us an insight in his background. But the filmmakers could have shown some more grander images, like a major speech by the Senator, the war strategy going wrong, a typical family not paying attention to the war or an election. The story about the University professor with the student also did not seem to fit as well as the rest of the film.The battle scene on the mountain scene was so poorly lit that it was hard to see anything. Cinematographer Philippe Rousselot has done better work in the past and should have used some lights.There is excellent acting from the film. Cruise gives an excellent performance and shows he can be a very good actor. Streep is one of the few darling in Hollywood and can be nominated for an Oscar if a film gets decent critical reaction. She gives a good, believe performance as an journalist rediscovering her idealistic roots, but an interesting dynamic could have been to make out she was not a liberal at all, but politically neutral or a mild conservative, that the American media is not all liberal. The other actors were solid throughout the film and Garfield shows potential, but I don't know how he can play a university student in 2007 and be a high school student in Spider-man in 2012?A fine political film.
The summer of 2009 has offered nothing by poor blockbusters. Public Enemies is so refreshing, a mature film for grown ups.The 1930s were a poor time to be around, The Great Depression was in full swing, unemployment was high and fascism in Europe was on the rise. It was also a poor time to be a lawman or bank employee in the Mid-West of America. The 1930s was a time were America had high profile bank robbers. One of the most famous was John Dillinger (Johnny Depp). He was thorn in the side of American law enforcement and became public enemy number 1. He you going between states to avoid being arrested. But Dillinger was a popular, Robin Hood like figure who only robbed the banks, not the people. He terrorise banks in Chicago and Indiana and frees his crew from public. The director of the FBI J. Edgar Hoover (Billy Crudup) was lobbying Congress for more funding and give the FBI more power via the Crime Bill. Congress rejects the proposals and so Hoover starts a media campaign. He declares America's 'first war on crime' and names John Dillinger his big target. He is obviously playing politics. He makes G-Man, Special Melvin Purvis (Christian Bale), the head of the Chicago Field Officer and more importantly find and arrest Dillinger. Purvis aims to bring scientific and professional methods into crime investigation. In the middle of all this Dillinger finds romances with Billie Frechette (Marion Cotillard), a half native-American cloakroom girl from Chicago. A similar sub-plot to what happen Robert De Niro in Heat.Michael Mann is an excellent director but had recently had a dip in form with Miami Heat. He is back with a winner, directing excellent actors, story and action with this film. He directs with style and flair and does fancy tricks which show that style can add substance. He directs excellent action set pieces with instance camera work, and doesn't overuse shaky cam. He also gets a good feel for the 1930s. He keeps the story going for the most part, but the film does drag occasionally. Mann also leaves it ambiguous on who is the hero and villain of the film. Johnny Depp is excellent as the charismatic John Dillinger and easily the best performer in the film. He is an early contender for best actor for when award season comes around. Christian Bale offered a good performance, but his character does lack depth and disappears when he is not around. Marion Cotillard is a good actress and does well in the film, she even has a good American accent. Billy Crudup was also fine and slimy as J. Edgar Hoover and was last seen being big, blue and naked.Public Enemies is flawed, but is one of the better films of 2009.
Peeping Tom is a renounced classic of horror cinema, but very controversial on its release, pretty much ending Michael Powell's career as a director. It was a film a head of its time.Mark Lewis (Carl Boehm) is a focus puller at a film studio and aspiring director who takes his 8mm camera everywhere he goes. He is a quiet, shy man who lives alone, has few friends and was a victim of his father's psychological experiments. But Mark is a serial killer and wants to make documentary about his activities.Peeping Tom is a certainly a bold film for time and it easy to see why it was controversial when it was first released. Powell keeps a very creepy atmosphere throughout the film, amplified by Boehm's performance, giving his character a quiet, softly spoken demeanour and it was an uneasy experience to be around it.Peeping Tom has a very voyeuristic look, a deliberately choice, particularly when see the murders through the camera. This is a film about obsession and it is even more poignant now due to the information age we live where we have 24 hour media, Youtube, social media and mini-cameras and phone cameras. This is a film that has many themes during the running time, focusing on obsession of death and pain, fear, the growing use of technology, the efforts of someone having in private life and how a serial killer would function, as well as some satire about the British film industry.It is always difficult to make a film focusing on a unlikeable character, but Powell and Boehm make it work due to the complexities of Mark's character. Mark was a man who was a victim of his father who tortured him as a child in the name of intelligential pursuit and this is a film that tries to be more grounded with its look at a serial killer: he is not a man who seems to take pleasure from his actions and does it out of compulsion. He cannot even be away from his camera. This is also a film that shows a serial killer need to keep trophies. Yet at the same time Powell never justifies what Mark does.Peeping Tom is of course an important film due to its subject matter and its style, particularly the POV approach and it a compelling psychological-thriller/horror-thriller. It is classic it deserves to be and it shame that Powell did not get to it.
If a children/young adult novel has an sort of success it is bound to be made into a film. Examples are the Harry Potter series, The Chronicles of Narnia, Northern Lights (AKA The Golden Compass), the Spiderwick Chronicles, Bridge to Terabithia and the Twilight Saga. Some can be very good, like Harry Potter, whilst others ruin the original novel, i.e. the Golden Compass. City of Ember was a popular book with the potential for sequels, however because of it's poor box-office return that's unlikely.In the future humanity is forced to live in an underground city known as Ember. The mayor of the city is responsible for a box that has a time lock on it of 200 years. When the box opens it should give the people of the city instructions to get back to the surface where the world because that is when it should be safe. But the box ends up getting lost and opens without anyone knowing. Ember ends up being a city in delay. There are blackouts that are getting longer and longer, food shortages and the water pipes keep leaking with only patches-ups as repairs. In this dying city are two young teens who have just been assigned for their first jobs, Doon Harrow (Harry Treadaway) and Lina Mayfleet (Saoirse Ronan). Doon believes he is the one who could repair the generator but ends up being assigned as a messenger. Lina want to be a messenger but is assigned to the pipeworks. Both swap positions but find the city is getting worst. Lina by chance finds the box and the friends have to work together to put the puzzle together and save the citizens before the corrupt Mayor Cole (Bill Murray) can stop them.There is a excellent cast, Bill Murray is normally a good actor and despite his strange appearance plays his role rather straight. Liz Smith is in the film and whilst she is normally a comic actress also plays her role fairly straight. Tim Robbins is in the film in a small role as a Doon and weirdly looks a like an older version of Kiefer Sutherland. Saoirse Ronan is a raising talent, having been in Atonement and the Lovely Bones, and she offers enthusiasm and a good American accent. However, I don't know why Toby Jones was cast in such a small role. As well as the cast the film does have an interesting look with the city in decline, with people in fear with what's happening. It also shows how an authoritarian leader could use the fear for his own advantage and keep himself secure in his position. This is a city where most of the people are so busy keeping themselves alive that they don't even have time for political thought.But the film's writing and direction lack any real inspiration. The director Gil Kenan was making his first live action film: his previous experience was the animated film Monster House. There are some decent CGI sequences, but he lacked a real flair. His direction was run-in-the-mill and it felt like he just wanted to get to the next plot point as quickly as possible. The city and the idea of Ember was also much like Zion in the Matrix sequels. The screenplay was written by Caroline Thompson, Tim Burton's collaborator, but she was really writing a film about a lot of puzzles. It wasn't that interesting and was really a bunch of set-pieces. As well some elements of the film felt a bit camp, like the Grand Day of Singing. It affected the film's internal reality.It's not bad, but it could have been a lot better, especially with the talented actors in the film.
When How to Train Your Dragon was released into cinemas it's first weekends box-office was disappointing, but thanks to positive reviews and good word of month it had staying power and was a very successful film for Dreamworks.On the island of Berk the Viking population have a dragon pest problem with the reptiles stealing their livestock. On resident on the island is Hiccup (Jay Baruchel) is a disrespected blacksmith who has an reputation for being a clut and he sets out to prove himself by killing the most dangerous dragon breed of all, the Night Fury. He is able to bring one down with his inventions but when he finds it he is unable to kill it. His father and the chief of the village Stoick the Vast (Gerald Butler) goes on a mission to find the dragons' island to stop them once and all and gets his friend Gobber the Belch (Craig Ferguson) to train Hiccup with the other teens on the island for Dragon Hunting training. But Hiccup finds the Night Fury on the island, befriends him and studies the creature, using what he learns to ease through training. But most of all, with his new friend Toothless discovers that dragons are not monsters at all.What makes How to Train Your Dragon work is that Dreamworks follows Pixar's model of story and character and not go for an overload of pop-cultural references. This is the story of an outsider who wants to prove themselves to his community and ends up learning and using his knowledge, a good message for children. It is also a story of friendship and we get to believe that Hiccup is a gently soul who wants to help the creature. There is also the old chestnut of a child wanting to prove himself to his father and a father not understanding why their child is so different to what they were.The directors Chris Sanders and Dean DeBlois are both famous for directing Lilo and Snitch and both are from the Disney school of how to make animated movies. But after leaving Disney under bad circumstances they have found a good way to get back at their former employers by making a hit film for one of their rivals. Both men are able to mix action, comedy and tender moments, starting with the village getting attacked. The humour is a healthy balance of child friendly slapstick to witty lines and jokes. The action is well done, from when Toothless is flying, the dragon attack and the dragon hunting training. The animation is top notch, whether it is the details on Toothless or of the world and the well made action sequences.Hiccup is a great voiceless character and the animators did a great job to allow him to express himself, either through his eyes or ear movements. The writers and directors made him out to be a cross between a dog, a cat and a horse in the way he acts. He would be a great pet. Gerald Butcher was pretty much playing King Leondias from 300 and that is why I liked his character, a gruff, tough war leader who is so macho that he can't express his emotions. My one major problem is Baruchel because I do find his voice slightly annoying, playing his character as a stereotypical whiny nerd. He becomes better later on but I found it hard to warm to him straight away.Overall How to Train Your Dragon is a fun fast paced film for children and adults of all ages.
Phase Two of the Marvel Cinematic Universe is nearly at an end and Captain America is set to return to action once again in a very entertaining and satisfying start to the 2014 blockbuster season.Since the events of The Avengers, Steve Rodgers/Captain America (Chris Evans) has become a full member of S.H.I.E.L.D. and is working as a top special forces field operative. During a rescue mission to save hostages from a notorious pirate, Batroc (George St-Pierre), Natasha Romanoff/Black Widow (Scarlett Johansson) retrieves intelligence for Nick Fury (Samuel L. Jackson) regarding Operation Insight, a scheme that allows S.H.I.E.L.D. to have three Helicarriers across the globe. With S.H.I.E.L.D. constantly targeting threats against America, Captain America objects to the morality of this policy and brings it up to Fury. Nick Fury then attempts to examine the intelligence even he does not have clearance and he becomes the target for the mysterious assassin known as the Winter Soldier. Captain America ends up being a public enemy, along together with Black Widow, where they both have to expose an enemy within S.H.I.E.L.D. as they are targeted by the agency.Captain America: The Winter Soldier satisfies both as an action film and being a more complex story than any other films in the Marvel Cinematic Universe. The conspiracy storyline forcing Captain America to go rogue is very much Marvel's version of spy thriller and our hero having to battle a secret internal threat, like Jason Bourne against Tredstone, James Bond versus Quantum and Jack Bauer and rogue elements of the Palmer administration during the second season of 24. Washington D.C. is the main setting for the film and plays a big part of the story due the film taking place in the intelligence world and like Iron Man 3 has a big conspiracy and investigation as a part of its narrative.The Russo Brothers took on the directing for the sequel, who are known for directing episodes for Community and Arrested Development. For the two brothers who come from a comedy background, The Russo's end up making one of the more serious films in the Marvel Cinematic Universe. They successfully cut their teeth with big budget filmmaking, showing confidence by giving us a fast pace adventure, bringing us the Marvel version of a thriller and providing some solid action sequences. Some of the action sequences were shot too closely, in a confined space like a lift or in a ship, not so good during a fist fight in the middle of a city. This was made up for by an action-packed third act as Captain America battle his match and greatly realises the use of Falcon and his flight pack as the camera follows him in the sky. The action for most of the film is based around good old fashioned fist fights, gun battles and chase and there is much raw, grounded feel as Captain America fights the Winter Soldier and highly trained assassins.Many actors joined the cast of Captain America and the Marvel Cinematic Universe. Robert Redford adds a lot of gravitas giving his years of experience and prestige as he plays the villain of the piece. Anthony Mackie as Falcon is always a welcome presence and he allows one of Marvel's minor characters to have his time to shine. Emily VanCamp and Frank Grillo were solid enough in their supporting roles: Grillo was an impressive physical threat in the henchman role and is in really good shape for someone in his early 50s.Captain America: The Winter Soldier has obviously uses the themes of both The Patriot Act to monitor people and the use of drones to attack potential threats and Captain America acts as a critical voice as he starts for real America values of freedom and liberty whilst S.H.I.E.L.D. which has been a more ambiguous force saying these action are used to protect America. While this film was written before the Snowden leaks, it is easy see parallels between real life events of the NSA to the action of S.H.I.E.L.D. When the villain's plot is fully revealed, it shows a more complex, subtle plan raises issues about social control and manipulation and the American Industrial-Military Complex.Captain America: Winter Soldier is a film that stands on its own, servicing as an excellent stand alone event and even more rewarding to experience to fans of the Marvel Cinematic Universe. The Russo Brothers and writers Christopher Markus and Stephen McFeely give fans little Easter Eggs of the wider universe that comic fans will recognise which will not be spoiled here. There are potential set ups for expansions to the franchise and the post-credit scenes whet the appetite for more.Captain America: The Winter Soldier is film that delivers on both the action front and on story. It will please fans of Marvel and fans of action spy genre. It is the best of the Marvel Phase Two films so far.Please visit www.entertainmentfuse.com
The British film industry can be a very strange beast, as it acts as half-way house between Hollywood and Europe and where movies are seen to have the potential to break into the American market. This is certainly the hope for the British action-thriller Welcome to the Punch, which looks impressive, but is filled with many clichés and plot holes.Max (James McAvoy) is a jaded police detective who is after Jacob Sternwood (Mark Strong), a gangster that got away after a bank heist and was shot in the knee. Three years later, Sternwood is forced out of hiding when his son is found shot at the City of London Airport, where Max sees an opportunity to get his man and sparks new life in him. But soon Max, his partner, Sarah (Andrea Riseborough) and Sternwood all end up investigating a conspiracy, involving a soldier turned gun smuggler, Dean Warns (Johnny Harris) and a private security company, all to the backdrop of raising gun crime and the Shadow Home Secretary calling for all British police officers to be armed.Welcome to the Punch is a great looking film, using a harsh blue filters and florescent lighting as it highlights the modern heart of London. Writer/Director Eran Creevy shows great confidence behind the camera and he definitely knows how to film a shootout. The movie starts out with an exciting chase sequence and whilst the fist fights were shot too close and cut too quickly, Creevy is clearly a man with potential. Welcome to the Punch was a very stylised looking film that supplies plenty of solid action and slow-motion. But whilst the action scenes are competently handled, they are not revolutionary either and the best one was the chase sequence at the start of the film.The biggest draw of the movie is its cast, which has some of the best talent Britain has to offer. McAvoy, Strong and Riseborough are all of course very talented and give fine performances, especially Strong who gives his all for the film. Welcome to the Punch also has an excellent supporting cast, having the likes of Tyrannosaur's Peter Mullan and The Walking Dead's David Morrissey, playing pivotal roles and act as the professionals they are.Max and Sternwood have a battle of wits throughout the movie and both men are great tacticians, with instincts to match as they try to outsmart each other. The other major theme playing throughout the movie is revenge as Max has a dogged determination to get Sternwood and make a name for himself, as Sternwood wants to find the people who hurt his son. The duel narrative between the two is balanced extremely well and blended naturally, when their paths cross once again.If there was a major fault of the film, it would have to be the screenplay, which attempts to bring an American style cop thriller to the British landscape. What we get is a film filled with just about every cliché the crime genre has to offer and makes it look like it was made by people who have no idea about how the British police or politics works. I felt like an outsider looking in, as they Americanise the British police system and felt very false. The Home Secretary is highly involved with all of the investigations, when in reality he is a policy maker, he is not involved directly on ground level law enforcement like a District Attorney or Chief of Police. Police procedural fiction is very common in the UK, in the form of TV and novels and we know how the police in this country.We see the clichés of how the Max is distrusted by his direct superior, a conspiracy with corrupt police officers, Max having incredible instincts, that would match Jack Bauer's and yet he's someone that manages to keep his job, after a sackable incident that would a PR nightmare.The plot itself is faulty, as we dig deeper and deeper into the film, throwing new elements and names that when introduced, makes them hard to keep track of. This happens despite the actual plot and conspiracy being extremely simple. What makes the conspiracy worse in the film is when everything is revealed, it exposes massive plot holes and logic questions that you can drive a bus through. The story collapses on itself in the final act and it simply ends up feeling like the plot of a bad Spooks (MI-5 in the US) episode.Welcome to the Punch is a film that contains plenty of flash and professionalism and it looks more expensive than it really is. But the lacklustre story filled with clichés and plot holes makes Welcome to the Punch, a sadly disappointing movie. Cheevy does have plenty of potential as a director, but he may want to step away from writing duties next time.Please visit www.entertainmentfuse.com
When I heard that Oliver Stone was doing a bio-pic about George W. Bush I thought at first it should be a entertaining film about American politics and wouldn't be a flag-waving affair praising Bush.This bio-pic tells the story of the run up to the Iraq War, with the Bush administration trying to find evidence of Weapons of Mass Destruction in Iraq. In flashbacks George W. Bush (Josh Brolin) thinks back on his life, as a frat boy at Yale University, his constant drinking, his relationship with Laura Welch (Elizabeth Banks), and his need to please his father George S. Bush (James Cromwell). Bush Jr's ambition is to work in baseball but his father disapproves. Bush Jr looks for way to please his father, running for Congress, his conversion to New-Born Christianity, working for his father's presidential campaign and running for Governor of Texas. Even his decision to invade Iraq is motivated by his father's approval and sets out to prove his himself. Within the administration their is a fierce debate on whether America should invade Iraq and whether to go through the UN route. Colin Powell (Jeffrey Wright) thinks going into Iraq is a stupid move and wouldn't help in the war on terror (how would attacking a government that al-Qaida hate help beat them?), whilst Dick Cleney (Richard Dreyfuss) and Donald Rumsfeld (Scott Glenn) want to go to war as soon as possible. Powell and the State department power is curtailed and the Defence Department becomes more powerful.This is a well made film, done with style by Oliver Stone. He is a director whom recent career hasn't been so good, making films like Alexander. But as a very politically minded director and he should be a good fit. He is often critical of the American government, whether it is Republican or Democrat. Stone also has form for directing political bio-pic, shooting this film in a similar style to Nixon, with flashbacks. Stone also adds the occasional surreal scene which is a little different. If you are interested in American politics or the run up to the Iraq War then this should appeal to you.The best feature of the film is the cast. Josh Brolin was excellent as George W. Bush, he looks and sounds like the man, and more importantly offers a very convincing performance. Toby Jones was very good as the slimy Karl Rove, and Richard Dreyfuss was very much like James Brolin in his performance. James Cromwell and Ellen Burstyn were both very good as Bush's parents who disapprove of his actions. Thandie Newton was decent as Condoleezza Rice though, offers a weird lisp. Jeffrey Wright neither looks or sounds like Colin Powell, but he is a talented actor and does play his role with conviction and Colin Powell offers reason to the madness.This is a surprisingly sympathetic view on George W. Bush, from a director who was critically of Bush's presidency. And that is where the problem lies, the film is not angry enough. They is obviously a question of audience, but lets face it, only die-hard neo-cons wouldn't watch this film unless it praised the man. And by the time this film was made Bush made sure that he was one of the most unpopular presidents in US history, and a number people would say he was also one of the worst in history, ruining America's domestic and foreign affairs. I confess, I'm a critic of Bush's presidency. This film was about the run-up of Iraq and how the facts were manipulated for the case for war, how Bush dropped against al-Qaida, brought in torture to be used against terrorist suspects and went over the head of American law and order, when terrorist suspects should have been tried in a citizen court. Bush is made out to be a puppet, which to some extent is true. The Neo-Cons did run Bush's presidency, with Cheney and Rumsfeld being the real masterminds. But Bush was never blameless. He knew what he was doing, he was able to use 9/11 and fear to get his agenda through.Another issue was when Cheney told his master plan of getting American bases across the Middle-East, controlling Iraq for oil and planning on going into Iran, allowing American having access to all the oil it needs. He presented this also like Bond villain, in an unrealistic manner. I'm sure one of the main reasons for the war was oil, but I bet that this aim was more subtle with in the American Government. Overall a decent film for people interested in American politics, but it could have been better. 7.5 out of 10.
When I was at College doing my A-Levels some of my friends really loved and raved about: but it has taken me a while to funny see and I am pleased with the result of this black action comedy.Martin Blank (John Cusack) is a skilled assassin and can do a variety of missions. But after two missions go wrong, he is forced to go back to his home town, Grosse Pointe using his high school reunion as a cover for an assassination attempt on a Federal Witness. Whilst he is there he explores his old town and has to make conservation with old school friends, but the person he needs to make an amends with is Debi (Minnie Driver), the girl he left on prom night. As he turns to say sorry to his old flame he re-evaluates his life and career but he is followed by a Basque terrorist (Benny Urquidez), two NSA agents (Hank Azaria and K. Todd Freeman) and his old rival Grocer (Dan Aykroyd (his best role outside Ghostbusters)) who wants to form a hit-man union.What makes Grosse Pointe Blanke work is that it has a very well written screenplay and the strong chemistry between the actors. Grosse Pointe Blanke has strong dialogue and character development, with much of the humour relying most on intelligence, observation and character driven. There is also some physical humour involving the over the top action scenes, parodying action films of the action films of the 80s and 90s, like the gun fight in the convenient store. There are funny ideas like Grocer wanting to unionise assassins, a profession which might be hard to get its workers to unite for obvious reasons.There is excellent chemistry between Cusack and Driver. You can really believe that there was a past between them and we see them reignite their relationship. They were natural together. There is also a strong relationship between Cusack and Aykroyd because they were friends who worked together but now rivals.There is a fun concept in the film about a man having to go back, face their past and meet people they possibly never wanted to see again. It something a lot of people would feel. It also sets out to humanise an assassin, showing that they have a past and that do have human emotions. Martin is a more complex character.There is an excellent soundtrack in this film, using the Specials, the Clash and many classic songs of the 80s. Joe Strummer composes the score for a film then you know you are onto a winner.There are some minor logical problems like when after the store was blown up surely the local media might have shown an interest. But it is nothing that could destroy the film.Overall, a fun film for anyone who enjoys action or comedy.
The Killing Fields is a brilliant film about friendship under extra-original circumstances. The film tells the story of American journalist Sydney Schanberg, who was reporting in Cambodia during the Vietnam war. America was secretly bombing Cambodia and then invade. He was present during the rise of the communists, the Khmer Rouge. Sydney befriends a Cambodian journalist and interpreter Dith Pran and both men see the country become war-torn and then see the Khmer Rouge become truly brutal against the people. Both men are forced by 1975 to hide in the French embassy with other journalists and Cambodians. Both men get split up, Sydney goes back home to New York whilst Dith is forced to under the brutal regime and goes into forced labour.This a beautiful film about friendship and both men do have a love for each other. It also show how brutal the regime of Pol Pot was and that he was on of the worst dictators in the twentieth century. It is well acted and Roland Joffe shows that he was once a good director. A aspect that I liked out the film was it felt like you were really they, you didn't know what was going one, like the people and you only got information from television or the radio. It also shows how difficult journalism can be in a situation like that. It also does shows the American government to be not doing enough to solve the situation.
Quentin Tarantino is one of the most celebrated writer/director around and a great example of someone not needing to go film school to be a successful filmmaker. His long awaited remake of Django, Django Unchained, was a high anticipated film and it will satisfy his large fan based.Set in 1858 in the South, Django (Jamie Foxx) is a slave who ends up being freed by a German dentist turned bounty hunter, Dr. King Schultz who needs Django to identity three brothers for a bounty. If Django agrees Schultz promises to help the former slave his freedom and find his wife, Broomhilda (Kerry Washington) . Schultz's trains Django and finds that Broomhilda was brought was a vain and sadistic plantation owner, Calvin Candie (Leonardo Di Caprio) and have to come up with an ambitious heist to free her.Like Inglourious Basterds Django Unchained is a very loose remake of the film it is based on. It is also pure historical fiction and a fantasy in its look and approach. But does provide everything you would want and expect from Tarantino film: there is his trademark witty dialogue and menacing monologues, extreme violence and bloody action and plenty of humour. It supplies on a number of fronts and tonally and approach wises it was very much like Inglourious and both Kill Bill films.Tarantino knows how to write engaging characters and cast great actors to fit the roles. Whilst Foxx is the title character Waltz was the real star of the film. Schultz was intelligence man with witty lines and dominated scenes he was in. A great touch in the characters of Django and Schultz is that it is Schultz that is most shocked by the cruelty of slavery because he is not used to it. Django starts of a very unsure character who is not educated and grows over the cause of the film into a Clint Eastwood esque character.Di Caprio famously rejected the role of Hans Landa in Inglorious Basterds which he regarded. He took the role of Calvin Candie to make up for the mistake and he delivers a good performance of a character who wants to be civilized and sophisticated yet really a barbarian as he enjoys watching men fight to the death. He made for a charismatic and has a great relationship with the head house slave, Stephen (Samuel L. Jackson), someone who he treads with distain, but Stephen is deadly loyal to his master.Django Unchained is genuinely funny with great jokes and physical lines throughout. My personal favourite moment was the satire of the Ku Klux Klan as they end up having a massive argument. But Tarantino also know how to keep the tension and drama up as well and whilst the action may not be on the same level of Kill Bill and Inglourious Basterds, it is solid fun and feeds a bloody lust.Like with many Tarantino films there are film references. There are some moments that are parcelled to Kill Bill and Inglourious Basterds (particularly Calvin Candie compared to Hans Landa) and there is a distinct B-Movie feel and look to it. Tarantino wanted to make a Spaghetti Western and there is clear references to the genre because of the art direction, costumes, the violence and the camera moments. Two other references I picked up on were to Birth of a Nation and to a scene in Full Metal Jacket (but played for laughs). I am sure there are more which I would see on future viewings.The biggest complain I have is the length and it felt that it needed tightening up. It was the final act where Tarantino let the film drag: he need a producer to tell him that he could have merged the final sequences together.On the whole Django Unchained is a highly enjoyable film that was well written and directed for the most part and has great characters. It will pleases fans and only the most harden Tarantino critic would dislike the film. It's not Tarantino's very best, but even his weaker films are still worth watching.
After making a series of motion capture films, Robert Zemeckis returned to live-action filmmaking with the drama Flight, which earned two Oscar nominations.William "Whip" Whittaker Sr. (Denzel Washington) is a pilot with alcohol and drug issues. Before a flight from Orlando to Atlanta had spend the night with a flight attendant, Katerina Marquez (Nadine Velazquez), undertaking his vices. When the place suffers from a mechanical error Whip miraculously rolls the plane and clashes it so that only six people lose their lives. Whip is hailed as a hero but the investigators of the clash discover Whip's alcoholism. With his legal team Whip sets out to prevent himself going to prison and being open to lawsuits and forms a relationship from a recurring drug addict, Nicole (Kelly Reilly).Flight is at best in the first 30 minutes where Zemeckis treats us to a brilliant sequence as the place suffers technical failure and nosedives with Whip taking controls of the situation. It is a tense, exciting sequence as the plan has to role in the sky and shows Zemeckis' skill with both big special effects and drama, showing why he has such a good reputation as a director.After the excitement of the first act Flight turns into a pure drama about a man with an addiction, playing it believable as a man who says he can give up any time but continually drawn to alcohol as a crutch. The other element is the legal drama as Whip and his legal team tires to prove it was mechanical error and not pilot error.Washington gives an excellent performance, being believable as this dark character, even when he is acting for good, such as defending Nicole. He did deserve an Oscar nomination and he is ably supported by a excellent cast, Don Cheadle, Kelly Reilly (best known role in the Sherlock Holmes films) and Bruce Greenwood.John Gatins was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Original Screenplay and he does tell an interesting story, using a big event to draw us into a character study and a Zemeckis drama. But Gatins and Zemeckis do go very heavy handed with the religious themes of redemption and forgiveness, with the plane clashing into a church, the members of church continuing to pray at the site of the clash and many conversations about God's will. It was the conversations about religion that felt particularly forceful and chucky and needed a rewrite to make it work better.Flight is a solid drama thanks to the performances from its cast and an excellent first act from Zemeckis.
After a nine year hiatus Ron Burgundy and his new team are back, sinking to new journalistic lows with the eagerly anticipated sequel and continue to bring their brand of humour to the series.After the events of the first film Ron Burgundy (Will Ferrell) and Veronica Corningstone (Christina Applegate) are a husband and wife news team in New York for a national network news. But Veronica takes over the primetime slot and Ron is fired for being the worst anchorman ever. Despite this Ron is hired to be an anchor for the first 24 hour news channel and brings back his old team who have moved on to owner disreputable fast food joints, photographing pussy and death.In New York Ron makes a bet that he would get better rating than his new rival, Jack Lime (James Marsden), despite having the graveyard shift. And his team achieve this by bringing in a new brand of news, forcing on America, vaginas, sporting triumphs and animal videos.Anchorman 2 does have problems, it is too long, it is a film of multiple plots instead of a narrative throughline and some of the jokes are hit and miss. But for the most part Anchorman 2 a success for fans of the first film, keeping the absurdist humours and the main fours characters' various levels of stupidity. Anchorman 2 takes a mile a minute approach with its joke telling, being rapid fire with jokes coming left and right. There any moments where I personally was laughing like a hyena. These moments included the beginning flash backs, the reporters trying crack live on TV and Ron hand rearing a shark. As a comedy it does its job, it makes you laugh.There are some ideas of the tabloidization and trivialisation of the news and the chase for ratings, whilst also having a brief look at the principle of Chinese Wall, the barrier between the journalists and the owners. But these ideas are used for comedy or dramatic purposes then offering any real commentary. If anything this is example of what would happen if people who are dumb or have no interest in the news ended up being in charge of the news.Anchorman 2 carries on the type of humour that made the first film so popular. It is not as good as the first film, but it is still one of the few comedy sequels that is actually funny.7.5/10
Who would have thought that Ben Affleck, the actor star of abominable films like Armageddon, Pearl Harbor and Paycheck could end being a good director? He gives us a solid debut with this Boston set crime thriller.Patrick Kenzie (Casey Affleck) is a private investigator in Dorchester, a rough working class area in Boston. There is a lot of media coverage about the abduction of Amanda McCready, a 3-year-old girl from the area. Patrick and his partner Angie (Michelle Monaghan) are hired by Amanda's family to help find the child. He can talk to the people who won't talk to the police. But this is not a simple case, Amanda's mum, Helene (Amy Ryan) is a drug addict, and she has just robbed a local Haitian gangster Cheese (Edi Gathegi). They is also the conflict with the head of the investigation Capt. Jack Doyle (Morgan Freeman), who sees Patrick as an unnecessary outsider who just wants the money. Patrick has to work with an experience detective, Detective Sergeant Remy Bressant (Ed Harris), looking at all lead and using their contacts to find the child.This film is based on Dennis Lehane novel, who also wrote the novel Mystic River, which was turned into a film directed by Clint Eastwood. I personally think that Gone Baby Gone was a better film then Mystic River was. Here, Ben Affleck and Aaron Stockard have written a tort script, telling not just a crime thriller, but also morality tale, and a tale of a rough working-class community. This is a fine writing job.Ben Affleck shows he is a much better director then he ever was as an actor. He had a steady hand with the camera, having some well crafted scenes, keeping the film tense and having excellent pacing throughout. He makes a good film and should hopefully direct more films in the future.They is a good cast, Ed Harris and Morgan Freeman are both of course excellent actors and show their talent again in this film. Casey Affleck shows that he has a good future as an actor, and offers a solid performance in the lead role. So does Casey's partner in crime Michelle Monaghan. Amy Ryan performance is also worthy of note.Other fine feature of the film is the cinematography by John Toll, shooting some lovely looking shots. He is a man who has offered top quality work over the years, like in The Last Samurai, Tropic Thunder and the Thin Red Line.Overall, a very good film. It is a crime-thriller, but also more then that. 4 out of 5.
The Coen Brothers are some of the finest filmmakers around, and have shown to be able to make excellent serious films like Miller's Crossing, Fargo and No Country for Old Men to screwball comedies like the great the Big Lebowski. Burn After Reading falls into the comedy genre.The plot is confusing, especially for people who are not use to Coen Brothers films, but I'll give it a shot. Osborne Cox (John Malkovich) quits from the CIA after being demoted and seeks revenge by writing his memoirs. His English wife Katie (Tilda Swinton) has a real dislike for Ozzie and is having an affair with a US Marshall, Harry Pfarrer (George Clooney), who is married to a children's author. Katie wants to divorce Ossie and tries to get a much financial information as possible and copies it and the memoirs onto a CD. However, her lawyers loose the CD in a gym and its found by gym workers Chad (Brad Pitt) and Linda (Frances McDormand). They believe they found top-secret information on the disk. Linda is on the wrong sign of forty, looking for love on the internet and wants some cosmetic surgery. Both Chad and Linda decide to blackmail Ozzie for the sum of $50,000. At the same time, the audience finds out that Harry is a sex addict and goes on the same dating website as Linda to look for partners. He ends up dating Linda and form a relationship when Harry's wife is out of town. When Ozzie refuses to pay Chad and Linda both decide to take the information to Russian embassy and offer to sell it to them. However this leads to them thinking they need to get more information for the Russians and alerts the big-wigs of the CIA. As the web of sex and lies continue during the film it starts to have consequences for the characters.Burn After Reading has a major trait of Coen Brothers of major characters who have separate aims and goals who end up interacting with each other. This happens in Fargo, No Country for Old Men and the Big Lebowski. As I said, it can be hard to follow if you don't know the work of the directors that well. Some people have described Burn After Reading as a parody of spy films. I didn't see it in the same way and I thought it was more a mick-take of the CIA and Washington D.C. because of their attitude and the bureaucracy. This was symbolised with J.K. Simmons playing the head of the CIA. It does make the CIA look pretty hopeless, which I guess quite a lot of people think is true. Americans may not know this, but in Britain they has been a issue about the intelligence services and government departments loosing sensitive information, and at the same time want to expand the amount of information they can hold on us. It adds a little topic humour to it. They are good acting performances in the film. Brad Pitt steals the show in this film, having most of the laughs and plays a total moron really well. John Malkovich is also going playing an easily angered, anti-social man who's life is falling a part. George Clooney is really good as a sleazy scumbag who is easy to dislike in the film. Frances McDormand is usual chirpy self, but is a little more downhearted compared to her role in Fargo. Tilda Swinton also offer a fine performance as a acid-tongued bitch who only thinks about herself and you wonder why she married Ozzie. The film is violence at times and its the only think that the Coen brothers know how to do: they are not filmmakers who are going to make a childens film in the near future.The film is a funny, but I was a little disappointed because I excepted more. I was hoping for more laughs in the film. The best performances for comedy were from Pitt and Malkovich. As some critics have said, it looks like the Coen Brothers and the actors had a lot of fun making this film. As well, except for Chad and to a lesser exent Linda, they are no likable characters in Burn After Reading. It is a solid film but it could have been better. To sum up, its too serious to be an out and out comedy, but its too silly to be a serious film.
King Kong is an undeniable classic. The story is well known, a group of sailors and filmmakers go to Skull Island and end up meeting up with a primitive tribe and seeing a lot pre-historic creatures and they capture the biggest and baddest of them all, a giant gorilla called Kong. They take Kong to New York where he escapes and runs amok, before climbing up the Empire State Building and is killed by biplanes.The film starts with Carl Denham planning on making a film on the mysterious island but losses his leading lady before sailing off. He meets a woman, Ann Darrow, who tries to steal an apple and asks her to be in the film. Whilst sailing to the island Ann starts to develop feeling for the ship's first mate Jack Driscoll, who is really just an robot. When they make it to the island the tribe kidnaps Ann and make her a sacrifice to Kong. The sailors, led by Jack set off to save her, whilst Carl films it all. After saving her they capture the gorilla and take him to New York, however, he had fallen in love with Ann and kidnaps her once again. As well as the story involving Kong, there is a love story between Ann and Jack. As I said, Jack does seem a bit emotionally dead, but Fay Wray was very good as Ann and this film is her most famous role. Carl is shown as an ambitious man, but not morally bankrupt as in the Peter Jackson remake and was a likable character. The love between Ann and Kong is only one way, Kong loves Ann but Ann was afraid of the gorilla and only loved Jack.What makes the film really great is the stop-motion animation mixed with live action film-making, which was revolutionary for the time. The stop-motion was also very good and well done, this was the best special effects that was available for the time. I personally really like it for that level as well.The film can also be seen as a morality tales, not to interfere with nature and not to take something out of its natural environment. In the film you do feel sorry for Kong and he is the real star of the film.King Kong is a very influential, especially for monster movies. It is a classic. The Peter Jackson remake is very good, but I still have a place in my heart for this film. It is also a short film, only an hour and a half which I think works. Well worth watching.
Brokeback Mountain is derogatory called Bareback Mountain by American Conservatives (the type of people who want to hold America back socially). These people obviously do not understand that Brokeback Mountain was more then 'the gay cowboy movie', but a powerful tale of forbidden love and the changing nature of rural America. Ang Lee, Heath Ledger and Jake Gyllenhaal do a terrific job with this film.Starting in 1963, ranch hand Ennis del Mar (Ledger) and rodeo cowboy Jack Twist (Gyllenhaal) who work together on Brokeback Mountain, Wyoming to herd sheep. There are alone in the mountains and of course they become friends. But after one drunken night Ennis and Jack have sex, and but Ennis warns Jack it was a one time incident. When the two split Ennis marries Alma (Michelle Williams), fathers two daughters and becomes a general labourer. Jack becomes a rodeo cowboy and marries rodeo princess Lureen (Anne Hathaway), the daughter of a wealthy man and the two have a son. But the two cowboys are continually drawn to each other, going back to Brokeback Mountain for 'fishing trips' and their families suffer because of it.Brokeback Mountain is a powerfully acted film, with great performances all round. Both Ledger and Gyllenhaal show why there deserved an Oscar nod each and why there were the greatest actors of their generation (Ledger untimely death a tragic lost to the work of acting). Both Ennis and Jack are two very different characters, Ennis being hot-headed, with a temper and seems to denied what he really is. He is a loving father, but suffers financial issues and is trapped in a loveless marriage, to a woman who suffers because of his hollow feelings. Jack on the other hand is more accepting about his feeling, though has to keep them hidden because of the nature of his environment: he willingly goes into a relationship with Lureen and the two seem to have a more healthier relationship, but he has more need for contact with other men. Both are believable and the situation is made out to be real. It is how a closet relationship work functioned and that what you would expect to be the most manly men can harbour feelings for each other and do not fall into the stereotype of what gay man would be. The other relationships are handled with great skills with the writers and Lee understanding human psychology. All the characters are well drawn and complex, with it easy to feel sorry for Ennis. But I would have like to have seen more of Jack and Lureen's home live.Lee directs with great skill, using excellent cinematography and an understated, simple score by Rodrigo Prieto and Gustavo Santaolalla to great effect. Lee shows the isolated nature of the mountain, beautiful, but cold and serves as a metaphor for both the characters as their relationship. It serves as both everything good and bad about them. Lee captures this area and period of America really well, showing that it period of change and that work of cowboys was changing and dying to be no more then a show act. He could have shown more of the conservative nature of areas of Wyoming and Texas and more ideas about Homophobia, but you can't have everything. Lee also follows a very simple rule of direction, show, don't tell, allowing the audience to see the emotions of the characters, using little dialogue for many moments of the film.A very good film that is more the 'gay cowboy movie' and a great way to say stuff you (because it's IMDb I can't use any harsher language) to American Conservatives of the Sarah Palin model.
We all know Hayao Miyazaki is an anime genius, creating stories focusing on character, story and fantasy, letting his imagine run wild. He has created great films like Spirited Away, Howl's Moving Castle and Princess Mononoke. My Neighbour Totoro is considered one of his first great works.Mr. Kusakabe (Shigesato Itoi) and his two daughters Satsuki (Noriko Hidaka) and Mei (Chika Sakamoto) move to a new home in rural Japan so they could be close to their sick mother (Sumi Shimamoto). They new home is run down and filled with soot spirits, but the family soon settle in. One day Mei meets a strange giant creature called Totoro, a large furry animal who has two minions. No one believes Mei at first but after Mei disappears Satsuki has to call Totoro for help.My Neighbour Totoro is a strange little film, but Miyazaki does have an understanding of a child's imagine (either that or he takes a lot powerful narcotics). There is a certain Alice in Wonderland feel about the film, with Mei going down a hole and Totoro and the Catbus (one of the weirdest ideas ever) looking like the Chester Cat. But the main focus of the film is the relationship between the young girls and the their father who is obviously overwhelmed with his caring for the girls, having a wife in hospital and continuing with his job. The children are energetic and believable and the film is about the wonders of a child's imagination. Only the children can see the creatures and it is almost dream like. But the girls are also dealing with a proper issues, particularly Satsuki who has to act as Mei's guardian and tries to be strong because Mei does not truly understand what's happening to their mum. What surprised me was that My Neighbour Totoro was very grounded, focusing on the girls: I would have liked to have seen more interaction with the creatures, especially because Miyazaki is so great at creating worlds and a great fantasy storytelling.The animation is great, as is expected from a Miyazaki film and there are some very surreal moments. The film is fast paced as hoped for in a children's animated film. But the film is so fast that some things are not explained, like a young boy, Kanta (Toshiyuki Amagasa)'s animosity towards Satsuki. He said that its because that there house is haunted, but surely there was more, maybe he was hurt by Totoro or the house or maybe it is something more basic, like he finds girls inky or fancies Satsuki and he does not know what to do about it.My Neighbour Totoro does have a very sweet nature about it, about how characters interact and the way Totoro and his friends reaction to humans, the small creatures being like normal animals with mystical powers. Totoro is a curious creature who is interested by the children's kindness and the gift of a umbrella, leading to the simple wonders of a big water drops hitting the umbrella. There is also the great Miyazaki trait of silence, letting scenes and actions play out without much sound or dialogue. It plays a universal audience. It was a charming atmosphere.
Christopher Nolan and Al Pacino are both are masters of their craft, and it great to see them working together. Insomnia is the best film Pacino has done since Heat and Christopher Nolan's first Hollywood, allowing him to re-boot Batman.Set in Alaska during the summer of 24-hour daylight, a 17-year-old girl had been murdered in a small town. LA police detectives Will Dormer (Al Pacino) and Hap Eckhart (Martin Donovan) have been asked to help the small town investigate. Both are experienced detectives, friends with the police chief and they are being investigated by Internal Affairs in their native city. Whilst investigating Dormer sets out to find the evidence, know every thing about the victim and match the information to a suspect. He quickly finds out that her boyfriend was abusive (the local bad boy), she had a fallen out with her best-friend and received expensive gifts. After setting a trap for the murderer goes wrong an officer is injured, but worst of all Dormer shots and kills Eckhart. It's seems to be a tragic accident but Eckhart believed it was deliberate. Dormer blames it one the killer. Now Dormer has a 3 way challenge, to find the killer and battle his mind games, cover up him killing Eckhart which is being investigated by a talented young officer Ellie Burr (Hilary Swank) and battle the affects of guilt and insomnia.Insomnia is a clever, tight thriller, with themes about guilt, psychological damage and the grey world of right and wrong. Nolan handles the material with skill and keeps the audience guessing. He slowing builds the jigsaw. Some pieces are obvious, some more subtle. You find out who the killer is pretty early, like in real life the prime suspect is normally the killer. But this is a film about mind-games and the affect of insomnia and guilt. Nolan keeps the film going and keeps it under 2 hours. The writer and director does a good job handling the multi-layered, but interlinking plot so you don't get lost in the film.There are excellent actors in the film. Al Pacino is brilliant, as he normally is. He is best actor in the film and his character has some similarities to his character in Heat. He about to show the mix elements of the character, but still makes him sympathetic. Robin Williams shows he can be a good, serious actor, but his performance in One Hour Photo was better. Hilary Swank is also a good actress in this film. There were no weak links in the film acting wises.My one criticism of the film is it was a bit too Hollywood, reminding me of Silence of the Lambs. I wanted something a little less conventional. But it is still a good movie.If you like Insomnia I personally recommend Se7en, Heat and Zodiac.
... it improves with age. South Park has been one of the dominate adult cartoons to hit the world, along with the Simpsons and Family Guy; but somehow the quality of South Park improved, not decreased. The Simpsons and Family Guy are in the shadow of their former glories.South Park came to our screen in 1997 as a very rude, crude and funny show. The show focus on four friends, Stan, Kyle, Cartman and Kenny, all growing up in a mountain town in Colorado. They are very fouled mouthed, who end up getting into a lot of adventures, ranging from fighting battles between heaven and hell, stopping alien abductions, to fighting monsters. There is nothing the show will not do. South Park does use crude humour, from swearing to toilet humour, which can appeal to the child within all of us. But South Park has very clever writers, Trey Parker and Matt Stone. They add many social, political and cultural gags and satire, making the show both more intelligence, and one of it's great strengths is South Park's ability to keep the show contemporary. One on my favourite episodes is The Passion of the Jew where they rip a hole in the fans of the Passion of the Christ, and Mel Gibson. When the show started to age the writers had to mature the show's approach, and not use cheap laughs like killing Kenny every time. They had to be a social commentary, but that ended up increasing the humour to a more intelligence audience. South Park's philosophy has been called South Park Republicanism, where they are socially liberal and fiscally conservative. If the Republican party was really like that I would support then being an complete Democracy (despite the fact I'm not American).As well as great humour based on grand themes, one of the other key elements is the characters, Stan and Kyle both fairly normal and sympathetic characters, Cartman, an obese, anti-Semistic, racist (and the best character in the show), and Kenny who is a cannon fodder in the early seasons. There are also good supporting characters like Butters who is delightfully naive, Chef, the sex obsessed school chef and talented singer (he was voiced by Issac Haynes), to characters like Mr/Mrs Grayson. There is a great relationship between Cartman and Kyle, with Cartman ripping on Kyle for being Jewish, whilst Kyle fights back by reminding Cartman is a fat idiot. Cartman is evil and would be a really dislikable character in real live, but is so appealing to watch in the context of the show because he shows the worst parts of humanity.Essential viewing.
Ang Lee is one of those directors who likes to try his hand at any genre of cinema: with Lust, Caution he decided to make a historical spy film set in Japanese occupied Japan.The film tells the story of Wong Chia Chi (Tang Wei), an attractive woman from Shanghai and studying in Hong Kong. She becomes involved in the bleak world of espionage and resistance. Chia Chi was a student at Hong Kong university where she becomes involved with a patriotic threate group who try and raise money for the resistance back on the mainland. After some success the leader of the group, Kuang Yumin (Wang Lee-Hom), comes into contact with a senior agent for the Chinese puppet government, Mr. Yee (Tony Leung Chiu-Wai). Here the group turns from passive to active, and plan to kill Mr. Yee whilst he was in Hong Kong. Here they need Chia Chi, with the aim that she can seduce him and give them a chance to murder. However, Mr. Yee and his wife are called back to Shanghai before the deed could be committed. After a violence murder of one of Mr. Yee bodyguards Chia Chi flee the group and end up in Shanghai after the Japanese invade Hong Kong. Three years later Chia Chi is living with her aunt and trying to continue with her studies. However she ends up meeting up with Kuang, who became an agent for the resistance. He introduces her to a senior leader of the resistance and they tell her that Mr. Yee was promoted, and became the head of the intelligence service in Shanghai. Because of his rank it was impossible to get near him because of the security around him. Chia Chi was needed because of her previous relationship and so could get need him, so that they could gather intelligence. However, Chia Chi and Mr. Yee become closer and start to form a very complex relationship.Lust, Caution is a very complex film. It's complex on two levels, first the intelligence and historical side, looking at a lot of aspects during the Second World War. The other aspect, and the more important aspect, is the look on character, personality and relationships. The film asks questions on what's more important, love for you country or a person. This was not a action-packed film, don't except James Bond or Jason Bourne. It's deeper, more subtle, and more about the relationships and slow ground work that needs to be done. They are also psychological looks on the film, what it means to become a spy and use someone for your own eyes. As well the characters, the film also takes a look at the occupation of Shanghai and the worries of war in Hong Kong and Shanghai. It is stated that they were shortages on very thing, including rice and petrol. As well, the Chinese resistance do murder Japanese sympathiser and bomb important targets, but at the same time, many citizens try and continue with their normal life. Life was more passive, compared to say Iraq in recent years.This film was extremely well written, brilliantly acted. It was tense and Ang Lee was able to direct the film with skill, adding to the tension.To faint-hearted people it should be warned that this film has some violence scenes, and some very graphic sex scenes, bordering on pornography. They is one scene inparticalarly which is hard to stomach, with some very violence sex.If you like this film, I also recommend the Dutch film Black Book, which look at similar themes and has a similar plot.
Jaws is often seen as the first blockbuster of the modern era, but Star Wars was the first film to become an phenomenon, causing a massive stir with a mass audience and was the start to one of the biggest film franchises ever. It cemented George Lucas' reputation as a filmmaker and has become a cinematic classic for generations of film fans.The Galactic Empire is in the middle of civil war, between the evil Emperor's forces, and the Rebel Alliance. One of the Rebel's spies, Princess Leia (Carrie Fisher) discovers the Empires plans for their new weapon, the Death Star, a space station that is powerful enough to destroy entire planets. She is captured by the evil Darth Vader (David Prowser/James Earl Jones): but Leia was able to sort the information on two droids, C-3PO (Anthony Daniels) and R2D2 (Kenny Barker). The droids crash on a desert and are saved by Luke Skywalker (Mark Hamill), and when he listens to Leia's message he becomes involved in the mission. Luke meets the man who Leia wanted the message to go, Obi-Wan Kenobi (Sir Alec Guinness), an elderly former Jedi Knight. The two team up and go to one of the roughest towns on the planet. They hire the serves of Hans Solo (Harrison Ford), and his hairy companion Chewbacca (Peter Mayhew) to help them. This crew end having to go into the Death Star, and forced to save the Princess and battle the power of Darth Vader.The production history behind Star Wars actually pretty interest, and had all the makings of being a flop. It was cast with unknown actors, the budget ballooned, many of the actors did not get along, particularly Anthony Daniels and Kenny Barker, and Fox got cold feet with the film. But this was not the case, and of course Star Wars was a massive success. The first saw the film when I was 11 and it still hold power over me. The actors in the film are decent throughout, this was the role that truly brought Harrison Ford to prominent, and he is easily the best actor in the film. His character is cool and has chemistry with everyone as the smuggler who seems not to give a damn. Both David Prowser and James Earl Jones ooze power and domination as Darth Vader, Prowser as the physical performer and James Earl Jones offering a menacing voice. Of course Sir Alec Guinness was good as his role as Luke's mentor and surrogate father. Carrie Fisher had excellent chemistry with Harrison Ford having a love hate relationship in the movie. And of course Mark Hamill was good in the leading role.But despite the actors efforts, this was George Lucas achievement, having written, directed and produced the film. As the sole writer/director this is the best Lucas has ever did. Lucas throws many sci-fi fantasies into this film, space travel, giant and laser weapons, psychic powers, multiple alien creatures, and basically fun adventure and action. The action scenes are excellent thought and the special were fantastic, particularly for the time. Even now they are still amazing. This also the best script Lucas has written, whilst the adventure was grand, the focus was on interesting characters you could care about. Lucas made sure the character were well developed and the world was grand, it was obviously based on the Roman Empire.Lucas shows when Special Effect are done well with a good story it can enhance the film experience. Lucas also hired John Williams to make the score for the film, which was a wise move. Williams make one of his best scores and it his music added to film, particularly the Death March.An all important classic.
This is the second Cronenberg film I have seen and I have fought this film to be a very interesting and entertaining experience. A History of Violence is loosely based on the graphic novel by John Wagner. The plot of the film is Tom Stall (Viggo Mortensen), is a family man, living in the Mid-West and owns a small diner. He is respected in his community and lives a conformable live-style. This all changes when two would-be robbers come into his diner late one night and try to steal the money and kill a woman. Tom was able to kill the robbers and become a local hero. However this brings unwanted attention and two gangsters from Philadelphia arrive and start calling him Joey Cusack. This starts to raise questions about Tom and his past. This leads to a number of confrontations with Carl Fogarty (Ed Harris), Richie Cusack (William Hurt) and even his own family.On one level A History of Violence is a gangster/crime film which in itself is very entertaining and well done. It is however, a very and small town live. psychological piece about how some can deal with a double identity and how it could affect his family. A movie about small town live and family relations, husband and wife and father and son. There is also the message about some trying to run away from his past and how that can't be possible and facing one's demons. The film also shows how tough Tom would have been and as the title suggest is a violence movie. There are some good scenes on that level. Cronenberg's direction was good and get the mood of the film write. There was also good casting in the film, especially from Viggo Mortensen who gives a good performance and avoids being type-casted after the Lord of the Rings trilogy. Ed Harris is very sinister in a subtle way in this film and William Hurt tends to give good performances.This movie is well worth watching.
The Coen Brothers are some of the best filmmakers in the business, very determined to keep their independent status. They have made some great films like Miller's Crossing, Fargo and the Big Lebowski, but they had been through a period where they made sub-par films, especially for their standards. Luckily No Country for Old Men is a welcome return to form and very deserving for winning the Oscars it got.The film is based on a novel by Cormac McCarthy, but I have no read it, so I will just judge it as a film. It is about a drug deal that goes wrong in the middle of the desert of Texas in 1983, leaving a number of Mexican gangsters dead. A local man Llewelyn Moss (Josh Brolin) was hunting in the area when he discoveries the carnage that happened. He discovered that one man was still alive and that they was two million dollars in cash in a case. However, he suffers guilt and returns to the site with water. In the middle of the night he finds out that they were a more people involved, and a sadistic hit-man Anton Chigurh (Javier Bardem) who will kill to get results and his favourite tool is the bolt gun. Moss has to go on the run, sending his wife to her mother's and has to use all his cunning to avoid and fight Chigurh. In the middle of these events is the local retiring sheriff Ed Tom Bell (Tommy Lee Jones), who slowly gets involved in a world of violence and organised crime. As well there are Mexican gangsters and a bounty hunter played by Woody Harrelson also wanting the money and will do anything to get it.It is a well plotted film, like the best Coen brothers' which have multiple plot twists and wide range of characters. It is well written, get examples for budding writers. The direction has typical Coen's flair in a good thriller setting: admittedly the film is a little more mainstream compared to other films they have made, but they were still able to make it their own. The characters are colourful and all show to have good knowledge and skill. Tommy Lee Jones character reminded me of Frances McDormand in Fargo. Brolin was able to make his character likely and Bardam was truly a sinister character, who deserved to win an Oscar for best supporting actor. I personally hope he has a good and long career in English and Spanish speaking films. Scottish actress Kelly MacDonald was also in the film and I personally thought she did an excellent Texan accent. This film does not have as much humour to other films by the brothers, but it was still an intelligent film which was philosophical at times. It is a worthy film.
Seven Samurai is seen as classic film which is highly rated: I am not going to disagree with that analysis. It is a milestone film in Japanese Cinema history and considered by some to be Akira Kurosawa's best film. It is influential, being remade as a western, The Magnificent Seven, and it cinematic tricks being used in other films, e.g. the Star Wars films.The story of the film is Early Modern Japan is in a state of civil war. Bandits roam the countryside and raid villages for food. One village decides to fight back, and hire seven ronins (masterless samurais) to help defend their village.The film is told in three major acts: recruit, training and the battle itself. Each part lasts just over an hour. It is a combination of a serious drama, history and moments of light-hearted comedy. Seven Samuari looks a number of themes, including sexual politics, fear, the village politics, issues of appeasement and war, star-crossed lover, poverty, rural life and Japanese history.Seven Samurai is very well written, looks into the issues of being noble or being plain merecanies. Kurosawa's is great shows why he was one of the best in the business. It had good acting and you do care for the characters. I also didn't mind the moments of comedy. The fights scenes were also particularly brilliant and very well done.I personally feel that Japanese cinema give us some of the best films around and I do like Japanese culture. Seven Samuari is a must see for anyone who enjoys films, regardless.
Tim Burton's version is a good attempt at making a Batman movie, but it's not the perfect bit of film making that some people on IMDb make it out to be and the Christopher Nolan version is much better.Batman in this movie is a mysterious vigilante, with many people, including the mayor and the police unsure what to make of him. At the same time gangsters were powerful in Gotham, one of them being Jack Napier (Jack Nicholson). Already the film differs from the comics because it gave the Joker a real name. After an unsuccessful raid at a chemical plant Batman was unable to save Napier's life. However, after falling into a vet of chemicals Napier became the Joker and takes over the crime empire of Gotham and does sadistic acts against the civilians of Gotham. At the same time Bruce Wayne (Michael Keaton) starts to have a romantic relationship with Vicki Vale (Kim Basinger) and showing that he dislikes the pretends of wealth and wants to live a simple life. As the film develops the Joker ends up doing a number of criminal acts and Batman has to stop him. The body court does raise during the films, especially during Gotham's bi-centennial celebrations. The film climax's with Batman and Joker fighting on the top of Gotham Cathedral, and finding out that Bruce Wayne's parents were killed by Jack Napier. This differs from the comics because Bruce Wayne's parents were killed by a random petty crock and shown in The Dark Knight Returns by Frank Miller and Batman Begins. The filmmakers were trying to show that the Joker created Batman before Batman created the Joker.Batman was a good film, they were good scenes in it. I liked the begin when you see Batman straight away. In superhero movies now you have to wait to see the hero, e.g. Spiderman, Batman Begins and the Hulk. Most of the acting was good and Tim Burton has a good eye for set design, making Gotham seem a grim place. However, Batman doesn't seem to be real, and made during a time when superhero movies were seen as fantasy, and compared to now most superhero movies are trying to be made as realistic as possible.I have a few problems with this film. Firstly I didn't like it when the movie differs from the comics a bit, but I can live with it. My major problem was that I felt that the movie was still a little cartoony for my liking and does have some really stupid things liked poisoned make-up that TV presenters were prevented from wearing it and the Joker shooting down the Bat-Jet with a Smithen-Western with a ridicules long barrel. This movie was also an excuse from Nicholson to ham up his performance. I also felt that Keaton gave a decent performance, but I felt that he wasn't big enough or good looking enough for the role and that Christian Bale was better. However, the movie was good in attempt to avoid being like the God-awful 1960s show and was a good bit of film making, showing Burton's potential. It is still worth watching, as long as you avoid the Joel Schumacher version of the films.
Yojimbo is one of Akira Kurosawa's most celebrated films in his career and was remade by Sergio Leone into A Fistful of Dollars. It is considered an essential film and a classic in the samurai genre. Toshiro Mifune was excellent as the nameless ronin who sets out to protect the town, being a man of few words. Kurosawa is of course excellent at setting up the conflict in the town and how it affects the people whilst also delivering on fine samurai sword fights (a man even has his hand cut off). Kurosawa wonderfully lets his scenes play out with plenty of long shots and small camera movements. Kurosawa and his actors also inject some occasional moments of humours to help lighten the mood when need be. But for the most Yojimbo is a serious drama with some very dark elements. Out of the Kurosawa films I have seen I personally prefer Seven Samurai for its scale and Rashomon for its ambition, but Yojimbo is still a worthy film and true film buffs need to watch it.
After success in Britain making Spaced, Shaun of the Dead and Hot Fuzz, Edgar Wright has been given the chance to direct a Hollywood film, Scott Pilgrim vs. the World. And Wright was does not disappoint with this action, comedy comic book adaptation.Set in the Canadian city Toronto we follow our hero Scott Pilgrim (Michael Cera), a slacker dating a 17-year-old high schooler Knives Chau (Ellen Wong) and the bass guitarist for the Sex Bob-omb. But Scott is recovering from a nasty break up and he falls literally for the girl of his dreams, Ramona Flowers (Mary Elizabeth Winstead). He tries to win her over, but there is a big problem, he has to defeat her seven evil exs, including Matthew Patel (Satya Bhabha), Lucas Lee (Chris Evans), Todd Ingram (Brandon Routh), Roxy Ritcher (Mae Whitman) and the worst of them all Gideon (Jason Schwartzman).Scott Pilgrim vs. the World is a visually rich film, with Wright literally makes a live action comic book. He brings in the style of the comic book into the film with little visual touches like words coming up onto the screen, using images from the comic for telling some backstory to using panels to great affect. The fights were done with incredible skill and Wright employs the style of Capcom beat-'em-ups, with the opening of a fight shot like a landscape and used visual lettering like in though games. The fights were wonderfully shot and edited, with the camera placed in the right areas and shows that Paul Greengrass style shaky-cam and quick cutting is not needed: audiences want to see what happens in a fight scene. Wright also employ other video game references, like the extra life was reminded me of the Sonic the Hedgehog games I enjoyed in my youth, 3D beat-'em-ups like Virtual Fighter and Soul Calibur and arcade games like Donkey Kong. There is also a video game style score to go with the indie-rock preformed by the bands.There is a great amount of comedy in the film. Scott Pilgrim vs. the World starts out a witty, dialogue that offers smiles and chuckles, but no real belly lasts: yet they include later on there are more jokes, involving clever observations, great characters, physical humour and how real young people. Wright and graphic novelist Bryan Lee O'Malley do understand both young people and how pop culture. Much of the humour is very sarcastic, particularly from the female characters.There is a excellent cast. Cera gave his best performance as a slacker with personal baggage and well cast. Winstead too was brilliant as Ramona Flowers, leaves plenty of mystery in her character and well, she has a great body: I particularly like her fight with Whitman as Roxy Ritcher. Wong was good as Knives and also fun to look, I enjoyed her naïve young girl act who is just excited to be dating someone older but not confidence about doing anything with Scott. She grows as a character. Alison Pill and Anna Kendrick both offer a lot of sarcastic humour and do it very well: Pill did have a good supporting role but I would have liked to have seen more of Kendrick. Kieran Culkin had a good as Wallace Wells, Scott's gay roommate who is a gossip and willing to annoy people, but a good friend when it court. Culkin is smart simply plays the character as a normal man who happens to be gay, not a gay man, his performance was more natural that way. Out of the exs Schwartzman is perfectly slimy as the leader of evil exs, Routh was very funny as a dimwitted psychic with no morals and hopefully he will get to play Superman again and Evans was very good as an over the top action star with a deliberately gruff voice and speaking in action clichés. Whitman was also good in performance.Scott Pilgrim vs. the World is a excellent alternative comic book film, one of the best. It can stand along side films like Sin City and 300 and it is an excellent action-comedy. But I still think Kick-Ass is the best comic-book adaptation of 2010.
Within American comic books there are two types of comic books, the mainstream which includes famous superheroes like Batman, Spider-man, Superman, etc which aim to appeal the wider audience possible, and then there are underground comics like Ghostworld and American Splendor, which are aimed at a smaller adult audience and tackle more grounded issues. This can also be seen in American cinema, with Hollywood films which too also aim for a wide audience, whilst indie cinema is more adventurous. With American Splendor, underground comics and American Indie cinema are combined.American Splendor is based on the comic book series by Harvey Peker which is a an autobiographical account of Harvey Peker's (Paul Giamatti/Harvey Peker) regular life. Harvey is a regular man living in Cleveland which most American would descript as an industrial hole. Harvey is a middle aged man who has two failed marriages under his belt and works a dead-end job as a file clerk in a hospital. He is a bright man with a typical American left-wing attitude against big business and mainstream culture. He decides to become a comic book writer, writing about his own personal life. He quickly becomes a hit writer and gain critical recognition: but he continues to work his clerk job. His life takes a turn when one of his fans, Joyce Brabner (Hope Davies) sends him fan-mail and the two meet his home city. They quickly fall for each other and marry each other. But their marriage is fall of struggle whilst Harvey's fame rises, and Joyce goes through a rut. The two also have to go through one of the worst experiences imaginable, when Harvey discovers he has cancer and Harvey and Joyce write a graphic novel to overcome the experience.This is a fine example of indie cinema at it quirkiest. This is a comic bio-pic, made by people who obviously who are fans of the series. The directors Shari Springer Berman and Robert Pulcini do not want to tell a conventional film: telling the story of one man's adult live, about original live, and the creative process. For the most part they keep a fun energy going throughout the film, and their experience as documentary film-makers show, particularly when their interview Harvey Peker. They are moments of style like when the cartoon versions of Harvey are shown, keeps a quirky, feel to the film. The character of Cleveland and it's industrial scene is present throughout the film, and it influence the hero.A mate of my joked that Paul Giamatti on the DVD cover looked like an older version of another friend. Character wise they weren't much different. Giamatti and Davies are convicting in the main roles, are two intelligence, ordinary people who become writers. But Peker at times can be a bit annoying with his pessimistic outlook and his counter-culture viewpoint to the extreme.However this is a funny film, a good example of American Indie cinema.
In theory Knight and Day should have been a winning formula, it has two big name stars in the lead roles and directed by James Mangold, director of Walk the Line and 3:10 to Yuma. It also had a combined formula of action, thriller, romances and comedy. But it sadly failed and it deserves to be Tom Cruise's lowest grossing film for 20 years.June Havens (Cameron Diaz) is a car mechanic who was on her way home to Boston for her sister's wedding when she meets Roy Miller (Cruise) at Wichita airport. Unknown to her Roy is a rogue spy on the run from the FBI and CIA. When Roy kills a place load of spies with June she is forced to join Roy on a international chase, from Boston to New York to Europe, as they are chased by the American government and a Spanish arms dealer, Antonio (Jordi Molla).The reason why Knight and Day fails is because it is mediocre on many fronts. Mangold is a good director but he is known for character based dramas: but with Knight and Day he had very little to work with from the script. The action was average: it was well done but offered nothing new. The CGI was about on the same levels of Jumanji: good for the mid-90s but pedestrian now. It should have been a film that should have used CGI as a last resort and Mangold is good enough to do that. The jokes were not bad but there didn't offer true belly laughs either: the best jokes were in the trailer. The plot itself was simple but not braindead either; but there are holes and there is a lazy device that when things get difficult June is knocked unconscious and then the film skips ahead, so we don't get to see how Roy and June in an action set piece. But Mangold do show some flair, like when he plays typical rom-com music over a scene when Roy is killing a lot of people.The acting is okay throughout, no one is bad but no one stands out either. After an excellent cameo in Tropic Thunder Cruise wanted to do more comedy and he does have comic timing: but he does not have a lot to work with in the script. He is also trying to keep his persona of being a major blockbuster action film, but people can't take him seriously after he started preaching the word of L. Ron Hubbard and going nut on Oprah. It's a shame because Cruise can be a good actor. He needs to do a smaller drama directed by a respected director like Paul Thomas Anderson or Martin Scorsese. Diaz is also decent, offering the audience the occasional laugh and it's clear she has strong chemistry with Mr. Cruise: it was confirmed to anyone who saw them on Top Gear. However it is a stretch to believe Diaz looking as she does and acting clumsy to believe she is a mechanic.A example of weak filmmaking with a limited plot. Inception, Toy Story 3 and even The Karate Kid and The A-Team offer more entertainment value.
Simon Pegg and Edgar Wright are a perfect showcase of British comedy at the moment, and how to make a good film. This film has some of Britain's brightest comedy talent along with some good actors such as Timothy Dalton.The plot of the film is Nicholas Angel (Simon Pegg), is London's best police officer. He is so good he makes the rest of the Metropolian police look bad and he is transfered to Sandford, the safety village in Britain. However the village was hiding some dark secrets and has a high 'accident' rate. Angel believed that it was Simon Skinner (Timothy Dalton), responsible for the accidents, but the true was far more darker then that and gives the film a Wicker Man feel.The comedy in the film is good and is a mix of good jokes, slapstick, visual gaps and parody. It isn't like Scary Movie or Epic Movie where those films just make fun of other films, but parodies clichés and famous scenes and pays respect to those films, like Shaun of the Dead did to the George A. Romero zombie films. It was written and well performed, and adds to my belief when British comedy is done well it is the best in world. They are also little Easter Eggs in the film, such as when Danny Butterman (Nick Forst) was looking through the bargain bin DVDs in the supermarket you see a Shaun of the Dead DVD in there. I also liked it that Danny was a Bristol Rovers fan, especially when I found out Bristol City refused to allow the filmmakers use their shirt.They is one warning about this film, it is extremely violence and some people might not like that. I personally enjoyed it, especially at the end with Angel and Skinner.
What Jerry Bruckheimer says to himself everyday. Anyway, 2010 was a bad year for Mr. Brockheimer, producing two flops, Prince of Persia and The Sorcerer's Apprentice, so needed a hit to get back on top. Luckily a Pirates of the Caribbean sequel is a good way to do that, even though At World's End was a incomprehensible mess and the director of the original trilogy, Gore Verbinski decided to make an animated film instead.In the middle of the 18th Century Jack Sparrow (Johnny Depp) is in London after loosing the Black Pearl after the end of the third and King George II (Richard Griffiths) orders the pirate to lead an expedition to the Fountain of Youth, with Hector Barbossa (Geoffrey Rush), who is now a privateer for the British Navy. Despite this Jack does not join them and escape, finding out someone is pretending to be him and lead their own expedition. He is soon captured and taken on board the Queen Anne's Revenge, the ship of Blackbeard (Ian McShane) and his daughter Angelica (Penelope Cruz), a former flame of Jack's. Soon Blackbeard, the British led by Barbossa and the Spanish are all heading to the Fountain and want it's power.After the problems of At World's End, the budget of On Stranger's Tide was tighten, with filming moved to London and Hawaii and the plot was simplified. This was a smart move because it gave the characters and factors a clear focus. It is a better plotted film then At World's End and characters do not have loads of different goals. There were a few subplots but they were in context of the overall of the film, such as mutiny and the capturing of a mermaid. The actual story about finding the Fountain was very similar to an Indiana Jones, trying to find a famous legendary object/treasure/location and what's impact could be. Essentially this film is trying to be a Indiana Jones film with pirates. At the same time Jack's ability double cross people is toned down and On Stranger's Tide suffers because of it.Rob Marshall replaced Verbinski in the director's chair and he is best known for making musicals. He does an decent enough job and pretty much the same from the previous films. This Pirates film is shot with a darker colour pallet and creates a problems, because it makes it harder to see the action sequences. The action is this film is the weakest in the series, the mermaid attack the best part of the film. On Stranger's Tide was shot in 3D and I saw it in 2D: but the 3D shots shall we say lacked subtly, with Blackbeard thrusting his sword or the mermaids driving towards the camera. Also Marshall saw fit to add some dancing and singing in the film.Johnny Depp obviously loves the characters, he keeps coming back to the role and I am sure it's not just for the money. He is still pretty funny, but Sparrow was a more serious character this time round. Cruz is a fine addition to the cast as the feisty woman who is a capable fighter and had a spark with Depp, though I would have liked to have seen Zoe Saldana's character from the first film return and have her character expanded upon. Cruz is a talented actor and her Latin charms were a great addition to series: hopefully she will returns and get a bigger role. McShane is always good as a villain for hire, menacing and ruthless, particularly with the mermaid. Rush however looks very ragged and his role was pretty pointless: I am sure he respired his role for the paycheque so he could afford to do smaller films like The King Speech. Somehow the casting director found an actor who was even more boring then Orlando Bloom, Sam Claflin, who was a really brand, wet missionary who added nothing to the film and Àstrid Bergès-Frisbey is very petty, but because of lack of English skills she did not speak much. And Stephen Graham was seriously misused: he is a talented actor and was just used as a comic relief character, not say, a tough swordfighter and potential match for Jack.There are elements of the film which are not expanded, like how does Blackbeard control the ship with his sword: is it a magic sword? Some explanation would be nice. Also Blackbeard's officers are zombies, making them more obedient, wouldn't it make more sense to make the crew into zombies and let the officers keep their intelligence and if anything the zombies did not seem that out of it: their only advantage is that they could survive being stabbed.At times On Stranger's Tide feels a bit lazy and laboured, made simply to cash in on the popularity of the series. I have never been a big fan of the series but the films are entertaining enough. I just hope the fifth film the final one, allowing Jack Sparrow to retire and put some effort into it. On Stranger's Tide is decent enough but it is your typical blockbuster fare. You got to love Hans Zimmer's music, giving Pirates an almost Lord of the Rings style score this time round.
The Karate Kid remake had everything going against it: it is based on a cult classic, produced by Will and Jada Pinkett Smith so their son can star in a blockbuster, moved the action to China to rely on it's potential box-office and directed by a man who has a less then impressive record. But it turned out to a pretty decent film.12-year-old Dre Parker (Jaden Smith) and his mother (Taraji P. Henson) move from Detroit to Beijing. Dre is forced to go to a new school and make new friends in strange country. He quickly falls a young violin protégé Mei Ying (Wen Wen Han) but runs into group of vicious bullies led by Cheng (Zhenwei Wang). With the bullies being constantly being a threat and he being unable to adjust to his new environment Dre's life becomes a living hell. But when the maintenance man Mr. Han (Jackie Chan) protects the boy the two becomes friends and when Dre is enrolled into a kung-fu tournament to take on the bullies. Mr. Han teaches Dre kung fu and despite some early frustrations Dre soon becomes skilled in the martial art. Dre too starts to form a relationship with Mei Ying as the tournament approaches.The Karate Kid is far being a perfect film, but for what it is it a well done film. Whilst there is some comedy the film for the most part is played straight. The martial arts sequences are pretty bone-crushing and for the most part well directed. With anything that involves Chan the director Harald Zwart simply placed cameras in strategic positions and just lets the man do his thing. The bullying scenes were powerfully handled, for a PG rated film Zwart does not hold back with the ways the bullies treat Dre, forcing him to live in fear. Cheng is a kid you would love to hate. But whilst Cheng is seen as the main antagonist the real villain is Master Li (Yu Rongguang) who teaches his students to be violence and dirty, fighting with no honour compared to Mr. Han's noble and spiritual view on kung-fu, which should be used as self-defence and expand your mind. Plus there excellent cinematography by Roger Pratt, showing the wonderful countryside of China (i.e. the Wudang Mountains) and the major landmarks of Beijing and a fitting score by James Horner.Chan shows that he can be a good actor. His performance is natural, being a tough teacher but a good man. When he has to be funny Chan plays it straight, his character does not realise he is funny. It's a excellent technique. Smith is a bit more hit and miss. His attempts to be like his father trying to inject humour through a similar speaking pattern and psychical actions, but he did not do it as well and the film failed on that front. But when Smith is serious, like when he makes his speech about hating living in China he shows really potential. What the young actor should do is do a serious indie drama and avoid the coattails of his family parents. He could end up being like a male Dakota Fanning.There are problems with the film. The biggest is the running time. At 2 hours 20 minutes it is too long for a family film and seeing the plot is pretty simple there was no need for it to be that long. Half-an-hour could have easily been cut, there are too many montages to point where it reminded me of the Team America song. Also one or two of the bullying scenes could have been shorten. There also to much filler, the film needed to be a little more fasted pace: the audience knows the basic set up so why pussy foot around it in the beginning? Also the element that Dre and Mei Ying forming a relationship was in poor taste considering their age. It could have been just as effective to show the two trying to be friends with the bullies and her family trying to prevent it and show something tender like Mei Ying kissing Dre on the cheek. Plus Mei Ying's dancing to the awful Lady Gaga song just plain inappropriate. The odd couple of jokes could also been seen coming from a mile away, like early on in the plane. Also some of the fight scenes at the tournament were a little heavily edited with some poor placing of the camera. As well, sure Dre's mother would have sent him to a Western school? Finally, the film was set in China and the kids learnt kung fu, so why wasn't the film called The Kung Fu Kid?A film that should pleasantly surprise audiences.
If any writer or director wants to make a film about a lesser known comic book hero, then they really need to see Blade and Blade II to see how it should be done. After the disaster that was Batman and Robin, this shows comic books films could be done seriously and was a surprise hit of 1998.Blade is a half-human, half-vampire. His mother was bitten by a vampire whilst pregnant and he ends up infected. He has all the strengths of a vampire, but he has a sense of humanity and is able to walk in the day (he is nick named 'The Daywalker'). But he has to fight his internal thirst for blood and make sure he is more human then vampire. He works with his mentor and tech guy Whisper (Kris Kristofferson) who hunt vampires. Blade is the muscle, he is a skilled fight and uses weapons like a silver sword to kill vampires. They are also investigating the activities of Declan Frost (Stephen Dorff), a vampire who was turned and wants to bring about a prophecy involving the re-birth of the blood god. A sub-plot also involves Blade saving Dr. Karen Jenson (N'Bushe Wright), a hematologist i.e. a blood specialist. She had been bitten by a vampire and on the edge of turning. She offers to find a cure for vampirism, and help creates a new scrum for Blade.This is a film that proved that David S. Goyer is a talented writer, and that Stephen Norrington have ability as a direct. They made a dark, serious, very violence film with a few little jokes to lighten things up. Stephen Norrington gave the film a dark, yet cool tone, showing a good eye for the setting and there are brilliant action sequences. He has a cool effect for when vampires are killed. The material arts are well done; maybe a little too much MTV style editing, but still very good. Some of the CGI was a little ropy, but the film was made in 1998, and it's budget wasn't as big as other major films of the time; but still pretty fun. Goyer adds a political and social dimension to Blade, involving vampire politics and racism (between true blood vampires and turned vampires). They are themes of corruption, but the biggest theme is Blade fighting his urge. The best vampire stories often have some sort of theme in them. Wesley Snipes is utter cool in this film, showing his fighting skill and delivers good one-liners. He is Blade. He has the look, the skill and the ability to play the role. Blade and Blade II are the best films he has done.There is also good dance music by Mark Isham. I am personally not a fan of dance music (except for Paul Oakenfold), but in the context of this film, it works really effectively.A fine action movie.
Since Lord of the Rings and Harry Potter have reinvented the fantasy film genre producers in Hollywood have been desperate to repeat that success. Producers have looked for children's books to adapt into films and hope to have a series. The Spiderwick Chronicles is a better attempt and a perfectly enjoyable family film.The Grace Family, mum Helen (the always lovely Mary Louise Parker), daughter Mallory (Sarah Bolger) and twins Jared and Simon (both played by Freddie Highmore) move from New York to a country house they inherited. Jaden is particularly hostile to the move and clashes with his family. But Jared soon finds a book written by his great great uncle, Arthur Spiderwick (David Strathaim) that is about the mystical creatures that we can not see. But the powerful ogre Mulgrarath (Nick Nolte) wants the book for himself to make him unstoppable. Soon the children have to work together to stop him.Mark Waters is know for making family friendly films and he certainly makes a fast paced little adventure with quite a bit of action and small doses of comedy. The Spiderwick Chronicles speeds along nicely, not allowing things to drag and there is a some good CGI for the fantasy creatures. They is a light hearted tone to the film, making it enjoyable for children of all ages, I am such children would enjoy it like I enjoyed Jumanji when I was a child.There is strong chemistry between Highmore and Bolger. You can believe that they are brother and sister, fighting, arguing and putting each other down. It was also a tough role by Highmore because he had to play two very different characters, though Jaden was the more major character. As well as being a fantasy film there is also a family drama behind all the action as the family learn to trust Jaden and come to terms with their new move.There are some elements we have all seem before such as the kids moving to a new town and having trouble within their family situation. But it is still a well done film.
To many people Bambi is one of the first films they would have seen as a child and the first film to cause a strong emotional reaction for many viewers. Bambi is a classic piece of Disney cinema, made in a period of excellent Disney films, Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs, Dumbo and one of my childhood favourites, Pinocchio. The animation throughout is gorgeous, with detailed, watercolour backgrounds, wonderfully flowing and realistic looking animals and very inventive at times. The musical score blends with the actions on the screen and serves as a great example of how music enhance the visuals. Bambi is not a film that supply massive laughs but there are plenty of chuckles to be had from the physical humour and adults will get a chuckle from the actuate portrayal different types of children. There is also an early environment message about the damage men can cause because of their reckless behaviour and serves as a constant threat for the animals. Bambi is a sweet film about growing up and the lost of innocents throughout
At the end of 2007 and beginning of 2008 Juno was small indie film that took the world by surprise, winning recognition for it's star Ellen Page and made it's first time writer Diablo Cody into one of the best known screenwriters in the world.In a typical town in Middle America 16-year-old Juno MacGuff (Ellen Page) discovers she is pregnant after loosing her virginity with her best friend Paulie Bleeker (Michael Cera). Juno at first tries to have an abortion, but ends up bottling it. With her friend Leah (Olivia Thirlby), she looks for a couple to adopt the baby in the local free paper. After an initially shocked reaction from her dad and step-mum (J.K. Simmons and Allison Janney), they support Juno's decision, and meet the couple. The married couple are Mark and Vanessa (Jason Bateman and the lovely Jennifer Garner), a wealthy upper-middle class who can't have children. Both things become more complex when Juno sees Mark as a kindred spirit, with similar tastes and interests. Juno goes to see Mark, despite the counsel of family and friends.Juno has talent in front of and behind the camera. They is a excellent support cast, J.K. Simmons, Jason Bateman, Allison 'C.J. Cregg' Janney and Jennifer Garner are all actors I am willing to watch, and offer heart-warming, convincing performances. Ellen Page is the start of the the film, and this is her best role to date. However her character is at times slightly annoying, and I am properly in a minority, but I find Ellen Page is an overrated actress. Michael Cera also offers a heartwarming, down-to-Earth performance as Bleeker, Juno's conflicted friend who is thrown into an extraordinary situation.Diablo Cody does write a very witty script, with good lines and dialogue, keeping the humour to be very natural and down-to-Earth. The revolves around clever characters and their understanding of the world. She is also able to add drama and develops a decent story. It is a shame that it seems Cody is torching her own career after writing Jennifer's Body.Jason Reitman is a director with his star rising, having also directed Thank you for Smoking and Up in the Air. With Juno he earned his first Oscar nomination, but understand lost to the Coen Brothers, and had strong competition from Paul Thomas Anderson. Reitman keeps the tone sweet natured and down-to-Earth, allowing the film to organically evolve and for characters to grow. It's not just film about teenage pregnancy but also a coming-of-age story and almost a love story. Reitman has a real spirit and style for this type of material.I can also praise both Cody and Reitman for showing a more realist view of school life. It's not like other American media like Glee or American Pie or whatever else where either the jocks and the geeks are in the middle of a continuous war or they all the students are just drugged and sex crazed. They are just normal teenagers trying to get by with their school work and want to lead normal lives. The best example of this is Michael Cera.There are however a few little problems. I thought that Juno as a character was a bit annoying and obnoxious, and is at first hard to sympathise with. I also didn't believe that even as alternative Juno is, her tastes are still to specific and I think at her age she would be listening to bands like the Clash and the Sex Pistol as a way in to listening to other lesser known bands. Finally some of the dialogue is still a bit too scripted, especially for the type film it wanted to be.This is a good, sweet natured, light comedy, a good film if you like indie films, and films like Little Miss Sunshine.
From the director of the Charlie's Angels films and the writer of films like xXx: State of the Union and X-Men: The Last Stand, comes an awful rom-com with tacked on mediocre action scene in an attempt to please everyone, but ends up pleasing no one.Tuck (Tom Hardy) and FDR (Chris Pine) are CIA field officers who forced into desk jobs in Los Angeles after a mission goes wrong in Hong Kong. Tuck is longing for a relationship after being shot down by his ex-wife and meets Lauren Scott (Reese Witherspoon), a product tester, on a dating website. But Lauren also meets FDR and she dates both men at time, leading to Tuck and FDR to use CIA resources to get information on Lauren and stop each other, forgetting a dangerous weapons dealer, Heinrich (Til Schweiger) wants revenge.Let's make no bones about this film, This Means War is very bad, a horrible waste of the talents of its actors. As a comedy it unfunny, with poor jokes and the only two times I chuckled was at the expense of FDR who is a complete egoist. For a film that is meant to be an action-comedy the action is too few and far between and shot too close and edited too quickly. It is a crying shame that the best action scene is when Tuck dominates a paintball battle and it was a scene that had some comic potential.This Means War is a very sloppily written, it is a weak rom-com with an action/spy plot that was treated as an afterthought. FDR was made out to be complete narcissist who only cares about himself and the number of women he can bed. He simply wears Lauren down to go on a date with her before finding out Tuck was going out with her. Yet FDR is the one who has 'character grown' and a big SPOILER, he gets the girl! Hardy has the better role of being the nice, safe guy, but he is basically the perfect man and they should have been no question in Lauren's mind. Yet his character is made British for no real reason excuse to make some bad jokes. It does not make any real sense that he works for the CIA. We don't even get a throw away line like he is on loan from MI6 or he is American but raised in Britain.The most annoying character was Lauren's friend played by Chelsea Handler who was just grating as she was trying to be as vulgar as possible. I just wanted her to shut up! Because of the setting within the CIA, Tuck and FDR use CIA resources to monitor Lauren, including background checks, bugging her house, placing GPS trackers, tapping her phones, using spy drones, the usual spy stuff. This is comedy, this is very creepy: even a better action comedy, True Lies had this problem. It is hard to route for any character when they use this information to score with Lauren. And Lauren doesn't seen to question how these men suddenly know they faults and counter them. This is a film where no one in the CIA questions why FDR and Tuck are monitoring a seemingly harmless woman and waste manpower on her. A spy drone even gets blown up over a race track in LA and that would be a great time to question what they are doing: but that never happens. I personally would have loved to have seen a twist was FDR and Tuck dicked about with CIA resources so much that a terrorist attack happens on their watch.The jokes in the script are weak, McG's direction does not help as he allows jokes and scenes to linger. There is no snap to the directional or the comedy and it was just lazy. The best moment of his direction comes as a long continuous shot when FDR and Lauren enter a club, but that is it. McG has no ability with comedy.This is a just an awful film that at least Hardy and Pine have recovered from. The script and the direction is are dreadful and This Means War is basically a film made by committee. They are better ways to deal with this material: there is the already mention dark comic twist about the consequences of Tuck and FDR's actions. The film could have focused on one CIA agent who finds the love of his life but has to keep his profession from her. Or they is a dark drama about a CIA agent being obsessive and control and does everything he can to keep his girlfriend, with the girlfriend having nowhere to turn.If you want a good action-comedy just watch True Lies or RED.
...of a movie franchise that is too successful for its own good. The first film was a decent, fun romp, nothing specular but it wasn't setting itself out to be high art. The Second was a run in the mill sequel and nothing that good. The Mummy Returns even set up a spin for the Scorpion King which was a pet project for the Rock and even that had a straight to DVD sequel which was rubbish.2000 years before the main events of the film, Han (Jet Li) became the emperor of China by force. He sets out to control the country, the elements and even overcome death. Han is able to recruit the help of a witch, Zi Yuan (Michelle Yeoh) to become immortal. Han falls in love with Zi Yuan, but she is in love with General Ming (Russell Wong). After Zi Yuan does make Han immortal, he betrays her by killing Ming and attempts to kill her, but Zi Yuan being a clever woman puts a curse on Han and his army, turning them into terracotta. Fast Forward to 1946. Alex O'Connell (Luke Ford) is now a young adult and a expert in Chinese history and archaeology. In Western China his team finds the Terracotta Army (see where we're going). This becomes major news very quickly and he becomes famous in Shanghai. In England Rick and Evelyn (Brandon Fraser and Maria Bello) are living in retirement. Evelyn has become a successful author and very rich. But both bored with live and quickly take up an offer from the Foreign Office to return the Eye Of Shangri-La to China. When they arrive in China they are surprised that their son has dropped out of university and living the high life. Also in China they are forces at work to bring Emperor Han back to live and rebuild China. The ride is one to stop Han from regaining his power.They are many problems with the film, from writing, direction and acting. The story itself is just a carbon copy of the Mummy, but this time set in China. Jet Li is now the mummy and Oded Fehr's role is replaced with Michelle Yeoh. The beginning is even the same as the first two. It hardly anything original. The jokes are poor, John Hannah doesn't have a lot to work with. They are plot holes and just things done just to move the plot or action along, regardless of logic, e.g. the Yetis. What really surprising is the 'writers' of the film wrote the brilliant Spider-man 2. They must have done the for the money and the studio didn't bother asking for a second draft. Finally, the setting of the film is China, why? China was not known for mummification and most films set with Mummies are in Egypt. Even if a change of location was needed, why not South America, North America, Africa or the Middle East? The only reason why is because of the market China offers.The director has been changed from the workmanlike Stephen Sommers to the workmanlike Rob Cohen. The Mummy was Sommers' baby and he at least made the first one fun. Cohen is a hack who only made one good film, Dragon: the Bruce Lee Story. He makes poor casting choices, he can't handle the story, the CGI was poor, he over edits and what is really bad, for a man who made a decent martial arts film and has Jet Li and Michelle Yeoh, directs a terrible first between the two. Most of the time Emperor Han is a CGI creature, so why bother casting Jet Li? Finally Rob Cohen is an unusual choice because he doesn't normally do family films, he film are normally aimed at young men who just action films like Dragon, the Fast and the Furious, xXx and Stealth. It's a sad state of a affairs when you are missing Stephen Sommers.Finally the acting. Rachel Weisz was smart enough to see the script was a dub and rejected her role. Maria Bello replaces her. She was very good in A History of Violence, but poor in this, unable to do a decent English accent. Brandon Fraser had to do the film because of his contract, and it shows, his heart wasn't in the film. He was event side-lined for Luke Ford, an Australian actor who can't act. Plothole hear are how can Brandon Fraser play Luke Ford's dad when they look like cousins and how does Alex O'Connell turn from English in the Mummy Returns to American in Mummy: Tomb of the Dragon Emperor. Jet Li and Michelle Yeoh are both wasted and both are known for doing better work such as Kiss of the Dragon, Fearless, Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon, Tomorrow Never Dies and Sunshine. They are giants of Asian cinema. Finally they is Isabella Leong, an actress from Macau. She is easy on the eye but poor with acting talent. I hope this was just her first English language role and she could improve.Everyone knows that the Mummy series is Indiana Jones lite, lacking Steven Spielberg's and George Lucas' magic touch. This was just a cast in because of Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull (which was poor anyway). Just watch the original Indy films and the Mummy.
Blue Sky Studios has always been under the shadow of Pixar and DreamWorks, but the "Ice Age" series has been popular with families the world over, and so the fourth movie of this lucrative franchise has arrived in the form of Ice Age: Continental Drift After another misadventure with his nut, Scrat falls to the centre of the Earth (without the pressure and heat killing him) and accidentally breaks the world into the continents we know today, which ends up affecting our main protagonists. Manny the Mammoth (Ray Romano) is now an over-protective father to his teenage daughter, Peaches (Keke Palmer) who has fallen for a boy, Ethan (Drake). Sid's (John Leguizamo) family also returns just so they can dump his insane grandmother, Granny (Wanda Sykes) on him, and Diego the Sabre-toothed Cat (Denis Leary) is involved because, eh  because.When the continents split Manny, Sid, Diego and Granny are trapped on an iceberg and end up crossing the vicious pirate Captain Gutt (Peter Dinklage) and his motley crew. While at home, Ellie (Queen Latifah) and Peaches have to lead the animals to safety as Manny tries to make his way back.The "Ice Age" series has always been a safe series; it offers nothing groundbreaking, and "Continental Drift" continues down this route. "Continental Drift" is formulaic and predictable and you can see how plot points will play out from a mile off. But this film will not make children dumber and they are not talked down to. There are worse family movies and children are smart enough to know the "Ice Age" series is not a science or history lesson.The jokes throughout are hit and miss, some working better then others. Being kid friendly, the humour is mostly physical, namely slapstick, and occasionally there are witty lines, mainly from Leary and Romano. Scrat still provides a lot of silent humour and he is a lovable, old-fashioned cartoon character.There are plenty of new additions who would properly return for sequels such as Peaches, Shira (another sabre-toothed cat voiced by Jennifer Lopez) and Granny, but the main characters sometimes felt underused in the franchise they helped build. Diego is given a romantic sub-plot but generally does not do much in the proceedings. Sid too was overshadowed because of the huge amount of comic relief characters, and his material was not funny enough. Dinklage of Game of Thrones fame was a stand-out performer, playing a straight pirate with a lot menace, while Nick Frost was very funny as an extremely stupid elephant seal."Continental Drift" is a movie filled with an all star cast, which raises the questions, were they all needed? Was Heather Morris from Glee really offering anything as a teenage mammoth in a really tiny role, or Seann William Scott and Josh Peck used to their fullest? "Continental Drift" is also a movie overloaded with plots. There is Manny and co. trying to get back to their herd while being chased by Captain Gutt, Diego's love-hate relationship with Shira, and Ellie leading the herd as a awkward, geeky teenager trying to impress a boy and his "cool" friends in a clichéd story. And there is the overarching story of a father having to accept his daughter is growing up, a story we have all seen in many forms before. The combination of all these characters and story elements is too much for one movie when previous entries were much simpler."Continental Drift" is a unremarkable, non-memorable movie, but it is harmless enough and it does have some humorous moments. Without question, worse movies have been made for children.Please visit www.playeraffinity.com
Blue Valentine is a very, depressing and harsh look at the collapse of a relationship and impact it has one people's lives.Dean (Ryan Gosling) and Cindy (Michelle Williams) are a young married couple with a young daughter, Frankie (Faith Wladyka). It is clear their marriage is on the rocks as they argue constantly, Dean is constantly drinking and Cindy thinking of her career. As we follow them over the cause of their final 24 hours together, Blue Valentine looks back at their courtship and start of their relationship when Dean worked for a removal company and Cindy was a high school student.Blue Valentine is a tough watch with its hand-held, almost documentary style cinematography and raw powerful acting from the two leads. The natural dialogue and the use of long single shots actually makes you feel like you are watching a couple rise and fall. It gave the voyeuristic feel as you watch the pair.Gosling and Williams were terrific and they both show why they are two of the best actors of their generation. They were real, defined characters with their positive and negative attitudes and with the flashbacks it is very painful to watch what happens to them. They are some charming scenes in flashbacks when Dean tries to win over Cindy which leads to the two singing and dancing on the street. The deterioration in their relationship affects everyone and everything around them, it could even be argued that there relationship was doomed from the start considering how it started, that Cindy was dating another man and it leads to Cindy's pregnancy. Cindy was a character who wanted to avoid being like her parents, but ends up in an unhappy marriage. Dean is a romantic, a nice guy and a good father, but his character slowly worsen as the film progresses.I want to compare Blue Valentine to Another Year, another film that focuses on ordinary people in their ordinary lives. Both are terrifically acted films but Blue Valentine has much more of edge because there is actually drama, tension and conflict in the story compared to Another Year where it just felt like it meandered about, not knowing where to go.It would be hard to call Blue Valentine an entertaining film, but it is a very engaging film, a character piece lead by two great performance. It is an examination of an event that many people have gone through in its frank honesty.
And with that quotation is a perfect example with everything that is wrong with Terminator 3 and how is doesn't keep in spirit with the James Cameron masterpieces.Set in 2004, John Connor (Nick Stahl) is an out-the-grid drifter. Computer systems around America are starting to fail, and this is a puzzle to Air Force General Robert Brewster (David Andrews), the commander of the new Skynet system. In 2032, the machines had lost the war and sent an advance terminator, the TX (Kristanna Loken). Her mission is to kill John Connor's lieutenants, including Kate Brewster (Claire Danes), a vet and John's future wife. The resistance send a re-programmed Terminator (Arnold Schwarzenegger) to protect John and Kate from the TX and the impending doom of Judgement Day. The Terminator tells John and Kate that John and Sarah Connor never stopped Judgement Day, just delayed and that Judgement Day was just a day away. This sets the heroes into a race against time to stop the event.I bet James Cameron wished he used his alternative ending, it would have stopped any sequel being made. The whole point of the ending Terminator 2: Judgement Day was Judgement Day was stopped and that John and Sarah were free to live their lives. What's the point if they is no hope. James Cameron refused to do T3, saying T2 was the end of it. Linda Hamilton refused to do T3 because Cameron wasn't involved, and Schwarzenegger only did this film because he was paid $30 Million and 20% of the profits, I don't blame him really. It also helped his political ambitions.The choice of director was Jonathan Mostow, a workman-like director who made the awful U-571. Also, the screenwriters were John Brancato and Michael Ferris, wrote Catwoman, that says it all.T3 was basically made as a re-harsh and parody of T2. They is too much humour which wasn't needed at all. The whole point of the first two films was that they were played straight as possible. They are poor lines and no good one-liners (such as 'you are terminated!') compared in the first two films,. When the Terminator steals his clothes off a male-strippers, and eyes stealing them off a fat woman, or that the TX makes her breasts bigger to stop the cops these are all very bad signs. The action scenes were well done, but nothing surprise, nor especially memorable.But the worst part of the film is the characterisation. John Connor goes from punk kid who had to battle the T-1000 to a scared young man who is really dumb, especially since he had to live through. Nick Stahl was a terrible choice to play John Connor. Arnold Schwarzenegger ends up over-acting and being overly emotional, which is surprising seeing he is an actor of limited talents. Claire Danes is a pretty good actress, but isn't served well in this film. Kristanna Loken lacked the menace of being a foe to the Terminator and the screenwriters were just pushing the extremes from large bloke (T1), to skinny man (T2), to skinny woman (T3).The screenwriters attempt to hard to make twists in this film. The only things worth seeing are Earl Boen cameo as Dr. Peter Silberman and the ending. Any true Terminator fan should ignore this film and just focus on T1 and T2.
Victorian England seems to be a gold mine for the film industry with many recent films set in that period: Sweeney Todd, Sherlock Holmes, The Prestige and Burke and Hare being examples. Universal have also decided to look at this period with a remake of it 40s horror film The Wolfman and hope to repeat the success of The Mummy.In 1891 Ben Talbot (Simon Merrells) is murdered by a mysterious creature in a English wood. His actor brother Lawrence (Benicio Del Toro) returns to his family home after receiving a letter from his brother's fiancée Gwen (Emily Blunt). Whilst looking for Ben's killer Lawrence is also attacked by the same creature and ends up suffering from the werewolf curse. Lawrence has to combat the beast within him, his father (Anthony Hopkins) with his own secrets and the Scottish Yard inspector Abberline (Hugo Weaving) who is hunting him.The Wolfman went through development hell. Mark Romanek was going to direct it but left, with Joe Johnston stepping in at the last minute. It was film that had to go through 40 days of pick-up shots, which is about half a film shoot and its release date was pushed back to February 2010, a dead zone for major film releases. Johnston is a perfectly servable director, he is a man who gets the job done and I did enjoy his film Jumanji when I was a child. But with the Wolfman there seems to be a little bit of a disconnect between him and the actors, Johnston seem to want to make a dark Gothic film whilst the actors treaded it as a cheese-fest. The art-direction and dark cinematography were expertly done to give a film a Gothic look and I liked the way the werewolf moved and strike. The film was at its best when it there was a large amount of violence with limps and heads being ripped off. Danny Elfman's score works best when the werewolf is attacking people. Johnston also shows that innocent people do get attack. Some elements of the film reminds me of Francis Ford Coppola's Dracula, a Gothic historical set horror film that even has scenes in a mental asylum. It was very similar in tone and style.The problem for me is with an undeveloped script and some weak casting choices. Many of the actors were obviously have fun whilst making the film like in the pub. Anthony Hopkins was in the film to chew up the scenery and give a strange cross between an English and Irish accent. Hugo Weaving gives his usual slightly sinister performance but he is best performer in the film: he is simply a police officer trying to protect the public. Emily Blunt tries to treat the film more seriously and tries to show that there is some depth of grief and love in her character. She is a sensitive soul who has to do the important, but whilst Blunt does an okay job I personally think she is a little overrated as an actress. Del Toro is the weakest link in the cast. He has proved himself before in many films, but he was miscast in The Wolfman. He could not do an English accent so the writers made out he was raised in America and he gives a lukewarm performance and it seems that he was in The Wolfman for a nice paycheck.Praise has to go to Rick Baker: he is one of the best make-up artists in the business. He makes an effective looking werewolf with fangs, claws and hair. Some people have been critical that he gave the werewolf a flat face but I actually like the classic look to the wolfman, making him a hybrid between a man and a wolf.An uneven film that does have some fun moments.5.5 out of 10.
Billy Wilder is one of the most highly regarded directors of his generation and The Apartment is one of his most acclaimed films. The Apartment is a funny and dramatic, aimed with a script that is witty and tragic. Both Jack Lemmon and Shirley MacLaine have great chemistry and give great performances, Lemmon giving a nervous energy to his character, a little like Woody Allen but much less self-obsessed whilst MacLaine has plenty of charm and wit, but also has tragedy about her. The comedy is gentle amidst the controversial material for the time, filled with witty lines, character interactions and subtle sight gags. We get plenty of melodrama and the characters go through typical arcs, but the screenplay is so well written and the direction and acting that it makes The Apartment a rewarding experience, even during its darkest moments.
I like the Grand Theft Auto series, and I think even thought I've only played it for a week that this is the best in series so far and hope that this time of gaming continues.The basic plot of the game is your character Niko Bellic is an Eastern European immigrant who is invited to America by his cousin Roman who told him that he is rich, successful, lives in a mansion and having lots of sex with different American woman. When Niko arrives he found out that Roman was lying, that he runs a taxi company in a Brooklyn like area, struggling in his love life and is in trouble with Eastern European gangsters. It is up to Niko to help his cousin out and rise up the criminal ladder.The graphics are amazing and very detailed, the games designers took get care to make the city and people as realistic as possible and make everyone different. There are get little details, such as seeing bullet holes in your car if you are in a chase with the police. There is a GPS system to make it easier find your way around the city and there are many fun ways to kill people. The game is way plotted and is very cinematic in its approach. This adds to my theory that computer games are become more and more like films. The game-play is good, an easy to use system once you get use to it. There is just so much in this game which is hard to put in a review. It is humorous, violence, has a lot of mini games like pool and darts and like the GTA 3 games a number of subplots.This is a great game, but it is not for children. I just hope that Uwe Boll never gets the chance to make it into a film.
The idea of film being used as a medium for political themes and socio-economic commentary is nothing new, even recently with films such as Wall Street: Money Never Sleeps and Margin Call aiming to tackle the 2008 financial crisis. But few films have been as unsubtle as Killing Them Softly.Set to the backdrop of the 2008 election, the criminal underworld of an American city has been hit by its own financial crisis after a mob poker game is robbed by two criminals (Scoot McNairy and Ben Mendelsohn). With no trades or money being moved, a mob manager (Richard Jenkins) brings in a fixer, Jackie Cogan (Brad Pitt), to solve the situation. But none of his actions brings back confidence, whether right or wrong.Writer/director Andrew Dominik admirably uses a gangster story as a metaphor for the financial crisis, but the handling was atrocious. Dominik has no faith in his audience to draw these connections, and even worse, come away with its own conclusions; he opts to spoon-feed us the cliff notes as we watch.This is most evident with the constant use of speeches by George W. Bush and Barack Obama made at time, enforcing the parallels Dominik wanted to make. There are constant references to terminology used at the time, particularly the theme of bringing back confidence to the world, the theme that public perspective is more important than actual actions and we are reminded that the gangster world's situation is the same as the financial world's one. This forceful approach does not allow us to see a natural story.Killing Them Softly is a very dialogue-driven film that breaks the old cinematic maxim of "show, don't tell." We are told that the mob has turned corporate and that there is a crisis, but we do not get to see it. It would have been more interesting to see mob bosses arguing and coming up with theories and seeing that gangsters were unwilling to make any deals in the midst of the crisis. Killing Them Softly ends up rather dull as a result.There are some moments that show what Dominik is capable of: the robbery scene was filled with tension and things felt like they would actually kick off. Whenever violence was used in general, it was incredibly grim and brutal. There is a highly stylised moment when Cogan commits his first assassination, completely played out in slow motion  a brilliant little sequence. The film hits hardest in these scenes.The big saving grace of Killing Them Softly is the acting. There is a great cast with Pitt, Jenkins and James Gandolfini being the biggest draws. They were committed actors doing the best they could, elevating the dry material provided with excellent delivery and chemistry. Pitt and McNairy played the most likable (and I use that term loosely) characters, and were the most well-drawn and conflicted characters in the film. McNairy was the most human, reacting naturally to his situation, and Pitt is able to be cold-hearted and professional when he acts upon his deadly task.Killing Them Softly is a film that feels its political parallels are enough of a mask for it to be seen as an intelligential masterpiece, but it feels too demeaning to have everything spelled out like that, which was made worse given the story played second fiddle to these political parallels. There was potential for a great film if there was a good re-write, but it ends up being one of biggest disappointments of 2012.Please visit www.entertainmentfuse.com
Aardman Animations have a great history since their formation in the 1980s, from making the Wallace and Gromit series, Chicken Run to the Creature Comfort series. Their last film was a CGI affair, Arthur Christmas and was one of my favourite films of 2011, but The Pirates! In An Adventures With Scientists sees Aardman go back to what they do best, stop motion animation.In 1838 the British Empire dominate the high seas, with the except for a pocket of pirates, who are having their Pirate of the Year competition. The Pirate Captain (Hugh Grant) and his motley crew, including a very enthusiastic Albino (Russell Tovey), a woman with a fake beard (Ashley Jensen), a loyal second in command (Martin Freeman) and a fish in hat decide to enter the competition. But the other entrances are tough, leaving The Pirate Captain despondence. Whilst plundering the Seven Seas, Pirate Captain and his crew come across Charles Darwin (David Tennant) who claims the crew's "parrot" could the scientific discovery of the year. But they have to enter the Lion's Den, going to London and face the pirate hating Queen Victoria (Imelda Staunton).The Pirates! In An Adventure With Scientist is a very funny film, filled with so many jokes, wordplay, visual jokes and slapstick. Aardman is just great at making family films, they know what children like, that they don't want to be talked down to or want humour based on the lowest common dominator. And they know how to appeal to adults, not relying on pop culture references. The humour has a board appeal, cleverly written and there is something for everyone. I also believe that this is going to be a film where you need to see it again to catch more subtle visual gags, I possibility missed a load in what is fast paced film from Peter Lord.But it is not all comedy, there are some fun action sequences, even if their have a comic edge to them, from the sword fights to a chase in a house. The animation is fantastic, as expected from a Aardman: it is quick, fluid and very detailed and keeping with the using Aardman style.There are many great characters and voice actors in the film. Hugh Grant's voice was unrecognised as The Pirate Captain who is ambition, a bit dense and can be riddled with self-doubt. He was a great character along with the other pirates, from the loyal Number Two who is reassuring and protective of The Pirate Captain, to the funny female pirate, to my favourite, the Albino Pirate who has some of the best lines. Tennant was very funny as Darwin, as someone who earnestly wants a girlfriend and acts as the villain for the most part with Bobo, the chimpanzee who communicates with his cards (another great character in the film). Staunton was great too, bringing her Dolores Umbridge character to Queen Victoria at times. The problem was some of the rival pirates, Jeremy Piven particular who felt like he was included in the film to appeal to an American Audience.There are a few jokes that worked only for a British audiences would get and do not expend a history or science lesson from the film, but that is part of the fun. Plus the joke involving the plague ship was poorly dubbed because it was last minute change.An added bonus is the great soundtrack, adding to the fun feel the film was going for.Pirates! Is a very fun film that whole family. There is plenty of jokes throughout and there is something for all audiences. It is a must see for fans of Aardman.
Because of the disaster that was Doomsday Neil Marshall's reputation as a director took a bit of a dent. To rectify this he turned to a completely different genre, a historical epic based on the legend of the Ninth Legion of Rome who disappeared in Scotland.In 117AD the Roman Empire are fighting a loosing battle in their most northern frontier in Scotland, then known as Caledonia. The Picts, lead by their king Gorlacon (Ulrich Thomsen) has been leading a brutal guerrilla campaign against the Romans and during a raid capture our protagonist, Quintus Dias (Michael Fassbender). In Roman occupied England General Titus Flavius (Dominic West) and the Ninth Legion has been ordered to invade and find Gorlacon. But they are lead into a trap and only a small band survive, including Quintus who the legion rescues. Quintus and the soldiers have to get back to Roman territory whilst being chased by Gorlacon and tracker Etain (Olga Kurylenko) who are out for revenge.Marshall sets out to give Centurion an earthy look, colours of outfits are toned down, his camera filters give the film a deliberately dark and grainy look and the whole movie was shot on location in muddy woods and fields in winter. But as a man from a horror background Marshall ensures there is a lot of gore and blood. It's a little over the top but it is fun to see and Marshall is certainly inventive involving methods of death. The battle scenes are deliberately chaotic and feels and looks like the opening from Gladiator. We are brought into the heart of a battle and it was very well done considering the budget. But whilst the battles were well done the one on one fights were too choppy and quickly cut. It was hard to tell what was happening. I prefer to actually see fights, have shots that last more then a second or two and keep cuts to a minimum. Marshall and his cinematography Sam McCurdy also employ some sweeping shots of the mountains and the landscape, particularly looking at the ground with a bird's eye view then panning the camera upwards. It was much very like Peter Jackson's Lord of the Rings to show the breathtaking scenery and how small the figures are in the wide expands. I expect that Marshall was trying to do for Scotland what Peter Jackson did for his native New Zealand.The story overall is simple but simple does not mean bad. It is still has a manner of life and death for the Romans and Marshall certainly makes a very fast paced adventure. But Marshall also does allow us to get to the know the characters and he employs a strong cast, Fassbender, West, Imogen Poots, David Morissey and Riz Ahmed. Added to that Marshall attempts to show a more complex picture, that both sides are as brutal as each other, that the Picts want to humiliate the Romans, that the Romans are very brutal occupiers using violence and rape to enforce their rule, that the governor is thinking of his political position and that sides think what they are doing is right. No one is being evil just for the sake of being evil like in the God awful Braveheart and that there are tensions within both camps. It was a mix picture and no one is truly a good or bad guy for most of the film.Since the success of the awesomely entertaining 300 there has been a big expansion of historically set action films, Black Death, Clash of the Titans, Solomon Kane, Ironclad, Immortals and many foreign efforts. Centurion is the best post 300 film within the genre so far, a competently made actioneer.Historically it most like that the Ninth Legion was transferred to Germany and then either disbanded or amalgamated with another legion. But compared to the God Awful Braveheart Centurion is like Downfall for historical actuality.Overall Centurion is very enjoyable and deserves a 7.5 out of 10.
Since completing the Dark Knight Trilogy writer/director/God-to-Nerds Christopher Nolan was free to make any project he wanted and chose to work with his brother to make his sci-fi epic and his own version of 2001: A Space Odyssey, a bold and fantasy film.In the future Earth is dying, the best and brightest have to become farmers. Most crops are failing and the only thing people can grow is corn. Dust storms are constant and Earth is slowing becoming uninhabitable. Cooper (Matthew McConaughey) is a widowed astronaut turned farmer with two children who ends up being asked by NASA to pilot a mission to save mankind by going into a wormhole on Saturn and find a habitable: but doing this meaning leaving his family and possibly never seeing them again.Interstellar is a highly ambitious film and like Inception Nolan threats his audience with the intelligence they deserve. Interstellar is a very complex films with its look at quantum physics, space travel, wormholes and black holes and time and it will require several viewings to truly understand it all. But on a basic level Interstellar story is easy to follow as it is both a story of astronauts going into the unknown to find a way to rescue humanity, the personal story about the relationship of Cooper and his daughter and the important choices people would face in this scenario.The story elements borrowed from 2001: A Space Odyssey as humanity explore an phenomenon left by an mysterious force and a man having to comprehend something beyond human understanding. There is also a similar premise to Danny Boyle's Sunshine as one last crew are sent to save humanity and the Matthew McConaughey sci-fi film Contact.The special effects are fantastic as you would expect and looks glorious, particularly the ice planet. The look of Earth is very much like Looper as Earth as fallen into a state of regression, society looking just to survive and scientific advancement and questions are discouraged. Environmental issues are also touched on as humanity has over used Earth's resources and forced into austerity because of it, people being forced to make do and with the government not investing in research. Interstellar could also been see as a criticism of certain interest groups in America that want to tell children a inaccurate world view and stop scientific research that they see as an offend to their viewpoints.Like 2001: A Space Odyssey Interstellar has themes about human discovery and need for advancement. There are also plot ideas from 2001: A Space Odyssey, Sunshine, Contact and even the Lost in Space film.As well as the sci-fi story there is the human, Earthbound story about the relationship between Cooper and Murph, Cooper's desire to return to Earth and the love the characters share, turning into the love into something quantifiable. The relationship between the two is where the film is most like Contact, as well as its themes about science on Earth. One of my favourite scenes in the film is when Cooper watches a series of videos and he is slowly overcome with emotion, with the camera focused mostly on McConaughey while as he comes overwhelmed.A criticism that has been laid onto Interstellar is that the film sound mixing, with Hans Zimmer's score being very overpowering. But it is fantastic music and Zimmer does some of his best work with Nolan. The music is organ based, being unique and influenced by Bach. And there are times where the film uses silence in space, a homage to Kubrick's sci-fi classic.Interstellar is an ambitious, complex sci-fi film that is rewarding. It is complicated with its scientific theories about space travel and time, yet its story and themes are still accessible for most audiences. A must see for any sci-fi fan.
If you are regular cinema goer to Odeon Cinemas in the UK you would have bombarded with advertisement for Despicable Me 2, since Christmas. Despite this advertising overload to some viewers, Despicable Me 2 turns out to fun continuous for the series, even if it does occasionally retread some of the same material.Since the events of the first film Gru (Steve Carell) has given up being a villain and sets out to be good father to Margo (Miranda Cosgrove), Edith (Dana Gaier) and Agnes (Elsie Fisher) with the help of his little yellow Minions. But a new villain has emerged by stealing a secret Russian lab with formula which can turn anything into a purple hairy destructive beast. With no leads the Anti-Villain League (AVL) recruits Gru to find the villain who is located in a mall. Yet sparks starts to between Gru and his partner, Agent Lucy Wilde (Kristen Wigg) while someone is kidnapping the Minions.Despicable Me 2 continues what worked in the first film, the physical and visual humour, the slapstick and the Minions. This film has much more Minion action as they hurt each other, dance or simply enjoying life and this time they play a much bigger part to the story. The Minions are fun creatures and fans of them will be satisfied with their additional screen time. But the Minions are not the only physically comic characters, Despicable Me 2 introduces a new character, the psycho chicken and he is awesome as a guard dog and provides great humour.Wigg is not a new actress to series, but her character is new. Wigg gave an enthusiastic performance as the eager Agent Wilde, a woman who loves her job. Wigg is known comic actress and she has excellent comedic timing to enhance her lines. Occasionally she does comes off as an embarrassing mom and Wilde is a very Wiggequese character, so people who dislike Wigg will struggle to like her character. But for most people there are plenty of character qualities to make her very likable. Steve Coogan is also a new addition to the series as Silas Ramsbottom (ha, ha, bottom): he is a much more serious, deadpan performance but he still makes an impression and he has some good lines.Benjamin Bratt was brought in as a last minute replacement for Javier Bardem and Al Pacino as the film's antagonist. For someone who had to work on his role very quickly he brought out a larger then live character as Eduardo the dancing Mexican restaurant owner. He is a much more entertaining character than Vector from the last film.The original Despicable Me had the visual look of a Saturday Morning Cartoon with better animation. The sequel underplays this element and has more of a Bondesque, The Incredibles look to. The AVL Headquarters more like a Bond villain's lair. The backstory of the villain El Macho, the most manly villain ever, was told in very entertaining flashbacks and his manly death felt very much like the superhero deaths in The Incredibles.In comparison to the first film, Despicable Me 2 does sometimes meander and looks at subplots, particular Margo falling for a boy and Gru's love life. The flow was not as natural as Despicable Me. At times, Despicable Me 2 plays like a romantic-comedy as well as a sci-fi animated film.Near the end of Despicable Me 2 repeats some of the same plot points of the first film, even if the make-up is slightly different. It could be argued that this is simply following typical screen writing tropes but it generally takes small step back for a film that actually worked as a continuation to the story. There are also a couple of repeated jokes, but it could easily be seen as a running jokes.Despicable Me 2 is a delightful family film that will please fans of the original and adults and children alike. It is a film that plenty of humour with different types of jokes during its run time and serves as what a sequel should be, a continuous of a story. The audience I was with absolutely loved it.Please visit www.entertainmentfuse.com
The Hunger Games has now entered into its penultimate instalment with Mockingjay Part 1, splitting the final novel into two films and shaking up the formula of the series. It has been met with some negative reception, but hell, I liked it and see it on par with the first Hunger Games film, continuing the story while keeping it themes about the media. Mockingjay changes up The Hunger Games into a sci-fi war film as Katniss has to be for the face of the revolution against the Capital and President Snow. The themes of media image, personality and manipulation are still present and this time worked in the context of war propaganda and media warfare, playing a big part in the fight for hearts and minds. The cast is for the most part is excellent, particularly Jennifer Lawrence as the traumatised victim forced to become the face of the rebellion, as her actions in the previous films have had unintended consequences. But Liam Hemsworth as Gale was very stiff compared to the rest of the cast, not being able to match their standards.There are changes from the novel, some are simply cutting out the fat like the hunting and the daily regimen of living and showing some scenes that we did not get to see in the novel. There are a few moments added to intense tension to scenes and a few characters replace other ones: but on the whole Part 1 is mostly faithful adaptation of the first half of the novel.Director Francis Lawrence continue to be a solid director with the exploring of the ruins of District 12 being very haunting and the big action sequence, showing the war. But the portrayal of President Coin (Julianne Moore) was not shown to be as a cold or hostile to Katniss as she was in the novel, saving it for the fourth film. This is a minor issue but I pictured Coin wearing her hair in the bun. James Newton Howard raises his game and gives us the best music score in the series so far.Mockingjay Part 1 is a solid film that fans of the series will be pleased with.
The death of a child is one of the hardest and unimaginable events to ever to happen to someone, regardless how it happens. The adaptation of David Lindsay-Abaire's play aims to tackles this tough subject in a really well action drama, Rabbit Hole.Becca (Nicole Kidman) and Howie Corbett (Aaron Eckhart), are a well-off married in Yonkers, New York, who are struggling with the grief after the death of their son eight months ago. Becca is very cold and distance and wants to forget whilst Howie does not want to move and watches a video on his phone every night. Their marriage is struggling and soon both of them go on their own journeys: Becca starts to follow and befriend the boy, Jason (Miles Teller) who ran over her son and Howie continues with going to group therapy when he starts to get close with another woman, Gabby (Sandra Oh).Rabbit Hole is clearly an actors film and it was clear the characters were what the actors were interested in. Kidman and Eckhart had to be excellent for their tough roles they had to play. Their actually have to take the opposite journey, Becca needing to accept the memory of her son, whilst Howie actually has to let go a bit. They are both struggling emotionally and in their relationship, which is what you would expect and in real life a lot of couples do break up if a tragedy like that happens.The direction by John Cameron Mitchell is standard. There was not much he could have done. There was a good scene of invention when Becca and Howie having an argument about everything that has happened and the uses a fast flowing hand-held style, keeping cuts limited. The tone throughout is bleak and grounded and you did feel their pain. Anton Sanko provided a very gentle, fitting score for the personal drama throughout. Sometimes it felt like Mitchell told Eckhart to overact when he is angry but Eckhart does he best with though scenes.The theme of grief and loosing a child, no matter what the age or circumstances, is constant throughout and that many people have different ways of dealing with grief. It is handled in different ways, from the main two characters, Becca's mother (Dianne Wiest) and in Jason's (Miles Teller). Sometimes people are very selfish and self-centred in their grief but it is film most people are not looking for a wider reason for why it happened. There is a broad theme of moving on for all the characters, Becca and Howie in their problems of their grief and relationship, the relationship between Becca and her mother and Becca's sister Izzy (Tammy Blanchard) is forced to grow up from the woman who gets into bar fights, to someone who has to accept responsible when she finds out she is pregnant.Rabbit Hole is at times an awkward watch and it is hard to call it entertainment. It is an interesting character study that tries to tackle a tough subject. It a solid film and the actors deserved the praise they received.
Starting with dream-like visual thanks to the bright colour pallet, quick filming style and framing, Moonrise Kingdom is the latest film to come from the strange world of Wes Anderson that should delight fans and most newcomers to his work.On the New England island of New Penzance, this quirky 1965 set adventure tells the story of two 12-year-olds, orphan Sam Shakusky (Jared Gilman) and the troubled Suzy Bishop (Kara Hayward), two runaways who try to escape their dysfunctional lives. As their friendship and romance starts to bloom the island's police chief, Captain Sharp (Bruce Willis) leads a search with Scout Master Ward (Edward Norton), Suzy's lawyers parents (Bill Murphy and Frances McDormand), and a troop of boy scouts to find the wayward youths as the film becomes more and more surreal and provides plenty of what the hell moments.There will be people who would be hostile to Anderson's work and style, but Moonrise Kingdom should still be able to entertain the majority of filmgoers because of the excellent screenplay that provides a touching story, witty characters, and excellent jokes. The witty dialogue was enhanced by great performances, particularly from Willis and Norton who both have engaging screen presence.Anderson's gives us a technically wonderful film that uses tracking shots to keep the flow of the comedy going as foreground and background gags are presents. There are beautifully framed shots of the actors when the character is focused on them and long takes to maximise the performances. The cinematography of wide shots, the locations, and set design helps adds to the surrealism of this world and some of the more whimsical scenes as the children adventure into the wild.Moonrise Kingdom is lead by two first time child actors and they do a fine job; both Gilman and Hayward should go far in acting if they choose to continue. Moonrise Kingdom is a typical story about two outsiders who embark on a unusual friendship that becomes a more adult romantic one in nature. Be warned, there will be semi-naked prepubescent children on screen, which add creepiness to proceedings. The film would have failed if Gilman and Hayward were not compelling performers, but they were up to the job.Both children come from dysfunctional backgrounds, a continuous theme of Anderson films. Sam is an orphan who is describe as emotionally disturbed but even though he is a little eccentric, he is a decent kid and for the most part it is just a case of a boy's situation forcing a label on him. His former parents were selfish, passing the buck because they did not know how to deal with Sam.On the other hand, Suzy is from a well-off middle class family, yet she is the one with emotional issues, ranging from being cold and distance to a willingness to use violence. She is a product of her environment because her parents hardly communicate with each other except for legal speak and use megaphones to round up the children. Suzy is of course going to act out in an environment like this. It is an illustration that problems involving childhood exist in the middle classes and that parents over complicate the issue instead of tackling it head one.The parents and guardians are selfish, only caring about themselves instead of the children. Anderson uses Tilda Swinton's character to take satirical swipes at Social Services who look at a child's file more then the child themselves. The adults argue and fall into an anarchical state, even Willis and Norton who play the more likable of the adult characters are still faulted in their actions, lives, and/or abilities.Throughout the majority of the film is the percussion heavy music in the background that keeps up the tempo and rarely stops. It gives the film a more dramatic tone as the action builds up; it sometimes gives a western feel as the children survive in the wild or tension during the various chases the children endure.Moonrise Kingdom is a strange and surreal experience that will provide smiles and chuckles when you are soaked into Anderson's weird world. It will appeal mostly to Anderson's loyal fans, but there is still enough material in the film for non-fans to enjoy as we examine an unusual friendship.Please visit www.playeraffinity.com
This does not star Kurt Russell, but rather allows him what amounts to an extended cameo. This work is more centered around the "son of" story line than it is the actual super heroes themselves, thereby failing to deliver the appropriate level of entertainment, and contributing instead, that enigmatic substance known as "kid appeal." I expected more. But having said that, there is more to this work than meets the eye. The story is modeled after the old classic "B" science fiction movies we hate to love, but do. The effects are nothing spectacular, but are still above what you would expect, all things considering. And beneath the camp, lies a stronger feeling, reminiscent of a classic superhero story, yet it still fails to achieve the desired affect; if only marginally.It was entertaining and I still had great fun in watching it.This rates an 8.1/10 from...the Fiend :.
I admit that I am not a fan of the slasher genre, I neither find it entertaining or scary. But I am a fan of John Carpenter's films and Halloween is meant to be the best of it's sub-genre.The film starts in 1963 when a six year old boy Michael Myers murders his older sister who was babysitting him on Halloween. 15-years later he escapes from prison and returns to his old town on Halloween. He starts to stalk Laurie (Jamie Lee Curtis), and her two friends Annie (Nancy Kyes) and Lynda (P.J. Soles). They are normal girls, Laurie is smart girl who on Halloween is going to babysit a local child. Michael Myers starts to hunt them down. Only Michael's psychiatrist Dr. Loomis (Donald Pleasence) can stop him.With a budget of $320,000, Halloween was a massive financial success, making $60 Million in the US alone. It also had a good critical response, having 93% rating on Rotten Tomatoes. It was so successful that became a massive series and recently been remade by Rob Zombie. This was a film that also gave Jamie Lee Curtis her first film role. This film tells a basic story of a killer hunting the streets of a small town. A more realistic setting to say the Friday 13th series where the kids go to an abandon camp with electricity or phones, take drugs, have sex and end up getting killed by a killer with a knife. One of the best aspects of Halloween is that it doesn't try to explain why Michael Myers is a killer, he just does it because he is evil. That is a more interesting and scary then when a film tries to justify why the killer is the way he is. The other decent aspect is the film doesn't such too much violence, unlike modern films where they show everything. It's more effective when there is little violence. John Carpenter also does have some good shots and scenes during the film, particularly in the beginning when 6-year-old Michael kills his sister.But there are sadly some problems. Except for the acting of Jamie Lee Curtis and Donald Pleasence, most is weak. There is also weak characterisation, making out that of the girls is a sex-crazed cheerleader. There isn't much dept to the film. As well there is a leery nature to the film, with Michael spying on teenage girls being his targets. I also have to question did women just not wear bras in the 70s? Also if there was some real-world logic behind the film, surely wouldn't there be a bulletin to warn people that a there was a killer on the loose?But it is possibly the best of it's genre.
Goodfellas is one of my favourite films and is my second favourite Martin Scorsese film (Raging Bull is my first). This is one of the first modern gangster films that look at the working class/file and rank members of the Mafia, compared to films like the Godfather which looked at the upper ranks.Goodfellas is based on the book Wise Guys, an autobiographical account by Henry Hill, a former member of the Mafia. The film looks at rise in the ranks from a 14-year-old boy to becoming a successful member, making money and becoming happily married to spells in prison and leaving the Mafia. The film looks at the working of the crime organisation, but also looks at Hill's (Ray Liotta (easily his best film)) personal life, such as his courting of Karen (Lorraine Bracco), from an unsuccessful double date to marriage. It looks at his relationships with other Mafia members and how they work together and act like a family themselves. It does not show the Mafia as either good or evil, even thought they do bad things, and makes the character human. Tommy DeVito (Joe Pesci), is well played as a psychopath and this film got Pesci an Oscar for best supporting actor. The casting is brilliant, as already mentioned this is Liotta's best performance, Robert De Niro is always good, so Joe Pesci and Bracco is good and she ends up in the Soparnos.This film is excellent and should have won more Oscars, especially best director. It has also been very influential in the gangster genre, from the Soparnos, to films like Donnie Brasco to Scorese own film Casino, and has been parodied in programs like the Simpsons and Futurama. Goodfellas is a must see movie.
The original 1987 is a beloved sci-fi action film, made at a time when action movies were allowed to be violence and filled with satirical comedy thanks to the skills of director Paul Verhoeven. The sequel tries to repeat the success but Irvin Kershner is unable to match Verhoeven's skills.The Detroit of the future is a cesspool of crime, delinquency, poverty and urban decay. The city is broke and OCP are planning to take over the government, the police are on strike because of wage and pension cuts and a new powerful drug known as Nuke is on the streets, controlled by a cult leader, Cain (Tom Noonan). Only Robocop (Paul Weller) is able to hold the peace, but a scientist at OCP, Dr. Faxx (Belinda Bauer) sees Robocop as being obsolete and wants him replaced by Robocop II, but sees the best candidates to be psychopaths.The filmmakers of Robocop 2 wanted to recapture the satirical and comic elements of the first film, even using the news reports and fake adverts but it felt like the heart or belief behind the ideals like Verhoeven had. It was more shoehorned into the film then actually trying to saying anything about society of the time. There are also attempts at satire when a PR team think how best to reprogram Robocop, making a overly cheery creation who is unable to do any crime fighting because of the conflicting directives. These plot points about the effects about designing by committee lasts five minutes and does not have any overall bearing on the plot. It could have been cut and they would no effect on the plot.A random scene that also felt like it wanted to be darkly comic but out of place and misjudged was when a little league team are robbing a shop, which is done for comic value. It was just a strange way to try and show how awful and crime infested this world.Kershner is best known for being the director of Star Wars Episode V: The Empire Strikes Back and he brought a darker tone. The best elements of Robocop 2 is the darker parts of the film, showing the crime work with people stealing and killing each other and the constantly drug dealing and drug use. It does have A Clockwork Orange esque feeling to it as a society on the edge of collapse.One of the most controversial elements is the character Hob (Gabriel Damon), a 12-year-old boy who is a psychopathic killer. The idea of him was sound, that this is an amoral, poverty stricken world that even forces children and teenagers into criminality and violence with Hob being killer or a drug runner for Cain. But he becomes the leader of the gang, when it would been more believable if Hob was a member of a street gang or offer Robocop a challenge because he was a killer but a child so cannot do much about him. Another story problem is the willingness of some characters to go to psychopaths and death row inmates instead of more logically options likes special forces soldiers.The action was very well done and perfectly bloody and violence. There is some excellent use of slow motion animation and special effects: it was detailed and Robocop was given a big challenge in the form of RoboCain, a crazed, powerful robot with weapons and a willingness to cause carnage. Noonan did make an excellent villain throughout the film.Robocop 2 is watchable with its violence and action, but it no way near matching the original film and needed a tidy, more thought-out screenplay.
As well as being the year of superheroes, 2008 was also the year when Hollywood looked at Chinese history and culture. Two big films of that year were The Mummy: Tomb of the Dragon Emperor, and the Forbidden Kingdom. Hollywood was looking at the big market China and East Asia offers, and therefore the money making potential. Dreamworks animation is one of the biggest studios in the world and is on a mission to challenge Pixar for dominate. They have made some good films like Shrek, Shrek 2 and Antz. But they have made some real duds over the years, like Shark Tale, Bee Movie and The Road to El Dorado and ended an association with Aardman Animations which did lead to Wallace and Gromit: Curse of the Were-Rabbit and Chicken Run. Luckily Kung Fu Panda is a return to form.In an anthropomorphic version of Ancient China, Po (Jack Black) is a young, fat lazy panda who works in his father's restaurant. His father wants Po to take over the restaurant but the Panda has a bigger ambition, he wants to be a kung fu master. Master Oogway (Randall Duk Kim), the wisest and oldest of all the kung fu masters has a vision that the evil kung fu master Tai Lung (Ian McShane) is about to escape from prison and cause havoc around the valley of peace. A new dragon warrior needs to be chosen to face the snow leopard. What baffles everyone is Po is picked to be the Dragon Warrior, above the Furious Five: Tigress (Angelina Jolie), Monkey (Jackie Chan), Crane (David Cross), Mantis (Seth Rogen) and Snake (Lucy Lu). Master Shifu (Dustin Hoffman) sets out to make sure that Po quits and a new Dragon Warrior can be picked.Pixar films have a lot of heart and story behind them. The Shrek series sets out to be as entertaining for the adults as well as for children, and are filled pop-culture references. Kung Fu Panda sets out to be child friendly, family entertainment. The humour in is this film is slapstick, but it's good slapstick, and there isn't toilet humour which would be easy for films like this. They are good jokes throughout, mostly physical. There is also very good action scenes throughout, and because the film is animated, and the characters are animals, there is a much wider scope with what can happen. The directors and animation department do an excellent job in this film. The story itself is based on martial arts films, and it works well as a coming of age story. Its sends out a good message for children. They are a few Chinese proverbs during the film.The animation is excellent. It is crisp throughout the action. They are a lot of details with all the character designs, including minor things like spiky fur.There is a good voice cast, but for family films it shouldn't matter who is doing the voices. Children don't care and an adult isn't going to watch a film because it has a big name actor. Saying that Jack Black was perfectly casted as the lead character, and Dustin Hoffman and Michael Clarke Duncan offer good support. Ian McShane is good as always. However, casting big actors as the Furious Five offered nothing. It was the lessen known men, Seth Rogan and David Cross that were the big, particularly Cross who gave Crane a dead-pan nature. Jackie Chan should have been given more.A good family film.
Sequels to Oscar winning films normally don't type out to be that good and end up being flops. Luckily The Godfather: Part II is just as good as the original. It is a bold mix of a sequel and a prequel, showing Michael Corleane's decline in character as he leads the Corleane crime family in the late 1950s/early 1960s, and showing Vito from a poor orphan Silian boy in 1901 and rises up the ranks of the Mafia from 1917 onwards.Michael Corleane had been running the family for around five years and moved them to Nevanda. Things seem to be going well, he has political influence and is gaining money from legitimate means. But they are turning times ahead, having to deal with a conflict with a Jewish Gangster, Hyman Roth, a traitor within his ranks, the FBI and a Senate committee investigation. He is suffering family problems (both crime and personal) and is around during the Cuban revolution. Vito starts the film as a 9-year-old boy and all the male members of his family have been murdered by Don Cirrio, a powerful local Mafia chief in Silicy. He see his mother beg for mercy before getting killed by Cirrio's men and flees to New York. In 1917 the Italian neighbourhood he lives was run by local gangster, Don Fanucci. He gets tired of his iron fist rule and ends up murdering the man and taking his position. With that he becomes respected in the Italian community and a leading gangster and then looks for revenge for his family.This a complex, well plotted film, with many aspects of Mafia life being looked at from a board time-period. It is well written, brilliantly directed, Francis Ford Coppala at his best, and some great acting. It also has some good quotes which I think are some of the best in the series, like the 'I know it was you' bit and 'You are not a friend and your are not a brother'.The Godfather Part II is a great example of a gangster film and I believe that it approach of a sequel/prequel influenced other films like Infernal Affairs Part II and III. This was a very worthy Oscar winning film and I think that this film is just as good as the first. I don't know how it compares to Part III because I haven't watched it, but I haven't heard good think about it.
This is brilliant film, a great example that Germany is producing some of the best cinema in Europe and is starting to face its past. This film is also one of the most historically accurate films ever made. Downfall focuses on Hitler and the last few days of the Nazi regime. Hitler is seen as an evil in the sense that he did order the Holocaust (but its only mentioned in passing) and ordered the destruction of Germany which Albert Speer refused to obey. But Downfall also shows that Hitler did love Eva Braun, his dog and he was good with children. The film also showed that Hitler was loosing the plot, being in ideas of grandeur and that German was going to win the war despite the Russians overrunning Berlin. Hitler is also shown to be a kind man sometimes, especially to secretary Traudl Junge. The Swiss actor Bruno Ganz played the role perfectly, not portraying Hitler as a one-dimensional villain.As well as looking at Hitler the film also looks at the wider collapse of the Nazi regimes, seeing many members getting killed, committing suicide or getting captured by the allies. The battle of Berlin is looked at, seeing how citizens were affected and Hitler youth members being used to fight the Russians. They were political power-plays also being made during this point in the war, especially by Goering, Goebbels and Himmer. There is a wider evil to the Nazis outside Hitler, but it also shows that they were some better people within them.To anyone is who is interested in the Nazis, the Battle of Berlin or World War 2 then this movie is getting viewing.A little footnote at the end, I also like how the filmmaker covered themselves because no one is 100% sure how Hitler and Eva Braun killed themselves.
There have been many cases of two films with similar plots coming out similar times. 2013's offering of this occurrence are two films about the White House being taken over by terrorist, the R-rated, but lower budgeted Olympus Has Fallen and the big-budget PG-13 film White House Down.John Cale (Channing Tatum)is a bodyguard for the Speaker of the House, Eli Raphelson (Richard Jenkins) and wants to join the Secret Service so he can serve on President Barack Obama, sorry, I mean James Sawyer (Jamie Foxx) so he can impress his daughter, Emily (Joey King). One the day of his interview the President announces a peace plan to withdraw all American troops from the Middle East, much to the annoyance of the industrial-military complex.Cale is unsuccessful at getting the job but when terrorists and mercenaries take over the White House and the head of the President's detail, Martin Walker (James Woods) betrays the President, Cale ends up being the only man to stop the terrorists, save the president, hostages and most important of all, his own daughter.White House Down is as stupid as I expected, it is too long (like most of Roland Emmerich's films) and its plot falls apart if you think about. But it is enjoyable enough because of its stupidity. It is a clichéd piece, with plot points and who the main bad guy really is. Hell, some of the film's ideas and the structure of the day makes White House Down look like 24: the Movie. Even elements of the story where taken from the fourth season of 24.Emmerich is an accomplished action director and the action is strong in White House Down. The shoot outs were well handled and the fist fights between Tatum and Jason Clarke were very entertaining and well shot. The action was a little hamstrung because of the PG-13 rating, especially considering White House Down has a very 90s vive to it (a part of the ending is lifted from The Rock). When the action starts it is non-stop should please action fans and White House Down at least has the good grace to not take itself too seriously, such as having the President using a rocket-launder and a tour guide ending up becoming a hero.The other strong element is the cast. As well as the already mentioned Tatum and Foxx, we get the likes of Jason Clarke, Richard Jenkins, Maggie Gyllenhaal, Joey King and James Woods. Tatum certainly has the physique and channels his inner John McClane and worked well with Fox. Clarke too was awesome as the main henchman, also having physical presence and very believable as a vengeful special forces soldier turned mercenary: he should be considered for being the next Bond villain. But whilst King is a good child actor her character felt it was written to be older, she was an 11-year-old who speaks like an 18-year-old, a child who is obsessed with politics and seems to handle the violence in-front of her very well.For a Roland Emmerich film the CGI is disappointing: it simply looked too digital, too fake. It is really a shame because Emmerich's films in the past have had excellent special effects. The music score from Harald Kloser and Thomas W@nker (most embarrassing name ever) borrowed many beats from Michael Bay's Transformers films and the horns of Inception.White House Down is a film that is reminiscence of films of the late 80s and 90s, with it following the likes of Die Hard, Air Force One and The Rock as well as being like 24.White House Down is a light hearted, tongue-in-cheek affair that does not take itself too seriously. It is overlong, overloaded and the story does not hold up if you give it too much thought. But it is an entertaining enough actioner that I picture people enjoying if watching it a friends and a couple of beers.6.5/10
The Hustler is seen as a well respected, getting Oscar nominations and making Paul Newman's name as an actor. Here is a film noir style film with gritty, flawed characters, looking at working class culture. It made during a great period of cinema.The film tells the story of a small time pool hustler, Fast Eddie Felson (Paul Newman), who had been traveling around America, making a lot of money and wanting to challenge Minnesota Fats (Jackie Gleason), the best pool player in America. After initial success, Fats beats Eddie, with him being battered and beaten. He ends up forming a relationship with an alcoholic woman, Sarah (Piper Laurie), a woman who is beaten down by life. They both help each other and seem in love, but Eddie does the only thing he can do, hustle, getting himself in dangerous. In a bar Eddie meets Bert Gordon (George C. Scott), a gambler who offers to back Eddie up and give him his chance to beat Fats.The film is considered by some a sports movie, but the film isn't. It is a character drama, it is about the broken American dream (like the writer John Steinbeck focused on). Many of the characters are flawed in some way. Eddie is a very arrogant character, who doesn't know where to stop and is almost on the path to self-destruction. Sarah is an alcoholic, who has given up on her dreams. Bert Gordon is a user, a man who only thinks of his own self-interest, an good villain. The Hustler strongest element is the acting, with top performance from all the actors. They made you believe in their characters. The director, Robert Rossen, does a good job, using fading shots, strong fixed shots, adding to the atmosphere and does well filming the pool scenes.They are some problems with the film. It is a little too long and seems unfocused. Just cutting a few minutes properly would have made this a better film.I personally the grim and gritty reality that this film sets out. This is a worthy film from the film noir school.
Jason 'The Stath' Statham is one of the most recognisable modern action stars in the world but due to the stigma of the genre he stars in many of his movies have a negative critical reception. Safe is one of his better received films, a typical B-Movie but done with a lot of panache.In the New York underworld Luke Wright (Statham) is an ex-cop turned cage fighter who crosses the Russian Mafia after a winning a fight he was meant to lose. One of the leading Russian Mafia men, Chemyakin (Igor Jijikine), kills Luke's wife and threatens to kill anyone else Luke may befriend, leading to him becoming a homeless bum.Mei (Catherine Chan) is an 11-year-old Chinese girl who is a maths genius and has a photographic memory. She is taken to New York by the Triads and made into human spreadsheet. But when she memorises a long number with a hidden code she becomes the target of Triads, the Russian Mafia and corrupt NYPD officers. Luke ends up becoming Mei's protector and she gives him a result to life.Safe was written and directed by Boaz Yakin and he brings a lot of energy to the film. He shows how the hand-held style can actually work for action sequences. The camera simply follows the action and does not need to shake and be in characters faces or cut every half second. They were fast and fluid action sequence as we see The Stath kick ass or the frantic gun battles.Whilst Safe is a fun actioner, it is a B-Movie, having a simple and ridiculous plot, making out that whole NYPD and anyone in political power is in the pocket of gangsters and giving Luke Wright the Steven Seagel explanation, that he was ex-Special Forces. The dialogue is at times very unnatural and forced and when Statham ends up being the best actor a film then something has gone wrong.Safe is a nuts and bolts actioner but it is a well made action-thriller. It is a film that has the darker tone of Hummingbird (Redemption in the USA) whilst still supplying plenty of top action for Statham's fans. It is one of The Stath's better films outside the Guy Ritchie films he has made.
You would need a heart of stone if can't love Who Framed Rabbit Roger, a classic mix of live-action and animation which united Disney's classic characters with the Looney Toons.In an alternative version of 1947 humans and cartoon characters (Toons) live together in Hollywood. The Toons have there own home, Toontown, but there star in live-action films and can do almost anything. A high-boiled, heavy drinking Private Detective Eddie Valiant (Bob Hoskins), whom brother was murdered by a Toon, is assigned a case by a movie studio to take incriminating photos of Jessica Rabbit (voiced Kathleen Turner) and Acme Corporation owner Marvin Acme (Stubby Kaye) to get Roger Rabbit (voiced by Charles Fleischer) to focus on his latest movie. But when Marvin Acme is found dead Roger Rabbit is the prime suspect, with the sadistic Judge Doom (Christopher Lloyd) is determined to destroy the Toon. But upon further investigation by Valiant he discovers a wider conspiracy over the ownership of Toontown.With a budget of $70 Million Who Framed Roger Rabbit was a very expensive film for its time. Director Robert Zemeckis is known for using the most state of the art technology available to him. He uses it to great effect, blending live-action and animation together. For children they will enjoy seeing cartoon characters and live-action actors working together on screen and the over-the-top slapstick comedy that animation can offer. The animation is very much of the style of a Looney Toons cartoons that I used to watch when I was younger, with similarities to Tom and Jerry shorts. There is also pretty of verbal comedy and it does play on its crossover, like the rivalry between Donald Duck and Daffy Duck. But there is pretty for adults, with elements of film noir in direction, character and plot, strong in jokes of classic cartoons and filmmaking and excellent writing with it's plot and characterisation. There is of course also a nostalgia factor.Who Framed Roger Rabbit was Hoskins' first major Hollywood film and he does an excellent job as the serious Private Detective who harbours bitter feelings towards Toons. He plays the role very much like a detective with the usual backstory and problems: but ends up forming a partnership with some very zany characters. He also had a tough job because for the most part Hoskins had to act alone. He shows his comic side as well and with Zemeckis' skilled direction show a compelling backstory to the character. Lloyd was brilliant as the sinister, scary and sadistic villain: he truly captures evil and is more scary then most horror villains. His sadism is shown by ruthlessly killing an animated shoe which is enough to give people nightmares for weeks.A great family film.
The Conversation is a good example when Francis Ford Coppola use to be excellent director. The film is a 1970s paranoid thriller, focusing on Harry Caul (Gene Hackman), a surveillance expert. He is considered one of the best in the business, but is a very lonely man. His apartment is bare, he has no telephone, an empty office, no friends and spends his free time playing the saxophone. At the beginning of the film Harry is on a mission in Union Square in San Francisco where he records the conversation between a young man and woman. It is this conversation that Harry obsesses about during the whole film. This film is a character study and about the moral ambiguities about the surveillance industry. Harry throughout this film doubts what he is doing and worries about the consequence of his actions. He suffers guilt about what he did and refuses to give the tapes to the people who hired him. This obviously annoys them and puts Harry up against some dangerous people.The Conversation is a fine film. Gene Hackman gives an excellent performance, showing that he was top of his game. Francis Ford Coppola was great behind the camera and wrote a brilliant script, which was smart and compelling. Whilst I prefer the Godfather and Godfather Part II, the Conversation is a good film and shows that the 70s was when Coppola was best. If you love intelligent films then this is for you.
Taxi Driver is a brilliant film from the 70s and from Martin Scorsese, one of my favourite directors. This is a grim tale but is essential viewing.Taxi Driver is about Travis (Robert De Niro), an ex-Marine suffering from insomnia and becomes a taxi driver. He is a rather unpleasant, creepy character who spends his time going to porn theatres and stalks Betsy, a campaign worker for a Presidential candidate. He was unsuccessful with Betsy, driving her away. Because of his job he see New York in the depths of night and the city is very horrible and seedy, with prostitution and drugs around. This gives Travis the drive to do something and he is pushed over the edge when he has an encounter with a 13-year-old prostitute (Jodie Foster). He gets himself armed with weapons and trains himself up. He attempts to assassinate the presidential candidate before taking on Iris' pimp and try and get her out of that lifestyle.Taxi Driver benefits from a good script, and excellent direction from Scorsese and acting from De Niro. It is a depressing story but that's why I like it. It has themes such as lonely, alienation, determination and mental illness. It shows the grim underbelly of New York and how horrible that city was in the 70s. This was from a man who loves New York. It is violence, but it does tackle dark themes anyway. I also like the fact that Scorsese cast a 13-year-old to play a 13-year-old, but I do understand why that is controversial. I also am under such whether to call Travis a villain or an anti-hero, but De Niro plays the role perfectly and he is one of my favourite actors.Taxi Driver has also been influential in films showing darker themes and how nasty New York was. A good example would be Batman: Year One by Frank Miller where the author shows that Gotham was similar to that kind of New York.The music of the film also had a film-noir feel to it and I thought that was really fitting.Taxi Driver is well worth seeing.
Sin City is a fantastic film, a must watch for all students and Frank Miller fans. Sin City is based on Frank Miller's graphic novels showing the violence and corrupt work of Basin City. Frank Miller is one of the best comic book writers around and he works closely the film industry. He wrote the script, co-directed the film with Robert Rodriguez and has a small role as a Catholic priest.The film tells three different story: The Long Goodbye, The Big Fat Kill and That Yellow Bastard. The Hard Goodbye tells a story of revenge when Marv's (Mickey Rourke) love interest is murdered and he was unable to do anything about it. The Big Fat Kill is about the girls of Old Town kill a cop and with the help of Dwight (Clive Owen) try to get rid of the evidence because a gang war could break out. That Yellow Bastard is about a cop Harrigan (Bruce Willis) gets framed for the kidnap and rape of an 11-year-old girl called Nancy (Makenzie Vega/Jessica Alba) and the forces that did it set out to destroy what was left of the man.The film is dark and stylist. The stories are engaging and very loyal to the graphic novels: if you pick up a copy of them you could match the panels to scenes of the film. It is willing to touch on nasty subjects and the use of black and white and colour work very well. The direction for the film was very good and Rodriguez has a nack for making entertaining films. Sin City also has a good cast. There are A-Listers such as Bruce Willis, Michael Madsen, Elijah Wood, Clive Owen, etc. Many performances were good, it was Micky Rourke's, Jessica Alba's and Brittany Murphy's best performances by far. I thought Clive Owen was good and at the time was one of the reason I thought he would have made a good James Bond. Elijah Wood offers a dark silence performance, trying to avoid getting typecast. The film also shown me Devon Aoki as a silence assassin and she is a very attractive woman. There was also good chemistry between many of the actors, such as Clive Owen and Rosario Dawson. Another good thing from the film was that it had some get film quotes all ready and waiting and had some great scenes. This is a common trait in Frank Miller's work, from the film 300, to his Batman graphic novels.This is a good fun movie, but not advised if you don't like violence. I hope Frank Miller writes more Sin City novels and that the sequels are made soon.
Back in the 1990s Luc Besson was a top action director in the US and France, best known for films like Leon and Nikita. In the early part of the 21st Century, he turned to producing and one of his major hits was The Transporter, the film that made Jason Statham into an action star.Frank Martin (Statham) is an ex-military man who turned into a driver for hire in the South of France. He lives by three rules: No.1 never change the deal, No.2 no names, No.3 never open the package. But on a job he opens the package to find a Chinese woman (Shu Qi) tied up and gag, resulting with him crossing an American gangster, Bettencourt (Matt Schulze) who wants Frank dead. Frank has to work with the woman, Lai, and a police detective, Inspector Tarconi (François Berléand), to bring down Bettencourt and his operator.The Transporter takes a basic B-Movie plot and story and gives it an MTV flash. The highlight of the film is action sequences which director Corey Yuen injected a load of fun elements with martial arts, gun battles, an axe fight and the famous oil fight scene. There are flashy moments like when a gun is in the air and the downwards camera on a gun when a machine gun magazine clip drops to the ground. There is some weak CGI but it is rare and the best parts of the action is the practical effects and stunt work. The real problem with the action is at times there was too much quick cutting which made some of the action sequence and it made them hard to follow: this was the particularly the case with the fight in the bus which was too tight, too close and overly edited. The best sequence for me was the highway chase because it was easier to tell what was happening and for the most part the fighting and gun fights were well done.The Transporter was Statham's first leading role outside of Guy Ritchie's films. He had the action chops with his physique and his martial arts ability and he was already showing his shy wit. But he gave his character a weak American accent which kept slipping. Likely Statham had enough charisma and was able to give Frank enough menace in his look. Statham also had very good chemistry with Qi who did have charm as Lai. The pair worked well and were surprisingly believable in the context of their world.The Transporter lacked a threaten villain: Schulze played his role more as a man who is partier then a ruthless crime lord who will kill anyone who crosses him. Schulze's performance also did not help giving the character smug, frat boy characteristics. The film also introduces a character called Leon who was able to beat up and knock out Frank, leading you to think that there is going to be a showdown between the characters: but it never comes about, which is very disappointing.Stanley Clarke gave The Transporter a more modern, techno score which was fitting for the most part, especially when it becomes pumping for the action sequences near the end. The score combined by the French setting reminded me a little bit of The Bourne Identity. But The Bourne Identity is a much more intelligentially stimulating film.The Transporter is a very paced actioner that does not rest. There are fine action sequences throughout the film and a decent start to The Stath's action persona: but this is a film for Statham fans.
The Curious Case of Benjamin Button was a film that had been in production since the early nineties, with different directors like Steven Spielberg and Ron Howard and actors like Tom Cruise and John Travolta being attached. It was subjected to numerous rewrites until David Fincher and Brad Pitt took control of the project.Benjamin Button (Brad Pitt) was a man with an extraordinary condition: he was born as an 80-year-old man in 1918, in New Orleans. His mother dies during his child birth and his father Thomas (Jason Flemyng) abandons him at an old persons home. Benjamin is raised in the home and a carer, Queenie (Taraji P. Henson) becomes his surrogate mother. Benjamin's condition makes him grow younger and physically experience life backwards. He soon meets the love of his life, Daisy (Cate Blanchett, Elle Fanning and Madisen Beaty). The two go on their separate ways, Daisy becoming a ballerina, and Benjamin travels, but the two are continually drawn to each other.When I first saw the trailer I thought it was a Tim Burton film, giving it a dark almost Gothic feel: but the real film is not like that. It would have been better if Tim Burton did direct this film, it was an idea that he could have sunk his teeth into. David Fincher does offer a solid hand behind the camera, and give the film a tender touch: despite what some people say, Benjamin Button is basically a love story. But Fincher is better at grittier subject matter like in Se7en, Fight Club and Zodiac. Fincher also makes this film a bit too long and therefore, makes it drag. That is always a problem in any film.There is a good cast in this film. Brad Pitt once again shows he is more then a pretty boy and gives a compelling performance in the lead role. Cate Blanchett is offers a decent performance, but she had done better. Taraji P. Henson who was nominated for a Oscar gives a very good performance as Benjamin replacement mother. The child actors in the film were also very compelling in their roles.The script was a problem area for this film. It was written Eric Roth who also wrote Forest Gump (a very overrated film). He follows a same sort of plot, a two friends/lover who take separate courses in live but still able to meet each other at points. As well as coping a similar plot, their seems to be a lack of realistic or internal logic, with everyone seeming to be normal about Benjamin's condition: surely wouldn't he be taken to a doctor or be tested or something? It's even more strange when at times the world is very surreal, but others it's quite down to Earth. The other problem is for a film that is set in New Orleans during an important period of America's social history the film completely side-steps the issue of racism and the civil rights movement. All this historical events are just background noise.A decent but flawed film. 7.5 out of 10. Tim Burton would have been more suited for this project.
After two disappointing instalments, X-Men fans needed some heroes themselves, people who could revitalise the series and luckily, we got that with the director of the first two films and the man who was originally picked to direct X-Men: The Last Stand. The Bryan Singer/Matthew Vaughn combo was able to give the series the kick it needed, making a fun and action-packed film.In 1962, the privileged Charles Xavier (James McAvoy) has graduated from Oxford University with a PhD in Genetics and has a very close relationship with his adopted sister, Raven (Jennifer Lawrence). On the other side of the coin is Erik Lehnsherr (the always awesome Michael Fassbender), a Holocaust surviving, hunting Nazis around the world, overall badass. Both are recruited by CIA agent Moira MacTarget (Rose Byrne) to help stop the Hellfire Club, lead by Sebastian Shaw (Kevin Bacon) and his group of powerful mutants; Emma Frost (January Jones), Azazel (Jason Flemyng), and Riptide (Alex Gonzalez). As the Hellfire Club manipulates the United States and the Soviet Union towards nuclear war, Charles and Erik go on their own recruiting drive to train mutants for their team, including Hank McCoy (Nicholas Hoult), Alex Summers (Lucas Till), and Angel Salvadore (Zoe Kravitz).From what should have been a disaster of a film, Vaughn pulled it out of the bag and made a really fun summer blockbuster. Compared to Singer's whose X-Men movies were dark, in both story and style, Vaughn made his X-Men film a lighter and more colourful film, with a strong mix of drama and comedy, very much like Spider-man and Iron Man. Because of the quick production time some of the CGI is a bit ropey, but Vaughn proves himself a talented director with a great visual style, from his montages that interject comic book visuals to his action scenes. Vaughn ensures that there is plenty of mutant versus mutant action and just like in the Singer films, mutants use their powers logically. Some of the comedy is predictable, but still funny and the action scenes were tense, unlike Brett Ratner's approach in X-Men: The Last Stand who broke up action sequences with humour.The plot itself is very similar to the James Bond film Tomorrow Never Dies, since it comes down to an outside force trying to start a war for their own ends. Continuing with the Bond film there is a certain feel in the early part of the film with Erik's global travelling and the scene with Moira in bra and panties, which was very much like something from a Bond or even Austin Powers movie.X-Men: First Class is a film that focuses on characters and relationships, a strength of any good action film, or as I see it, an X-Men film with action in it. There are strong ideologies being formed with Shaw taking the place of Magneto in this world. There are also ideas about how government circles and intelligence agencies would react to the discovery of a new breed of humanity. The Nazi Scientist was very much like the Emperor in Star Wars, pretty much saying "let the anger consume you".What X-Men: First Class needed in order to be successful was a strong chemistry between McAvoy and Fassbender, which we got. They have a yin and yang relationship as they share a goal but have two different ways about how to achieve it, yet you can still believe they are friends. Many of the supporting cast members were strong, Bacon is of course, intelligent and powerful with a sinister Southern accent and capably assisted by the beautiful January Jones. Some of the characters were sidelined, but I am sure they will be developed in the sequel.As a fanboy, I could make a list of things the filmmakers got wrong from the comics and continuity with the first three films, but it was so well made as a stand-alone movie it doesn't really matter. Really, it's just as much a reboot as it is a prequel. There are also plenty of cameos that will keep fans happy. X-Men: First Class is the best X-Men film since X2: X-Men United.
Point Break is a cult classic action thriller and was Kathryn Bigelow until her Oscar success with The Hurt Locker. Point Break is a testosterone filled, macho film filled with male posturing throughout as a rookie FBI agent, Johnny Utah (Keanu Reeves) who has to go undercover in the surfer scene to find a group of bank robbers known as the ex-presidents, but soon becomes absorbed by the adrenaline seeking ways of surf leader Bodhi (Patrick Swayze).Point Break is a very cheesy and some of the acting is pretty bad, but there is no denying that Point Break has a charm to it. Bigelow shows even at this stage of her career that she is an extremely confidence action director, allowing action to flow, using hand-held to follow the action, give it energy and she does not shy away from the violence. She is able to add tension during her shootouts, fight scenes and the robberies. There is some great sequences such as the shoot-out, the third robbery and the skydiving sequences.Point Break is a product of its time and it does have problems, but it is easy to see why people enjoy, particular thanks to Bigelow's action direction which does go over the top at times.
The late 70s and 80s were seen as a Golden Age of the Pornography Industry in America, based San Fernando Valley. This was a period known for pornographers attempting tell a story in their films. With his first major film Paul Thomas Anderson uses this period as a backdrop for his wonderfully told drama.Eddie (Mark Wahlberg) was a 17-year-old high school dropout, working as a dishwasher at a small nightclub. Eddie is spotted by Jack Horner (Burt Reynolds) who hears that the kid was well endowed. After Eddie was kicked out his home by his mother Jack and his partner Amber Waves (Julianne Moore) takes Eddie under their collective wing. Eddie quickly makes friends with porn actors Reed Rothchild (John C. Reilly) and Rollergirl (Heather Graham). Jack convinces Eddie to become a porn actor himself. Eddie renames himself Dirk Digger and he quickly becomes one of the biggest name porn stars around. Eddie/Dirk believes in Jack ideal of telling a proper story in his porn films. But fame is a fickle thing with the porn industry changing and Eddie/Dirk's own person problems pushing him back.Anderson shows his talent as a director early on in the film with an amazing opening sequence with was a 3 minute long continuous shot. He expertly handles the drama, showing both a colourful party side to the late 70s/early 80s to more darker elements which was bound to happen considering it's plot. Anderson perfectly treads a fine line between comedy and tragedy. Anderson mixes in a lot of style to his film with some well handed shots, excellent cinematography and some stylist camera tricks. There was an strong influence from Martin Scorsese behind this film. The plot does have a similar to films like Scarface and Goodfellas where the protagonist starts from a low point to getting fame, money and power to them losing it because of their own arrogance. Boogie Nights is also shot in a similar style to those two films and the ending was a little like Raging Bull, but Anderson's skill made it seem more like a homage then directly coping those films. Anderson mixes in a few themes into his film: one being an very unorthodox way to fulfil the American Dream and use what ever asset you have available to you. They is of course an in-depth look into the plot industry with Anderson showing that whilst some actors may have a tough or unusual background they were willing and happy within the industry and Jack is made out to be a more noble type of director, wanting to at least tell a story in his films. There is also a darker look into why people get involved and the world of excess that inhabited this world but Anderson was darning to show some sort of a positive spin. Anderson also tackles how the porn industry changed in this period and became more of horrid mass produced product.There is a great cast in this film. Wahlberg, Reilly, Reynolds, Moore, Graham, Philip Seymour Hoffman, William H. Macy and Robert Ridgely, all offer good performances. Wahlberg is of course very good in the lead role and his character grows and changes throughout the film and showed the emerging talent he was about to become. Boogie Nights was easily Reynolds and Graham's best film, showing the two are good actors, showing their dark side in the process. Moore and Reynolds were very believable in the mentor role of the film and that Moore's character was filled with heartbreak and tragedy. There were simple, powerful scenes in the film involving some of the characters, such as between Reynolds and Ridgely in prison, a wonderfully handled scene and a small scene with Hoffman crying in his car, a bitter, raw scene that was very real. Hoffman is one of the best character actors in Hollywood.An excellent film that shows American film-making at its best.
After the 70s punk movement, new bands that were influenced by great bands like the Clash, The Buzzcocks and The Ramones. This new movement was post-punk, that combined punk and rock with other types of music, like Dub and Funk. Many bands were apart of it, like New Order and The Cure. One of the most famous was Joy Division, a band that only made 2 albums but it's influence still exist, influencing modern indie music.Control tells the story of Joy Division's lead singer, Ian Curtis (Sam Reilly). Curtis was an intelligence man, reading a lot of classic novels and poetry and a writes a lot of his own stuff. He was a fan of a lot of the music from the era, like David Bowie. Early on he meets his girlfriend, Debbie (Samantha Morton), a young woman attached to his intelligence and artistic nature. Soon after he left the school, he worked at his local Employment Exchange, which he was good at, but singing and writing gets him into a new band. Joy Division quickly becomes successful and famous followed. But Curtis' life is not simple, having to battle with epilepsy, an extramarital affair and his own personal depression.Control is a wonderful told story, with great acting and direction behind it. Reilly was an extremely talented actor and an excellent pick for the role, showing all the traits of Curtis, his intelligence, internal conflict, depression and his quite passion. Morton too was excellent, giving a low-key, natural performance as the shy girl who falls for Curtis. Toby Kebbell plays Rob Gretton, the band's manager, who offers a little bit of comic relief with his clever put downs and colourful use of the English, but still kept as a realistic level. Alexandra Maria Lara too is a good as Annik Honoré, Curtis' girlfriend. She too gives a natural performance as a young woman who falls for Curtis because of his artistic and musical talent. She was handled in an evenhanded manner consider this film was based on Deborah Curtis' diaries.Director Anton Corbijn's background was in photography (it was good enough start for Stanley Kubrick) and music videos. Control was his feature debut and well, it was a hell of a debut. He gave the film a black-and-white, artistic look, possibly an influence from his photography: it looked good and effective, matching the grounded, sombre tone of the film. The film focuses on the characters, and Corbijn slows the film down long enough to allow the audience to absorb the drama on the screen. Corbijn makes sure that there is a down-to-Earth tone through the film. Characters are allowed to grow organically, the gig scenes are treated in a normal manner and Corbijn avoids any over-the-top music clichés about characters or the art. The band did not make loads of money, they did not live the high live and they had to travel in a beat up car. Corbijn also knew how to organise a set piece, from an excellent steady cam shot of Curtis going to work, making the mundane interesting and the gig scenes were real, like real gigs are, in small, packed areas with the tightness of a mosh pit. There is an well constructed scene when a gig crowd gets restless, feeling the tension in the air. Plus Corbijn and the writer Matt Greenhalgh treat the subject of Curtis' depression and internal artistic struggle with great sensitivity. They understand that people don't moat around and go 'I'm depress.' They are people who try keep going regardless and usually keep their issues to themselves until it is too late.Finally, they is an excellent soundtrack, which is what you would expect from a film like this.A must see film and you don't have to be a Joy Division fan to understand it.
Hellboy, a comic book character that isn't as well known as other characters such as Spider-man, Superman, Batman and Wolverine. But in a way it gives Hellboy more credible and let film maker be more creative with the character.Hellboy was a minor success when it was released in 2004 and there were doubts that a sequel would have been made, especially when Columbia split with Revolution Studios. It was Univerial who came to Hellboy's rescue. This give Guillermo del Toro a charge to make a blockbuster with real imagine, playing on his strenghts.Hellboy II: the Golden Army starts with the legend of man and the forest creatures led by the elves and their war which resulted in the creation of the Golden Army. The war was ended by King of the Elves making peace, promising Humans the cities and the Elves the forests. But his son, Prince Nuada (Luke Goss), is disguised by this and puts himself in self-exile. He promised that he would reclaim his throne and control of the Golden Army, so he can continue the war. Hellboy (Ron Perlman) is still working for the Bureau for Paranormal Research and Defense , and living with Liz (Selma Blair). But they are going through relationship problems. Hellboy had become more insubordinate, seeing that his adopted father had been killed and during a mission in New York City he makes such he is well known to the public. A new head of the Bureau for Paranormal Research and Defense is appointed, Johann Krauss (Seth MacFarlane). He is able to lead the investigation which brings the team into conflict with Prince Nuada, having to protect his sister Princess Nuala (Anna Walton) and the last piece of the crown that can control the Golden Army.Like any good sequel Hellboy follows up on the first film nicely, playing on its strenght and getting rid of the weaknesses. Hellboy is an action-comedy and is very good on both fronts.Johann Krauss is a great comedic creation for the film, with Seth MacFarlane showing his has skills beyond Family Guy. Ron Perlman is perfect as Hellboy and Luke Goss was good as the villain. It's good to see Doug Jones is more then just a body for creatures and this time he was the voice for Abe. He was very good in the role and even sounded a bit like David Hyde Pierce at times. Hellboy II shows Del Toro's skill for both action and for creating wonderful creatures such as the tooth fairies to the troll market. Hellboy II was really an advert to show that he could do the Hobbit and seeing this film I am a bit more confident that he can carry on Peter Jackson's brilliant work. Like any good film there is reason behind why a villain does what he does in film, and Prince Nuada is no exception. He is a power hungry character, but is still fighting for some sort of noble intention. To free his race. The film is surreal, but this is expected with a character that is the son of the devil, and has magical creatures and it does have some messages about identity, acceptance, fate, love and death and the film does play up to those, for the most part.I missed Rupert Evans as John Myers, I thought he added comedy and a freshness to the first film which was a shame. Hellboy is also a harder sell then the more well-known comic-book characters. This affect the film's box office takings, which was a shame because it was clear a sequel was in mind.I never read a Hellboy comic, which is a shame, but seeing that it's Creator Mike Mignola helped write the script then surely that has to be a good thing.A partly fine addition to the year of comic book adaptations of 2008.
The Brazilian city Rio de Janeiro is serving as the setting for two films being released this April: one being a full on action film, Fast and Furious 5, the other being a family animated adventure. Rio is that film and shows that the Fox subsidiary Blue Sky Studios is growing from strength to strength.Blu the Spix's Macaw's (Jesse Eisenberg) early life is tragic, having fledging from his nest too early and been kidnapped by poachers. Luckily he was adopted by a loving owner, Linda (Leslie Mann) as a little girl. 15 years later Linda owns a bookstore in the snowy landscape of Minnesota and Blu becoming a very nerdy bird. A Brazilian ornithologist, Túlio (Rodrigo Santoro) finds Linda and tells her that Blu is the last male of his species and takes them to Rio de Janeiro so the bird could breed. But Blu does not hit it off with Jewel (Anne Hathaway) and matters get worst when poachers take the birds and chain them together. When their escape Blu and Jewel they try and reunite with Linda whilst avoiding being captured by the poachers and their insane cockatoo Nigel (Jemaine Clement).Rio is a pure formula picture and there are many elements have been in other films, such as Blu being taken from the wild as a chick, the animosity between Blu and Jewel and we all know where it is going to lead, the story of Nigel having a tragic past and being rejected, etc, etc. But formula does not have to be bad and when done right it can easily lead to an enjoyable film for all the family. Director Carlos Saldanda certainly made a fast paced adventure with a great amount of velvet colour. There is a more old-fashion feel to it, like Disney films and its copycats in the 90s. Pop-culture references are toned down and there are a few musical numbers which is rare in CGI animated features. The animation itself has a similar look to Pixar's particular the human characters, though Túlio looks very similar to the main character in Cloudy with a Chance of Meatballs. The animation of the parrots climbing is particularly well done and true to live to anyone who has ever own one.Much of the humour of the film is kid friendly slapstick as is expected from this type of film and it is done very well. There is enough for parents and adults audiences to keep them entertaining. My personal favourites were the double act Kipo (Robin Thicke) and Marcel (Carlos Ponce) who were the dumb henchmen for the poacher and outsmarted by a cockatoo. They have some of the best lines in the film. But the two characters Pedro the Red-crested Cardinal (will.i.am) and Nico the yellow canary (Jamie Fox) were annoying and pretty stereotypical.Eisenberg gives a typical nerdy performance as his character is book-smart, but not adventurous at all, preferring to be safe with his owner. Compared to Hathaway she is a feisty, strong female character who wants to explore and distrusts humans. Both learn from each other, for Blu that there is a wider world and for Jewel that not all humans are bad. Clement was funny as he parodies British actors playing psychopathic villains in action films. Though I do question why ornithologists did not question why they had an injured cockatoo considering the species is native to Australia and New Guinea (but this is a minor issue). As well as the bird love in the film there is also some nerd love.A respectable 7.5/10.
This is my first experience of the Fast & the Furious franchise, and I have to say I found it an dumb, but fairly entertaining experience. Fast & Furious takes place after the first and second films, but before the third: an interquel which is a very rare thing, even in Hollywood.The action starts of in the Dominican Republic, Dom (Vin Diesel), Letty (Michelle Rodriguez) and Han (Sung Kang) are stealing petrol so they could sell it on the black market. The heat is on them and they all have to go their separate, Han going to Tokyo, Letty to America and Dom goes to Panama city. Brain O'Connor (Paul Walker) is an FBI agent who is working on a case to bring down a Drug Cartel who import heroin from Mexico to America using tunnels and street racers. Letty ends up getting murdered by the same Cartel and Dom and Brain work together to bring the group down.The plot is ridiculous, it's thin and is not the way a Cartel would work. I can not picture tunnels being build under the American/Mexican border without the American authorises knowing or the tunnels being big and stable enough to drive cars in them. The acting is standard, no one really stands out for the right or wrong reason. Vin Diesel is the strongest performer. What makes the film work is the action sequence and the director Justin Lin does it with joy. There are some good races, and other action set piece, including shoot-out, which action-junkies would enjoy. However some scenes, especially the race in Korea Town, felt like it was trying to be Grand Theft Auto the movie with the way the cars were driven the GPS graphics. The action scene in the beginning reminded me of the petrol stealing scene in Mad Max. But the action is the strongest point of the film. In the UK the film has a 12A rating (PG-13 in America), but personally though the film should have gone for a 15 (R) rating because it wouldn't really affect it audience, and allow the filmmakers to show more sex and violence. As well Justin Lin really like to show girls kissing each other (I wonder why).Vin Diesel, Paul Walker, Michelle Rodriguez and Jordana Brewster were all in need of hit after some unsuccessful career moves. Vin Diesel was doing some really after films, Paul Walker only has Flags of Our Fathers to his credit and Michelle Rodriguez only did a year on Lost. Its good to see Vin Diesel backing doing what he does best.The people who will enjoy this film the most are men who masturbate over cars and women (in that order).
Schindler's List is my favourite film of all time. The film is based on the novel Schindler's Ark, which itself was based on the life of Oscar Schindler who saved over 1,000 Jews during the Holocaust. Oscar Schindler was played by Liam Neeson, and his performance was excellent. The shows that Schindler himself was faulted character himself, he was a member of the Nazi, he was a war-profiteer, a womaniser and bribed officials. He did however have a sense of humanity and could not allow innocent people die. He uses his influence and money to save them and has to battle Nazi officials to do this. Ralph Fiennes was also performed brilliantly as Amon Goth, a senior Nazi who was sent to help organisation the Final Solution. Goth was portrayed a Sadistic murderer who enjoyed randomly killing Jews and having sexual affairs. It was also shown that Schindler had to work with Goth to save as many Jews as he did.As well as the acting, the black and white filming added to the atmosphere of the film. It gave the film a sense of beauty and also gives the viewer the feeling of being there. The film also shows how the horrible the Holocaust was and showed some of the things people had to do to stay alive. But it also shows the faith of many of Jews and strengthen their resolve against the Nazis.I find the Holocaust interesting on a Historical, Psychological and Sociological viewpoint because it shows mankind at its worst. It was the worst atrocity in the 20th Century and unfortunately Genocides still are going on.The ending was very touching for me as well. Some people have criticised it but I don't know why. I felt the level of emotion was just right, not over done or underplayed. It is the only time I ever been tearful during a film and that is why I think the ending works. I also like the use of real footage at the end of the film.The film as serves as a film lesson which is very good, especially since I am a History student.All in all, this film is a classic!
The original TV series State of Play was a hit for the BBC, showing the talents of it's actors, the writer and director. It was a complex thriller that mixed politics, journalism and corrupt corporate influence. When Hollywood wanted to remake it into a film the big fears were what's the point and that the film makers would dumb it down. But luckily the director Kevin Macdonald and team of screenwriters have done a great job setting the action in Washington DC and cutting running time to 2 hours.In Washington D.C. two seemingly unrelated events happen in the space of a few hours, the murder of a teenage junkie and shooting of a pizza delivery man in Georgetown, and the apparent suicide of a Congressional researcher Sonia Baker (Maria Thayer). Journalist Cal McAffrey (Russell Crowe) is assigned to report on the murder whilst blogger Della Frye (Rachel McAdams) reports that Miss Baker was having an affair with Congressman Stephen Collins (Ben Affleck). Collins is investigating the activists of PointCorp, a private defence contractor who has been using mercenaries in Iraq and Afghanistan. Quickly the reporters and the Congressman work together to prove that PointCorp and many other private defence contractor plan to work together to monopolise America's defence contracts.It was going to be a challenge to turn 6 hours of programming into a 2 hour film and of course subplots had to be shorten or cut. But luckily the producers hired an excellent team of writers, Matthew Michael Carnahan (The Kingdom), Tony Gilroy (The Bourne Trilogy), Peter Morgan (Frost/Nixon) and Billy Ray (Breach). They do a great job transferring the action to American politics, showing how groups with shared interests forming Political Action Committees (PAC) to lobby American politicians, usually groups with deep pockets. There was also updating the plot to private contractor in the war of terror, how these companies have profit from the conflict and ruining America's reputation. They is a great complex plot, linking politics and the media, that too much private interest in government is a terrible idea (even thought extreme right winger in America would want to see that happen). There are ideas about the media as well, with tabloidisation of respected papers (like the Washington Post) wanting to focus on stories that could say papers, celebrity stories and sex scandals then political or business events. It is link to the ideas of the disintegration of China Walls, where the ownership and advertisers of a newspaper starts to interfere with the journalist side of things. The writers, director and actors also expose the idea of journalist ethics where they get too close to their source.Macdonald is a talented director; his background in documentary filmmaking was clear, using hand-held camera and playing his cameras in many different locations. It gave the film the feeling that you were in the room with the characters and unlike Paul Greengrass with his direction of Green Zone it looked professionally directed. There are also some shooting in an intense setting, where you get to see the action (against a big strength over Mr. Greengrass). The film is given a 12 rating but it is on the upper scale of the rating, like Casino Royale, the Dark Knight and X-Men 2 where there is blood and people getting hurt. MacDonald should be a leading contender to direct a Bond film (along with my personal choice of Christopher Nolan, Alfonso Cuaron and Oliver Hirschbiegel). Macdonald also brings in an intense feeling like All the President's Men, with 2 skilled reporters working closely together to find out the conspiracy.Macdonald assembles an excellent cast, despite all the casting changes. Crowe gives an unglamourous as an overweight, almost hippy like journalist who is committed to his story and his friends. He avoids playing the role like John Sims did in the original series. Affleck gives one of his best performance as Stephen Collins and his career resurgence continues. McAdams shows that 2009 was her year staring in 3 big films and she very good in State of Play. She had fine chemistry with Crowe and she is one the edge of true stardom. She needs more roles like this. I am however a little critical of the casting of Helen Mirren: I would have thought an American would be the editor of a Washington Post like paper and she should have either had an American accent or the filmmakers should have cast an American actor.An excellent thriller with a real brain behind it. A strong 4 out of 5.
Was the world really calling out for another Johnny English film? It has been eight years since the first movie, which was not good in the first place, based on a character who started life in credit ads and has a limited market outside the UK. Still, Universal Studios and Working Title Pictures thought it was worth a go.Johnny English (Rowan Atkinson) was MI7's top agent, but he has been living in disgrace, conducting martial arts training in a Tibetan monastery for the past five years. MI7 calls him back into action after an ex-CIA agent, Fisher (Richard Schiff) says he has information about a plot to assassinate the Chinese Premier and English is the only person he will talk to. Fisher tells English that a secret organisation called Vortex is responsible and plans to use a weapon that needs three keys. Fisher also tells English that Vortex was responsible for his failure in Mozambique. Soon, English is plunged into a deadly mission and has to bungle his way through.Johnny English Reborn is the type of sequel where you do not need to see the original movie and yet it still feels like a rehash at some points. English has a partner, Tucker (David Kaluuya), who despite being the junior partner has more intelligence and common sense and is ignored by his superior, very much like Ben Miller's character in the first movie. We get another smart and competent romantic interest in the form of Rosamund Pike, a woman who is 24 years Atkinson's junior (gross). There is also an over-the-top car chase like in the first movie, but this time with the roles reversed. For that matter, there are set-ups for the comedy of embarrassment where English has to hide what he has done, as well as misunderstandings and general stupidity. Hardly fresh or original.For the most part, the film is very much a parody of the James Bond franchise. The speech by Pegasus (Gillian Anderson) that MI7 has changed and is no longer the misogynistic organisation it once was echoes the speech by M in Goldeneye. Similarly, the scene in Goldeneye in which Bond tours the weapons lab (a scene that was originally meant to be comic in the first place) is parodied, as Johnny English enters a similar facility and ends up accidentally firing weapons. And the big set piece, which is also the best parody, is the parkour chase in Hong Kong where the filmmakers do at least try and be inventive and end the scene with a boat chase like in Quantum of Solace. But much of these parodies are outdated. The Bond series and whole spy action genre has changed to be darker and grittier.Most of the humour is physical. Fine for kids, but adults wants more. Atkinson is a man who is in his mid 50s and he is starting to get too old for this type of comedy. He is also capable of much more intelligent humour. Some of the jokes offer a few minor chuckles, but overall the director did not know when to stop and killed the jokes. Some of the other punch lines are just predictable while some do not make much sense, like the attempted poke at product placement and the gag that MI7 is supported by Toshiba and has a slogan "spying for you." It was obvious who the villain was going to be early in the movie, but it does not explain why The Vortex wants to kill the Chinese premier, whether it was for business contracts, money, a military coup, or to cause tensions between China and the West. Any of these ideas would have done the job.A better aspect is that Johnny English can be competent, such as when he is chasing the Chinese theft in Hong Kong, but for the most part he is still an idiot who cannot put two and two together. Moments like when English attacks an old woman do offer a guilty chuckle and the old Chinese assassin (Pik-Sen Lim) who used a vacuum cleaner and a golf club as a gun are inventive.Overall, if you are a fan of the first Johnny English movie or under 11 years old, you may enjoy Johnny English Reborn. If you are anybody else, you are hardly likely to be won over.
Martin Scorsese has proved time and again that he is one of the greatest film makers ever to have lived, with even his not so good film are still better then most of the films that come out. After winning his long awaited Oscar for The Departed Scorsese took his time before delivering us Shutter Island.Set in 1954, U.S. Marshal Teddy Daniels (Leonardo DiCaprio) and his new partner Chuck Aule (Mark Ruffalo) are assigned a case to go to a mental institute on Shutter Island, off the coast of Boston. A patient, Rachel Solando (Emily Mortimer) had escaped from her cell and it's clear that there was no way she could have done it alone. Teddy starts to suffer dreams and flashbacks involving when he helped liberate a concentration camp in Germany, and messages from his dead wife Dolores (Michelle Williams), offering him guidance. Whilst investigating Teddy becomes paranoid, believing there is a wider conspiracy, with patients being coached, and that the leading psychiatrists Dr. Cawley (Ben Kingsley) and Dr. Naehring (Max von Sydow) were conducting experiments on the patients and that Teddy's arrival on the island was a trap. Teddy also plans to find the man who torched his apartment building where his wife died. He too was an inmate on the island.Scorsese shows once again his skill behind the camera, giving the audience a stylist, neo-noir story with a very eerie atmosphere throughout. He keeps the mystery going in this fast paced film. He tells a very compelling thriller with good horror moments in what must have been a complex novel. It is stylist, but also has a lot of substance. He give justice to Laeta Kalogridis' screenplay.Once again Scorsese turns to Leonardo DiCaprio for the lead role and DiCaprio gives one on his best performances, and a very mature performance as the guilt ridden officer. He has proved like Brad Pitt that he is more then just a pretty boy but also a very talented actor in a long career. Ben Kingsley has finally performed in film where he can give a more understated performance which he is better at. He offers a sly performance as the main antagonist of the film. Mark Ruffalo is an actor who has made his career in supporting roles, and again he does a good performance as Ted's main ally.Despite all the positives to the film, everything did not add up and by about the two thirds of the way through I guessed the big twist. However, that does not diminish the quality of the film.Shutter Island will easily make my Top 10 for 2010.
In 2007 we saw three revisionist Westerns being released, 3:10 to Yuma and The Assassination of Jesse James by the Coward Robert Ford being two of them. Seraphim Falls was the third Western of that year and whilst it was not as good as the first two films, it was a very bold and solid debut by David Von Ancken.In 1868, a nameless outlaw (Pierce Bronson) is living a very rustic live in the Ruby Mountains in Utah when he is hunted down by a group of bounty hunter lead by Carver (Liam Neeson). Carver is a ruthless man who will not let anything stand in his way whilst the outlaw is pretty much a special forces soldier of 19th Century. Both are evenly matched as Carver gives chase from the mountains to the desert.The first third of the films is very ambitious, having little dialogue as Bronson has to run and use his skills to cover his tracks and how he has to stop himself bleeding. Bronson shows his strength as an actor because he does not have much dialogue. Von Ancken also ensures that Seraphim Falls is a very brutal, bloody Western and shows that this was a tough time to live and I did enjoy seeing Bronson's survival skills. Neeson too is strong in his role as a man wanting revenge and not going to lead anything stand in his way. It is also particularly bold because both characters are equally tough, ruthless and have negative characteristics. On the other hand some of the supporting cast, like John Robinson and Shannon Zeller were not that good.The cinematography, music and art direction was of a really high standard and Von Ancken did recruit a really strong time, like John Toll and Harry Gregson-Williams. Toll has worked on some really good films, like The Thin Red Line, The Last Samurai and Gone Baby Gone and with the art direction added to scenes, particularly scenes with little dialogue.What most people have critical about is the very surreal ending. The title itself is a religious reference because Seraph is the highest order of angels: I personally did not know until I heard a film review, but I am not a biblical expert. I am personally non-religious but I don't mind a film having a religious film, but I prefer it done subtly: an example is The Chronicles of Narnia is much better at handling the resurrection story then the anti-Semistic gorno fest The Passion of the Christ, the much more overt religious film. I believe that Seraphim Falls did not need a physical manifestation of God or Satan and its story of vengeance and redemption could have been more easily and better handled through more subtle reference.Overall Seraphim Falls is a enjoyable Western with a lot of violent action. It should have been more a story of vengeance, how a personality is corrupted and how to survive in the time and wild rather then some sort of religious allegory.
Glory, the film that made the careers of a lot of people, Edward Zwick, Denzel Washington, Morgan Freeman and Cary Elwes, and turned Matthew Broderick from a teen star to a movie star.Glory tells the story of the first all-black regiment, the 54th Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry, who fought in the American Civil War. This new regiment was set up by Massachusetts Governor John Andrew and black intelligent Frederick Douglass. It was both a PR stunt and a way to gain support of free Black slaves from the South. The commander of this new regiment was a young Captain who gets promoted to Colonel, Robert Gould Shaw (Matthew Broderick). He trains the black soldiers, he is tough, but he makes them into an effective unit. He doesn't have to battle the South because of racism within the officer corp of the Union Army. They prevent the Black troops getting supplies and refuse to let them fight on the front line. Shaw sets out to prove otherwise. With the regiment are Major Cabot Forbes (Cary Elwes), Shaw's friend who questions his harsh techniques. John Rawlins aka Gravedigger (Morgan Freeman), an older black soldier who acts a both a father figure to the soldiers and as the link between the soldiers and officers. Thomas Searles (Andre Braugher), a intelligent free black man and a childhood friend of Shaw and Forbes, who finds army life tough. The pessimist of the group is Trip (Denzel Washington), an escaped slave who questions what the war is really about. Finally they is a Sharts (Jihmi Kennedy), a young stuttering soldier.Many of the characters have a strong backstory and have fine actors in the roles. This is easily the strongest performance I have ever seen by Matthew Broderick. He is at first seemingly weak and mis-casted but he grows into the role and is believable. Denzel Washington and Morgan Freeman are both great actors, especially Freeman. Washington even won an Oscar (but personally I think it could have gone to Freeman as well). Andre Braugher was also a decent. I however found the character Sharts pretty annoying.There are good war scene, taking a pretty realistic, down to earth tone. This film started the trend towards realist violence in war films. The warfare was tough, fighting in the woods, plain fields and against forts.They is a pretty strong script by Kevin Jarre: easily his best work. They is a focus on character and the issues as well as the action, which he and Edward Zwick do very well. Zwick is an action director that gives his film a heart and issue to focus on. He has made some pretty good films in his time.The film is strong for the most part, but there are a couple of problems. First they are some historical inaccuracies which you just couldn't imagine really happening (but is still a lot better then Braveheart and Pearl Harbor). As I mention I thought the Sharts was a bit annoying and they are elements of the film which are clichéd. Finally I thought James Horner's score was overpowering, taking power away from the scenes. Sometimes silence is golden.Overall, a good film, 4 out of 5.
Based on a novel by Francisco Perez Gandul the Spanish film Cell 211 was critical hit around the world and already set to become a cult hit. This is even more impressive because Daniel Monzon's career as a writer/director was weak before that.Juan Oliver (Alberto Ammann) is a man in his early thirties with a pregnant wife Elana (Marta Etura) who about to start a job as a prison guard in Zamora, Spain. He ends up getting caught up in a prison riot led by an infamous criminal Malamadre (Luis Tosar) and Juan has to pretend he is a new prison. Juan shows his intelligence, working with Malamadre and acting as a inside man for the authorities. But events also have politically dimension when Malamadre makes three ETA terrorists their hostages and SWAT can not just go in because it could affect the Basque government.On the DVD cover in the UK Total Film describe Cell 211 as Die Hard meets A Prophet: I do not think that is correct. I see Cell 211 more as a interesting thriller set in during a prison riot. Monzon made a very fast paced film that does not hold back with the violence, its starts with a man slitting his own wrists. The prison feels real, a tight concrete structure that was delaying and a under resourced. Monzon uses a lot quick camera movements to enhance the tension and gives Cell 211 a little more a raw feel. It works particularly well in the enclosed environment. Monzon knows how to craft set pieces like the riots inside and outside the prison. I really like Roque Banos' percussion heavy music that was very fitting for the film particular when Monzon had to ratchet up the tension and the stakes.There are great performances from the two leads. Tosar reminded me very much of John Malkovich's character in Con Air, both looking the same and have both are the leading of a prisoner revolt. But whilst Malkovich played his character a highly intelligence blockbuster villain, Tosar's character was simply a man with decent brain but he simply a man who ruled with an iron fist. He was willing to use violence means of controlling people and only allows something to happen if it has a greater benefit. Ammann is was very strong, playing a character with knowledge and intelligence, someone who is resourceful and does what he needs to do to survive. He was a very talented actor and shows he has real range, I certainly would like to see him in more films, whether it is in Spanish or English speaking roles. The supporting actors were too were very strong throughout, from the nice prison guard (Fernando Soto) to the negotiator (Manuel Moron) to even the characteristically evil guard Utrillo (Antonio Resines). Ammann also had real chemistry with Etura and they felt like a real couple.Cell 211 is not perfect, there are moments that felt force or contrived and some that it voyaged into fantasy then reality. It took an accident for Juan to be caught up in the riot and he ends up being at the centre of the riot despite only being in prison for one day to the being of the leading figures in. I also believe that if a guard or anyone is killed the prison would send in SWAT or the riot squad as soon as possible.A interesting possible plot would have been that riot leaders were split and that Juan tries to exploit it so he could escape or end the riot. Or another possibly could have been Juan trying to keep low during the riot and find a way out.Cell 211 is a more mainstream film because of its plot and style. This is a prison film that people are usefully interested and it is a very well, entertaining film. It certainly has a feel of a Hollywood film and Paul Haggis is already planning a remake.
For a British director Sam Mendes seems to have a great understanding of American culture and he has a great interest in the darker side of American culture. Mendes reunions Kate Winslet and Leonardo DiCaprio for this dark, gritty piece of Americana set story.Winslet and DiCaprio play April and Frank Wheeler, a unhappy married couple that live in 1950s East Coast America in the suburbs. April was a failed actress and a housewife whilst Frank is an unhappy salesman for the same company his father work at. Outwardly people thing they are the perfect couple with a nice family; but no one knows what happens behind closed doors. Desperate for a chance April suggest to Frank moving to Paris so he can find himself and be happy in the city of live. April has plans on how the move would work and the two make serious preparations to move the family abroad. But event conspirer against April's plans and whilst the married couple have a brief period of happiness their relationship becomes very strained.Revolutionary Road is an actor's film: it is filled with excellent performances with DiCaprio and Winslet at their best. They are believable as the couple of the piece and this is such a realistic scenario about how a relationship going wrong. The supporting performances were excellent, with people believing the illusion of the Wheelers and the other character seeming to have a need for it. This is most evident with the female characters Helen (Kathy Bates) and Milly (Kathryn Hahn).Mendes handles the material, trying to balance out both April and Frank's good and bad part and they both change amongst themselves as the protagonist and the antagonist. He gets the best out the actors and his skill behind the camera adds to the power, like when April has to make a phone call and the camera moves away and April gives the audience a voice-over. Mendes could have easily have shot the film in a dark hand-held style which is popular at the moment. Yet Mendes kept he kept the film well lit and its offers a great juxtaposition of the nice setting of suburbia and the darkness of the relationship. There are excellent themes in the film, there is the idea of broken and unfulfilled dreams, an important aspect in some of American literature like Of Mice and Men. There is the obvious film of a relationship going wrong, with the people starting a family and creating a home just because it's the normal thing, not because it's the best thing to do. As well the film looks at the idea of illusion that people will put up to protect themselves and other people believing it. Revolutionary Road was very much like American Beauty, looking at the dark underbelly of American suburbia, but this time, set in the 50s.Whilst the film is very strong for the most part, they could have shown a little more about how the relationship broke down in the first place and the children did not play a big a role as they should have.Revolutionary Road is a melodrama: but it's an very good melodrama and sometimes that is what the audience needs.
Robin Hood, Robin Hood riding through the glen, Robin Hood with his band of Merry Men: you will get none of that in this new verison of the legend. With Ridley Scott Russell Crowe have created new type of Robin Hood for these an audience who want to gritty verison the legend who has been constantly re-invented.1199, England has been suffering from the heavy burden of taxation to fund Richard I's (Danny Huston) wars and the countryside was suffering from social problems with war orphans running wild. Richard I's army was marching through France to get back to England after the Crusades and looting and the raiding the French as much as possible whilst on the way. Robin Longstride (Russell Crowe) and his friends are archers within the army. When Richard I died in battle they fled and Robin assumes the identity of a English lord who has been murdered in an ambush. Godfrey (Mark Strong), an English knight and an adviser to King John (Oscar Issac) secretly meets with the French with a plot to make the new king unpopular and force the nation into civil war, thereby weakening England and making the kingdom easy to invade. Robin goes to Nottingham and gives the news to Sir Walter Loxley (Max von Sydow) and Lady Maiden (Cate Blanchett) that their son and husband has died. They suggest that Robin continues to pretend that he was really Sir Robert Loxley and as the man Robin becomes a leading figure to unite the kingdom to stop the impending invasion.Scott is one of the best directors around for historical film: he has shown a great skill for taking people back to another time and show what the period would have been like (even if he has to take a few liberties to the historical facts). With Robin Hood he shows that the Medieval period was dark and dirty, even for members of the gentry. Battles are hard and brutal, though they is a lot less blood then there was in Gladiator, which is a shame. Scott, with his screenwriter Brain Helgeland, set out a more complex, balance picture. Richard I was not made out to be the great king people think he is because of his heavy taxation and ruthless nature. John was made out to be someone who was dogmatic and naïve, but not someone wanting to be a tyrant just for the fun of it. He was portrayed in a more sympathetic light to what has been shown in the past. It was Godfrey who was the main villain and in the Medieval period national loyalty was not such a big issue as it is today. This is all refreshing to see when most films just show a black and white world.Scott delivers some excellent battle scenes in this film during. But he slows the film down long enough to allow the plot to develop and adds a little bit of humour. This is however a less bloody epic to allow a slightly younger audience to see it. There is the theme of the idea of a king's right to govern, but this is mostly an action, not a historical film about Medieval government.Crowe and Scott reunite again and Crowe gives a solid performance as a rougher and tougher Robin. Blanchett too is solid as an older Maiden, showing she is a tough woman who also willing to fight: a woman that properly would not have existed in this period. Strong shows once again that he is a excellent villain, having stared in Sherlock Holmes and Kick-Ass, a man who thinks about his own self interest. Strong has been making a good career as villain for hire and he was the strongest actor in the film. The American in this English set film did well, William Hurt was very strong as the wronged advice in the King's court, whilst Huston seemed to be having a blast as Richard I and obviously shows he is not as noble he seems.Helgeland wrote a clever script, showing Medieval ideology and a complex political situation. His previous Medieval film was A Knight's Tale, which he wrote and directed. But with Robin Hood he seems to have grown up as a writer and gives this film a little more of a complex plot and shows a bigger picture. He also cleverly mixes different aspects about how the legend has changed, like how Robin starting as a commoner and pretends to be a higher ranked man. The film also covers its bases by showing the two sites places that claim to be Robin's home, Nottingham and Barnsdale. However this film felt like an origins story, a start to a new film series. This is Robin Hood that has not been seen on screen like this before. Hopefully if there is a sequel then Matthew MacFadyen as the Sheriff of Nottingham would get a bigger role. Robin Hood is also historically suspect, with events and dates being changed and made up, some ideas and culture also seems to be the victim of artistic license. But Scott knows that storytelling requires character development and show a more balanced picture, particularly with historically set films. At least this film does accept that it is a piece of historical fiction.An enjoyable summer flick.
Charlie Chaplin is easily recognised as a screen legend, making silent films that known now as comedy classics. But there is more to him then just filmmaking as shown in Richard Attenborough's bio-pic.Robert Downey Jr. stars as Chaplin, from his easy days living in poverty in London with his mentally ill mother (Geraldine Chaplin) and homing his comedy skills in Victorian and Edwardian music halls before earning his big break in America. He becomes a stars, acting and directing hit films, owning his own studio before he is thirty. But there is his trouble for the actor involving his numerous marriages with younger women and the director of the FBI J. Edgar Hoover (Kevin Dunn) wants to prove that Chaplin was a Communist just for harbouring support for the working man and being against the Nazis.Downey's performance was the strongest element of the film and he deserved an Oscar nod for it. Downey was able to display he could do both the comic slapstick with comical observations mixed with the serious drama of the film. He shows that there was tragedy in Chaplin's life and that like with most comedians there is a troubled background. He is a man who cares but is faulted as well, willing be selfish. And he is political, from his views against Nazism to his opinion that America needs to be open. And Downey does give an excellent English accent, making should he added authenticity to his role.Attenborough made sure there was a balance between the comic and the drama, though I personally preferred the more dramatic elements of the film. He uses screen wipes to give the film a feel of a silent movie and made should despite the 2 hours, 18 minute running time the film does have a fast pace to it. A problem is that some elements of the film does feel like they were rushed and skipped over and the scene in Utah which was done like a Chaplin silent film did not work for me in the context of the film. A scene thought that was really well handled was the ending (this is a SPOILER so look away now if you don't want to know) when Chaplin receives a life time achievement Oscar when they show clips of Chaplin's old films and Chaplin slowly starts to cry some tears: it was a scene that did not need words.Thematically the basic idea of the film is that it shows someone can fulfil the America dream, from poverty in London a man with talent can success in Hollywood if he just has the ambition and intelligence to do. He was a man who become a millionaire but still had sympathy for the have nots in society. There is the theme of Chaplin's wondering eye for younger ladies and his inability to keep a relationship going. The other idea of the film is America's distrust of anyone being critical of their society and system, that anyone who dares to criticise is tagged as a Communist or hates America, a problem that is still affecting the nation. It shows that under the era of Hoover and McCarthyism that people were hounded just because of their believes.
There are a lot of excellent thrillers coming out of Scandinavia at the moment, whether its Stieg Larrson's Millennium Trilogy and its film adaptations or the Danish series The Killing being a hit on television. Jo Nesbø is a respected crime novelist in his native Norway and his books are international best sellers. His stand-alone novel Headhunters has been given a cinematic treatment that has just arrived on DVD and Blu-ray. A Hollywood remake is already in the works.Harry Brown (Aksel Hennie) is a corporate headhunter and a talented art thief. He has a beautiful wife, Diana (Synnøve Macody Lund), but he lives way beyond his means and is on the edge of bankruptcy. In a chance meeting, Harry is introduced to Clas Greve (Nikolaj Coaster-Waldau of Game of Thrones fame), a successful electronics businessman and former NATO solider, the perfect candidate to become a senior manager of a company he has the contract for. Sweetening the deal, Greve has a lost Peter Rubens masterpiece that could solve Harry's money problems, but he has crossed the wrong man Greve hunts him down with more determination than The Terminator.Director Morten Tyldum delivers a very entertaining thriller filled with intense moments and action sequences when required. It even has a surprisingly humorous and cheeky tone at times. Like an Alfred Hitchcock movie, it features an ordinary man who is thrown into an extraordinary situation, and Tyldum gives this proved formula some extra energy. Headhunters also shares some plot elements with No Country For Old Men and Enemy of the State. At a brisk 100 minutes, it's fast-paced and wastes not a single frame.Harry starts off as a real scumbag, but because of the strength of the script, the direction and Hennie's excellent performance, we can slowly warm to him and his plight. Hennie has range as an actor; you can believe he is a man with no training and skill who must take on a Special Forces soldier. Coaster-Waldau shows real cunning and menace as he hunts Harry with ferocity. Eivind Sander as Harry's mole in the security company, Ove, was a very funny creation and really deserves a comedy spin-off of some sort.If it was not for the art theft at the very beginning, Headhunters starts as a quirky Euro film, but Tyldum blends the different tones to great effect, with neither the humour nor the brutal moments distracting from each other. There are some outlandish ideas, but it's not hard to suspend disbelief because it's so entertaining.Even with the strong pacing, there are a some small bridging scenes that have gone missing that will leave audiences with a few minor questions. It would have added a minute at most to the running time and given Headhunters just an extra boost in quality.This well-thought out, intelligent thriller really proves it is a golden age for the Scandinavian crime genre.Please visit www.playeraffinity.com
This was the film that made Daniel Craig into a star, and shows that Matthew Vaughan was a talented director.Layer Cake is a multi-layered, complex film, but is surprising easy to follow and a fairly short film: similar to a John Le Carre novel. The focus of the film is a successful middle-man cocaine dealer (Daniel Craig). He plans to retire young, but he is asked by his boss Jimmy (Kenneth Cranham) asks XXXX to find the missing drug addicted daughter of Edward Temple (Michael Gambon) and at the same time negotiate a large deal with a wannabe gangster The Duke (Jamie Foreman) who just stole one million ecstasy pills from some very angry Serbian gangsters. This leads XXXX in a dangerous world of treachery and double crossing and murder. This leads XXXX to doubt who to trust and what do to. As well, there are sub-plots involving a love-interest with Tammy (Sienna Miller) and XXXX's right hand man Monty (George Harris) gets revenge against the man who put him in prison.Layer Cake is based on a novel by J.J. Connolly, who wrote the screenplay. He shows he could write a complex film. Originally Guy Ritchie was due direct but he had to put out because of scheling conflicts. This was a blessing really because we all know that Ritchie would have just made Layer Cake a comical mockney fair. What Vaughen did was he played the material as straight as possible, keeping comedy to a minimum and a made an good example of a British Gangster film. Vaughen shows that he could handle the material and do some stylist directing trick like a pro, fitting in with the film. Vaughen assembled an excellent cast. Daniel Craig was brilliant and according to statements by Barbara Broccoli, this was the film that gave him the Bond gig. Michael Gambon was excellent, and they were good performances by Colm Meaney, George Harris, Jamie Foreman and Kenneth Cranham. Sienna Miller also shows she can act. As well there is a great twist to the film.I personally highly recommend this film.
Contains Spoiler!Raging Bull is my favourite Scorsese films and one of favourite films generally. The film follows the story of Jake LaMotta, a famous middle-weight boxing in the 1940s. In my opinion I believe the film is about the destruction of a person's character and how misleading the American Dream can be. In the film you see LaMotta as a successful boxer, but also a violent and abusive character. He was abusive to his first wife and ended up starting a relationship with a 15-year-old girl, Vicky. He had a loving relationship with her and ends up getting married but as the film progressives you see they relationship disintegrate. You see the same happen between Jake and his brother Joey who was also Jake's manager. LaMotta does make it to the top, becoming the world-champion and becoming well-off. However, after his career was over he moved to Florida, owned a nightclub before getting arrested. After he was released he ended up being a has-been performer.The direction by Scorsese is some of his best. He does some very good shots, the boxing scene are fantastic with the feeling that it was real. Filming the film in black and white also was an excellent move by the director. The performers were also top-draw. De Niro was perfect as Jake LaMotta, and he performed brilliantly with Joe Pesci and Cathy Moriarty. De Niro deserves to his Oscar for this film, and Pesci and Moriarty would have been up their. I also felt that this should have been the film Scorsese should have won his Oscar with.
Oldboy director Park Chan-Wook has come stateside to make his first American feature, and Stoker is a visually stunning, eerie movie.India Stoker (Mia Wasikowska) is an unusual teenager. She has a knack for the arts, hates being touched, and dresses in a very old-fashioned way. Her relationship with her mother, Evelyn (Nicole Kidman), is tense, and she often finds herself being sexually harassed by the jocks in her high school. On her 18th birthday, her father dies in a horrific car accident, and during his funnel she meets a man she did not know existed, her uncle Charlie (Matthew Goode). India does not trust this new man but slowly India and Evelyn are drawn to him, for different reasons.Park is known for being a fantastic director in his native South Korea and many of his movies are deservedly cult classics in the West. He moves to America by playing to his strengths, making a small character driven movie, filled with sexual tension and a creepy atmosphere. Every shot and camera movement was meticulously crafted, soaking you into the atmosphere. The camera moves with precision as we follow the action on the screen, and editor Nicolas De Toth did a brilliant job blending simultaneous events and flashbacks to the present.Throughout Stoker, there is a visual style that has similarities to Stanley Kubrick whilst employing the dark surrealism of David Lynch's work. There is a dreamlike quality throughout. One of the best moments that highlights this is when India and Charlie are up playing the piano together where no dialogue is needed, and it is left up to the audience to decide if the event was real or imaginary.Throughout Stoker, there are fantastic sequences with plenty of flair. Stoker is also a movie with substance, playing like a dark coming of age tale as India changes to be a more open and sexual person but also releases her inner demons. There are wider themes of nature versus nurture, asking which factor is more important in changing India's character. Most of the film is seen through India's eye, she is often present in some form, and there only a few scenes in which India is not around. The films progresses from India wanting to avoid her uncle to finally being brought into world of her mother and uncle, emphasising the change she goes through.The acting had a deliberately cool and distant quality to it. The characters are cold and repressed and show little emotion. It worked installing the distance tone and visuals that Park employs but it will leave audiences divided, with people either loving or hating the approach as it can seem occasionally stilted.Charlie act as different form of villainy, someone who is on the surface a smart and sophisticated man who enjoys opera, foreign languages and classic cars but harbours a dark secret. He is willing acts in his own self-interest and does whatever he can to cover his tracks. Charlie makes for more interesting villain, someone who does evil things but on the surface a seemingly charming man, making him a more compelling figure then someone who feels him needs to act out violently as often as possible. But Goode's performance is on the stiff side.Stoker is a very solid film that has moments of greatness. There are some truly excellent scenes and sequences in a movie that showcases Park's known skills behind the camera. Stoker may not be able to match some of Park's other works but it a film that will still please his many fans.Please visit www.entertainmentfuse.com
Fox Animation is a poor cousin to Pixar and Dreamworks which dominate the American and European market. Robots however is a good children's film, better then the Ice Age franchise which Fox keeps trying to push.The plot of Robots is focused on Rodney Copperbottom (Ewan McGregor), who has ambitions to become an inventor. He leaves his small town to live in Robot City. He wants for Bigweld (Mel Brooks), a major industrialist who put the people i.e. common robots first. However when Rodney arrives in the city he finds that all is not well, with the evil Ratchet (Greg Kinnear) wanting to stop making spare parts for older robots, and forcing them to get upgrades.The plot of Robots is clichéd and could be written on the back of a fag packet. They is the normal messages such as follow your dreams, it doesn't matter what you look like on the outside, a pseudo-Nazism from the villains and an anti-big business message (which is ironic considering Fox is a massive company). Adults can pick through the plot, but children won't mind. What makes this film work is the visual effects. They were top-notch and Robots wasn't a cheap cash-in. They were lovely designs, of both the robots and the environment, with Robot City reminding me of Metropolis. As well, the film also remembered me a little of Shrek 2 when they arrived in Far Far Away. They are good visual and verbal gags, with pop-culture reference which will make you smile. However, with some of the gags during the final fight scene weren't needed. There are also a couple of sex jokes which parents may not agree with. I personally thought Greg Kinnear was the best performance in the film and has some of the best lines. Ewan McGregor offered a perfect American accent, whilst Mel Brooks was perfectly casted as Bigweld. Amanda Byres was decent as a teenage robots, but Robin Williams was a bit over the top for my liking and Halle Berry may as well not bother to show up and any woman could have done her role.7.5 out of 10.
In a cinematic scene of superhero films and reboots one of the most controversial was The Amazing Spider-Man, the reboot of a series that was critically and commercially popular. The Amazing Spider-Man is divisive, with opinions ranging from it being the best Spider-Man film so far to being a waste of space.Peter Parker (Andrew Garfield) is a nerdy outsider who enjoys photography, inventing and skateboarding. His parents mysteriously run off in the middle of the night when he was young and he has been living with his Uncle Ben (Martin Sheen) and Aunt May (Sally Field) ever since. One evening Peter finds his father's briefcase which contents his research that he wanted to hid from mysterious forces. Peter is led to Oscorb, meeting his father's old research partner, Curt Connors (Rhys Ifans) and he ends up getting bitten by a genetically altered spider giving his spider powers.When Uncle Ben is murdered on the streets Peter goes on the hunt for his killer, leading him to become Spider-man. But at the same time Connors is forced to test an experimental serum on himself, leading him to become the Lizard, a powerful creature that is a deadly threat to the whole of New York.Let's get the comparisons to the original Spider-man films out the way: the special effects are better, I preferred the hyper-realistic look of this version then the original film and Garfield is a stronger Peter Parker/Spider-man then Tobey Maguire was. But Cliff Robertson was a better Uncle Ben and Rosemary Harris was perfect as Aunt May and Field was not able to compete. On the whole I felt that the original film was generally a better origins story: I preferred that Peter was bitten by a spider in a lab visit and I especially preferred Uncle Ben's death in the original film because it had more emotional impact and handled better because Peter comes up a real dick in The Amazing Spider-Man.There are also comparisons to actual scenes and ideas between the original film and the reboot which will lead to some spoilers. We get similar scenes of Peter awkwardly using his powers when he first gets them, citizens of New York (crane lift operators) helping Spider-Man during his confrontation with the villain and Peter losing a father figure which results in Peter having to reject the woman he loves. There are even similarities between the villains as both men are scientist are forced to experiment on themselves and developed a split personality.The Spider-Man origins story is equal to Superman and Batman for well-known it is and there is less leeway for reinterpretation. I personally felt that it was a waste going through the origins story again because it is so well known, killing the pacing especially because it takes an hours before we get to see Peter Parker don the spandex. It would have been more effective if Peter Parker was Spider-Man and the origin was done in flashbacks. But once Spider-Man does show up the pacing picks up with gusto and director Marc Webb shows great confidence with the action sequences and special effects (even more impressive considering his previous film was (500) Days of Summer).As a comic book fans I would have liked to have seen Curt Connors' family, adding to the dilemma of Peter Parker trying to stop the Lizard without harming him too much and made Connors more sympathetic. I also would have preferred to see more of a snout and be a raging beast: but Ifans is talented actor and it is good to see him in a Hollywood film. Ifans did have a great sinister delivery as The Lizard.One more small criticism is some of the humour in the first half film which was weak, a little awkward and was topped off by comedy music. It was out of place for a film going for a more serious tone.Danny Elfman did supply strong scores for the first two films, particular giving the series a signatory theme tone. Whilst James Horner's score for The Amazing Spider-man does not quite those heights he still gives the new series some good music that is dramatic, soaring and triumph when needed.On the whole there are elements which The Amazing Spider-Man does improve upon the original Spider-Man whilst the original Spider-Man was better on other parts. If there was a way to blend both films together then you would properly get the perfect Spider-Man film.
Indie cinema is often known for some really quirky and strange ideas; but few can come stranger then Being John Malkovich, an excellent debut film for Spike Jonze and Charlie Kaufman.Craig Schwartz (John Cusack) is a skillful, but unemployed puppeteer, living with his pet-obsessed wife Lotte (Cameron Diaz). Struggling for money Craig takes a job as a filing clerk on a strange, low-ceilinged 7 ½ floor in the Mertin Flemmer Building, New York City. He seems skills at the job, but he falls for another worker, Maxine (Catherine Keener), who do not share his feelings. Whilst working Craig finds a strange portal which allows him to be insight John Malkovich's (John Malkovich) head and his experience what he sees and feels for 15 minutes before landing by the New Jersey Turnpike. He tells Maxine who at first thinks he is mad but quickly sees it as a money making opportunity. Lotte too finds out and she uses the portal to live out her transgender fantasies. Quickly a three way conflict starts up and when Malkovich starts to have some very strange experiences he is thrown into the mix.In the late 90s, early noughties, some American films took a very surreal turn, Mulholland Drive was an excellent example. But whilst Mulholland Drive was played pretty straight, Being John Malkovich took a much more comic approach. There were funny lines throughout, but Jonze and Kaufman use the surrealism for comic effort as well, like when Malkovich climbs into the portal inside his own head. Being John Malkovich is a cleverly written film that is looks at the psychology of what makes the mind work and the ideas of identity. This is also at times a very dark film with it characterisation and raises some dark moral questions at the end. But it works because it is a very intelligence and it was well directed by Jonze who knows his way around a set-piece.There is a unusual cast in this film. Cusack is known for being a indie star, he is really well known for doing comedy. He was well casted as the lead character and shows his talent. Diaz was unrecognisable as sad, mentally confused wife who is the most tragic and sympathetic character in the piece: it also shows how a difference hair style and set of clothes makes to someone's appearance. Keener was decent as a bitchy, loathsome character for most of the film but at times her acting did slip. Malkovich also shows he has a talent to play himself. Politically he is a moron, but he is a very talented actor and I can set outside my political issues when watching him. Orson Bean too was very good as the mysterious Dr. Lester and he had excellent comic timing.A very entertaining but strange film.
Like most of Michael Bay's film they are a lot of problems with this film, being too long, bombastic, overly edited, has poor acting and dialogue and very right wing. Armageddon is one Bay's poorer films.The premise is simple, an asteroid the size of Texas is about to crash into Earth in 18 days. They has been a meteoroid shower destroys a NASA space shuttle and causes destruction in New York City. NASA and the American does not revile the fact that the asteroid was going to crash into the Earth. NASA also believe that a nuclear strike would not destroy the asteroid, so decide that they need a team to go onto the rock and drill a Nuclear bomb into it and destroy it that way. No NASA team is trained to do it, so NASA controller Dan Truman (Billy Bob Thornton) tries to recruit Harry Stumper (Bruce Willis), an oil driller who has a reputation for drilling in tough environment. He agrees to help but only if he could use his own team.The plot is complete rubbish. It's easy to poke holes into it, such as surely wouldn't NASA notice an asteroid the size of Texas much earlier? Why not just train a team of astronauts to do the drilling (Ben Affleck pointed that one out)? Why such an complex and expensive plan? Why not just get America and Russia to fire every missile they could at the rock? The film also breaks the laws of physics at many points. Such examples are how could a Space Shuttle land on a asteroid and how could an asteroid have Earth like gravity?Armageddon follows the two maxims of disaster movies; first America is great and second, what ever can go wrong will go wrong. This happens all the time in the film, such as the Russian space station blowing up, a space shuttle getting destroyed, one of the drilling missions flowing off into space, the other space shuttle nearly can't take off and it goes up to the last second before the bomb blows up. Also it shows its America that saves the world, that the Russians and even the Chinese are backwards, gives the shuttles the names Freedom and Independence.The biggest surprise to me is that J.J. Abrams co-wrote the script and he is a man who brought the world Alias, Mission Impossible III and the new Star Trek film. The film is too long, and drags very quickly. The film is also trying to be funny and most of the time the jokes fall flat.As a director who is most of the time derided anyway, Michael Bay does a really poor job here. He cuts too much so you can't see what's happening and they are many continuity errors. Such examples are when A.J. (Ben Affleck) is shot and changes which leg is shot and when the French Bulldog attacks Godzilla, from toy models to a giant balloon: a poor editing job there.The acting is hit and miss. Bruce Willis tries his best, but it's not his best work. Liv Tyler was hit and miss. Ben Affleck is poor as always. Steve Buscemi, Owen Wilson and Michael Clarke Duncan offer comedic relief, at least they have gone on to do better things. The strongest actors were Billy Bob Thornton who is excellent actor and Will Patton, whom character Chick does at least seem to have some depth to him.There are some positives. They are excellent special effects and action sequence, especially when New York suffers the meteoroid shower. The score is good, but can be overbearing at times.At least most of the people involved have done better things afterwards. Michael Bay did the Island and Transformers. Bruce Willis: Sin City, Live Free or Die Hard. Liv Tyler: Lord of the Rings, the Incredible Hulk. Michael Clarke Duncan: Sin City, The Green Mile, etc...It best not to see this film unless you really turn your brain off.
Drive was seen as one of the best films of 2011, so much so that fans were angered and upset that the Academy Award ignored it. It is fast becoming a cult classic and oozes style in what is a very brutal thriller.Driver/Kid (Ryan Gosling) is a young mechanic and part-time stunt driver who moonlights as a getaway driver for heists and bank robberies. He is a quiet man who lives alone, but he has a cool menace underneath. Driver soon befriends his neighbour Irene (Carey Mulligan) and her son Benicio (Kaden Leos). But when Irene's husband, Standard (Oscar Isaac) is released from prison, Driver ends up having to help the man with his protection debts and runs up against two powerful gangsters, Nico (Ron Perlman) and Bernie Rose (Albert Brooks).Nicolas Winding Refn is certainly showing why he is a hot young talent as a director, creating a dark, constantly tense film, amplified by the dark visuals and the 80s like soundtrack. Winding Refn knew how to build up scenes and develop characters even with a lack dialogue. The action and crimes scenes were quick and well shot, particularly the day light car chase and the shooting in the model. Some of the violence was a little over the top, which made the film deserve it's 18 rating in the UK, but it did add to the brutal nature of the film. There was always a constant brooding feeling about Drive, with it at boiling point all the time.The cast is great throughout. Gosling as already mention was a quiet character but felt like he can be really threatening when he did turn. There was a lot of mystery toward this character, we don't know his name let alone his past and Gosling brought that to live and making him seem like a character you do not want to mess with. Mulligan is of course a very talented actress and she shows it again here as she plays a regular, struggling lone mother and Brooks' character seem to have a lot more depth then just being a ruthless gangster, that he there is a real character and moral duality about him.Winding Refn certainly does not make out that they there is any glamour in this life of crime, Driver lives a lonely, isolated live and even when he does get close to someone he still tries to put some distance between them and unwilling or unable to love. The main gangsters were still just thugs, they did not live the high life, they dress in unflattering clothes and do not have legions of followers as they have to be very hands on in their profession. The crimes themselves are quick and the driving was explained by the fact that Driver is a stunt driver.Drive is a truly tense, stylised crime film that is filled with brutal violence yet still has a subtle feel about it. It really is a must see.
Following making Battleship Peter Berg needed to redeem himself, so made his dream project, an adaptation of Lone Survivor, serving as his love letter for the Navy Seals. Based on the true story of Operation Red Wing, Lone Survivor tells a similar story to Black Hawk Down where a operation to target a Taliban goes wrong, leading to a SEAL team of four have to fight for their lives against large force of Taliban fighters.The war action is brutal and bloody as Berg delivers a relentless firefight between the SEALS and the Taliban. The action was the best part of the film as Berg and his cinematographer use a hand-held cameras and a liberal use of blood packs, making the war scenes seem like Saving Private Ryan. But the SEALS goes through a lot of punishment, getting shot up, getting their parts of their bodies blown off and still keep on fighting.There is a good cast and they do a solid job in their respective roles, being believable in their relationship. But the actors have little to work on: there is no characterisation, we do not know much about the men we are following and the main reason to support the Americans simply because the Taliban commander was worst, beheading people readily. This is a film that does not go into the complexities of the War in Afghanistan and simply made as a film about surviving in impossible odds as everything goes wrong, from the lack of support from outside and the radio going wrong early on.The battle scenes were expertly done and fans of war films will enjoy that aspect of the film. But Lone Survivor is too thin of an experience on a story and character level.
After Paul Haggis won an Best Picture Oscar for Crash and showed his written talent in a wide range of films from Bond to Letters to Iwo Jima to Million Dollar Baby he could do almost anything he wanted. In 2007 he directed his second feature film, based on a script he wrote with Mark Boal (writer of the Hurt Locker).Hank Deerfield (Tommy Lee Jones) is a patriotic Vietnam veteran and former Military Police officer whom son, Mike, has been servicing in Iraq. When his son returns he goes AWOL and Hank goes into the town that his unit is based to investigate. The army protects there own and the civilian police can not investigate because it is the army's jurisdiction. But when Mike's body is found craved up in a field Hank starts to investigate with Emily Saunders (Charlize Theron), a local CID officer and they discover a dark web that could lead to drug use, Mexican gangs and distrust within the unit.In the Valley of Elah is a good for a number of reasons. First and foremost is Jones' performance as a both a grieving father who is discovering the true life his son led and as a skilled and knowledgeable investigator offering his abilities and going off himself to find his son's killer. Theron too is excellent, as a police officer who does not command the respect from her colleagues despite she obvious detective abilities whilst being a single mother to her young son. Most of the cast did a decent job, from the slimy Army investigator played by Jason Patric (he seems to have a nack for playing slimy roles) to Susan Sarandon as a grief stricken mother. One of the biggest focuses of Haggis' writing is character development, showing how people grow and change and act during the situation. The main two characters are well written and fall of depth, particular Hank who is made out to be pretty much a Conservative Republican.As a plot In the Valley of Elah is very interesting, working well as a thriller. Haggis keeps the mystery going throughout the film: he does not linger to much on who killed Mike and focuses on Hank's abilities as an investigator. The murder was gruesome, the product of a traumatised mind. Haggis made sure the film was fast paced and interesting for anyone who enjoys police films. There are also themes about the American military protecting their own people, not letting the civilian police investigate even when a major crime has been committed. There are ideas about the American military lowering their standards to ensure they have the manpower to fight the Iraqi War and questions American military policy in that war torn country, whilst trying to fight the war on the cheap. Another theme is the setting of the base is in a run down town in the South of America, a town with no industry and just filled with small store and social issues and a high murder rate. The type town that is often forgotten and the army is the only option. The other theme is about American patriotism, where you can only show it is by serving in the military; Americans tend to be very insecure about seeming patriotism, refusing to criticise anyone who claims to be speaking for Americans (i.e. the Republicans use of the politics of fear).In the Valley of Elah is a anti-war film, but it does not focus on the false reasons why America when into that nation. Instead it focuses on the affects of war on individual soldiers who have come back from war (a little like First Blood) and on military conduct in the war. The military wants to protect itself and its personnel, but it is the same in many countries not just America. And the film looks at how America has ignored its domestic problems for the sake of a pointless war. But first and foremost, In the Valley of Elah is made as a compelling thriller about a father trying to find his son's murders and discover what his son is really like.
At the age of 78 Clint Eastwood has by all accounts retired from acting and used Gran Torino as his last leading role. The man has established himself as one of the best directors around, directing Unforgiven, Flags of Our Fathers Letters from Iwo Jima and Invictus, just to mention a few and at 80 his is still very active. But of course, he will also be remembered for being the Man With No Name and Harry Callahan.Walter Kowalski (Clint Eastwood) is a grumpy old man. He is a Korean War veteran, his wife has just died and he has a soar relationship with his sons and grandchildren. He is racist towards oriental people, which makes things really complex because his formerly white working-class is now dominated by poor Asian immigrants, including his new neighbours from the Hmong people. But when the younger son Thao (Bee Vang) is being pushed into joining a gang led by his cousin Walt gets involved and becomes a local hero, much to his reluctant. As a way to make amends for trying to steal Walt's prized Gran Torino Thao works for the pensioner and the two start to form a bond. Walt becomes a father figure to the teenager. But the gang still tries to make Thao join them.Gran Torino was always going to be judged on Eastwood's performance because it was meant to his last. Luckily Eastwood is very good playing both a grumpy old man with horrible views on race and the classic view that kids these days have no respect, but also a man who wants to keep his independent and is pretty much Harry Callahan as a pensioner. But he does also speak the truth sometimes like when a white teenagers tries to dress as a black gang member and ends ups being rejected by black people, which Walt saying he doesn't blame them (and this is from a racist man). There is also a good cast of mostly unknowns, with Ahney Her being excellent playing Sue, Thao's older sister who is a strong willed, intelligence girl who acts as Walt's mentor into the Asian world. Vang too is a good young actor who very believable as a teenager at a crossroads and needed a little toughening up.Eastwood is also a very skillful director as he has shown many times before. He is able to keep the film at a first pace when most directors would have made similar scenes slow and drawn out. He is also able to keep a fresh sense in a film which could have easily have been bogged down in clichés. Eastwood is also able to crafts some good set pieces in the sub-urban setting, like the fight in the garage with flickering light. Gran Torino is also violence but Eastwood does not relish on it and this film is not as right-wing to say Dirty Harry which tries to justify vigilante actions. Whilst the film is sombre at times Eastwood is also able to lighten up and have a few jokes in the film just to offers some lighter moments. It does however get a lot more serious by the third act.I admit I did not think the film was anything surprise at first and it is hard to like Walt as a character, even if it is justified able his family. But it growth on me and I was able to give Gran Torino a higher rating. This is thanks to Eastwood's skillful direction.I also like the military style drumming in the score, a symbol of military past.I do however think the IMDb rating is too high. Gran Torino is a good film, but not a great film. A rating of around 7.5 to 7.7 would be more fairer. It is not one of the top 250 films ever to be made.
Because of the success of Lord of the Rings and Gladiator, historical epics have become big business. 2004 became the year of modern sword-and-sandal epics, Troy, King Arthur and Alexander. On paper Alexander should have been Oscars gold, it had a big name director, Oliver Stone and it's about possibly the greatest general the world has ever known. Sadly, the film was a flop.Alexander looks at a few key moments of Alexander the Great's (Colin Farrell) life, the death of his father Philip II, the conquest of Persia, his marriage to Roxana (Rosario Dawson), relationship with Hephaestion (Jared Leto) and mother Queen Olympias (Angelina Jolie), his fail conquest of India and his rebellious army and generals. It is show in flash-forwards and flash-back, and shows how Alexander goes naive in Persia, becoming more Persian then Greek, leading to conflict with his generals. It also shows his drive to conquer over anyone who challenged him, and set out to unite the world. He wanted to make a united world where people were treated equally.The Revisited version is 3 hours 30 minutes, a very long film and much of it is wasted. Instead on forcing on the politics and the military aspects, the film ponders and becomes very boring. The film skips over important parts of Alexander life and some of the most important battles and reasons for the war were missed. It does not show that Alexander turned Macedonia from a backwater to a superpower of the ancient world. The other major problem was the story being told in a non-linear way which is confusing and pointless, the film should have been told straight like most films. It was also confusing with the large number of characters where you don't even know their names and couldn't care less for them. The casting of the film is extremely poor. Colin Farrell is a very poor actor general and unconvicting Alexander, Rosario Dawson played her role like vampire, why? Angelina Jolie is normally a good actress, but she was too glamorous for her role in a modern way and her accent was strangle, the casting director should have just casted an actress in her late 30s, early 40s from Germany or Eastern Europe. Jared Leto was underused, he hasn't got the roles he deserved after the great Requiem for a Dream. Surprising, Val Kilmer, an actor who is normally as wooden as tree, wasn't bad in this film. For a film that tries to be realist, it's a very camp bit of film-making and has some terrible dialogue, over-the-top accents and unnecessary dancing and partying.The saving grace of the films is the very realist, brutal battles, showing how tough warfare would have been. It was well done, but they were only two battles in the film. At times they seemed like Rome: Total War the film, but there are juicy bits as well. They should have been more fighting.Hopefully there will be a good Alexander the Great film in the future. It would also be good material for a HBO miniseries. As well, Oliver Stone needs to find his mojo again.
Star Trek II: Wrath of Khan is often considered to be the best of all the Star Trek films, sometimes the best of all Star Trek media. Made as a sequel to the episode Space Seed Wrath of Khan was a film that could easily appeal to non-fans like me whilst still pleasing the many fans of the series. Wrath of Khan works is the story of Kirk being called into action and Khan's desire for revenge against Kirk despite it defying logic. It is a film about the interplay and duel of minds between the adversaries as well their relationship with their crews, particular between Kirk, Spock, Bones and newcomer Saavik. Adding to the experience is some decent model works, including a scene with a mind control insect and an excellent score by James Horner, the film that made his name as a composer.
In the 1980s American intercities became notorious for becoming horrible slums, with people becoming addicted to crack and heroin. People started to take more drugs, in North America, Western Europe and even in the Soviet Union. Many countries ended up supplying the drugs, such as Columbia, Panama and Afghanistan. Ronald Reagen even declared on the war on drugs, a massive domestic and international effort to stop the flow of drugs in America. America is still fighting this war. The war on drugs became a source of influence to American storytellers, such as Tom Clancy with his good novel Clear and Present Danger, some episodes of the greatest American TV show the West Wing, and of course, Traffic, which was based on a British TV series. The action within Traffic ends up transfered from the UK to the United States and Mexico.Traffic tells three interwoven stories. One story is set in Mexico, about a Baja Californian police officer, Javier Rodriguez (Benicio Del Toro): an officer who isn't corrupt. He gets recruited by General Salazar (Tomás Milián), who is the head of Mexican anti-drugs campaign. In Ohio and Washington D.C. Robert Wakefield (Michael Douglas) becomes the head of the director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy, and sees that massive scope of the problem. His 16-year-old daughter Caroline (Erika Christensen), who is a very intelligence, happens to be addicted to heroin and cocaine. Robert has to tackle both a massive political problem, and a problem at home. The third story is set in San Diego, about Helena Ayala (Catherine Zeta-Jones), a suburban woman whom happen has been arrested for being a drug boss. She ends up getting in debt and struggling to survive. Her husband is being investigated by DEA agents Montel Gordon (Don Cheadle) and Ray Castro (Luis Guzmán). Helena is slowly forced into dark underbelly of crime.All three stories could easily have worked as individual films: but Stephen Gaghan and Steven Soderbergh have done a brilliant job combining the three stories in a really compelling film. It shows the complex nature of the war on drugs, from the cartels in Mexico who supply the drugs (and as we have seen recently Mexico is turning Columbia), law-enforcement in both the United States and Mexico, the actions that American politicians takes, from treatment problems, to law enforcement, and the personal efforts it on people. It's a complex film, and that's what makes it good. Gaghan deserves his Oscar for screenplay. Soderbergh won a Best Oscar for Traffic. He was nominated the year before for Edin Brockovich, which was a more Hollywood type film, Traffic had a more independence feel to it, and is Soderbergh's best film. He keeps the balance of all three story, not letting any of them drop. The film is wonderfully shot, using different filters and colours for the different stories. The Mexican story shot almost like a 70s style thriller, the Wakefield story is shot with blue lighting, giving it a more indie drama feel, and the action in San Diego is shot like a normal American film/TV programme, like the Wire. They is good pacing, and keeps the film going. He shows real skill dealing with a complex script.There is an excellent cast to the film, Benicio Del Toro and Don Cheadle are two talented actors who rarely put a foot wrong, both giving very good performance. Michael Douglas is in his best role since playing Gordon Gekko in Wall Street. This is easily going to be the best film Catherine Zeta-Jones will ever do. Erika Christensen gives a compelling performance as a drug addicted teenager, whilst Topher Grace is perfectly annoying (as he was meant to be). However, I did not like the slightly camp quality in Tomás Milián's performance.A brilliant film, 5 out of 5.
Futurama is a brilliant show, great comedy which uses many types of comedy. It has parody, witty dialogue, one-liner jokes, slapstick and psychical humour, the list goes on. It is similar to the Simpsons in style and humour, but it is better in sense that it can get away with more outlandish plots because of its sci-fi elements.The plot of the show is that Fry is a pizza delivery boy from New York in 1999. He accidentally gets frozen and wakes up in the 3000. He befriends a cyclops called Leela (who he fancies) and Bender, a robot with no morals what so ever. He works for a delivery company for his great (mulitple times) nephew Professor Farnsworth with other characters like Amy Wong and Dr. Zoidberg. They are other supporting characters (like in the Simpsons) who show up from time to time. They are the TV reporters, Richard Nixon (president of Earth) and the aliens of Omicron Persei 8. I personally like the relationship between Zap Brannigan and Kip (who is just so submissive). Futurama can get away with darker plots, like when Fry ended up sleeping his grandmother, to ending on emotional points, I personally felt sad at the end of Jurassic Bark where it end seeing Fry's dog waiting for Fry but he never returns.Out of all the character Bender is the best, just because of his lack of morals and just does what he wants. He really doesn't care about anyone but himself and that's what makes him a great character.Like the show Red Dwarf, Futurama uses all tries of sci-fi elements in its plots, including time and space travel, cloning and robot technology. It also parodies many sci-fi films and programmes such as Star War, Star Trek, 2001: A Space Odyssey. It also parodies other thinks such as gangster films, political issues like Global Warming, music like the Beastie Boys to Religion, Economics and Philosopy.The only problems with the show was that it poached some of the best writers form the Simpsons like David X. Cohen and Josh Weinstein, a part cause for that show's decline, and the fact that it was cancelled by Fox. It should be recommissioned because it has great scoop and has the potential for a number of plots.Futurama is good show, great comfort viewing.
Predator is easily recognized as one high points of 1980s action films from a period of that produced some of the best action film we know. It followed the success of Alien which was a excellent hybrid of sci-fi and horror. Seeing that Hollywood has been rebooting a number of franchise from the 80s (e.g. Die Hard and Indiana Jones), it surprising that it took so long for the Predator series to be revisited (excluding the Alien vs. Predator movies). But this time Robert Rodriguez and Nimrod Antal are taking a stab at his popular material in the producer and director's chairs.On a mysterious jungle planet a group of humans are thrusted into the middle of a strange world. This mixed group contents an American mercenary (Adrien Brody), an Israeli sniper (Alice Braga), Russian soldier (Oleg Taktarov), Sierra Leonian rebel death squad officer (Mahershalalhashbaz Ali), Mexican drug cartel enforcer (Danny Trejo), death row inmate (Walton Goggin), a doctor (Topher Grace) and a Yakuza assassin (Louis Ozawa Changchien), because team is not complete without a man with a sword. This ragtag are forced to work together as they are hunted by 3 powerful predators hunt them and picking them off one by one.Predators had to go on a long journey starting in 1994 when Rodriguez first pitched the idea. A number of directors were considered for the job including Neil Marshall (The Descent), Peter Berg (Hancock) and Marcus Nispel (Pathfinder) before Antal got the gig. Antal did a decent job, creating a dark, broody atmosphere whilst keeping a B-movie quality. Predators is fast paced, with a combination of action, horror and humour. With a budget of $45 Million the special effects are strong and it is entertaining with wide use of weapons in the film. But Antal was fond of showing the same scene from different angles, which is just an old fashioned, pointless action trick that is no longer used. Antal does not hold back on the violence which is what the audience will want to see in a Predator movie and he is subtle early on in the film when some characters disappear. He was able to bring in some moments of style and had some good creature designs to show he was more then a gun-for-hire.The acting too was of a decent level, but nothing beyond that. Brody is a talented actor and obviously trying his best, but he was miscasted as the tough action hero. His character was the most interesting, having to be a cunning and ruthless leader. Grace was in the film to offer comic relief and he did pretty well for the most part. The only other actor was Braga who was basically okay in the film. Most of the other actors were just stock characters waiting to be picked off by the Predators. Laurence Fishborne was also in the film but his acting was no where near his usual high standards. We just do not get to know these characters very well which is a big let down.The main problem with Predators is with the writing. The film was written by two first time writers and it seems they do not have a understanding of some elements of the original film. The best is the set, that one predator was able take on a team of US Special Forces fairly easily, so 3 predators should be able to fight a team of individuals: especially since two of them only armed with a knife and a scalpel and another with a pistol; a bit of a continuity error there. The film was filled with characters that the audience can not care able because we hardly get to know them. The film just goes through the motions till they are killed off. Added with inept, bland dialogue its ruin the illusion of film. The writers do attempt to bring in some interesting like a blood feud between two breeds of Predators, but does expand it. There is a fun to be had showing characters using their special forces skills and many of them are ruthless in their approach. None of the characters was a good guy back on Earth. The best aspects of the writing is bringing in a simple set-up which hark back to the original film. But it does not match that film's quality.
We have all heard the horror stories of parties being posted on the Internet with events spiralling out of control. This story idea serves as the basis for Todd Phillips' (The Hangover) latest movie, Project X, which he produced. He intended it to combine teen comedies/party movies like Old School with found-footage films such as Paranormal Activity.Thomas Kub (Thomas Mann) is a high-school student from Pasadena who is about to celebrate his 17th birthday. His friend Costa (Oliver Cooper) plans to host the most epic party possible at Thomas' house when his parents are away in effort to change their loser status. Costa spreads the word throughout the school and on the Internet, but the party is bigger than anyone could imagine. As Thomas tries to control the situation there is also romance in the air; he must choose between his long-time friend, Kirby (Kirby Bliss Blanton), and the most popular girl in school, Alexis (Alexis Knapp).Because of the success of The Blair Witch Project and Paranormal Activity, the found-footage genre has become popular, with this already being the third movie in that style in 2012 alone (after The Devil Inside and Chronicle). It's a cheap alternative, so now studios are trying to extend it into other genres, and an R-rated teen comedy seems as good as any.But Project X is blighted by montages, using music, multiple cameras and cuts. The explanation for the filmmaking style is that it's meant to be a birthday video for Thomas, but it begs the questions of why film something so self-incriminating and also how did the characters get all this footage? Dax (Dax Flame) serves to be no more than the cameraman, not having a personality whatsoever, and he has a very voyeuristic filming style.The movie pushes its premise to its extreme. It features 12-year-old security guards with Tasers, people jumping the room with skateboards, a crotch-punching midget and an angry drug dealer with a flamethrower. Considering the idea of using found footage is usually meant to bring a sense of realism, that was thrown out the window early.As a comedy, Project X is not funny enough. The dialogue lacks wit and most scenes rely on more crude and physical humour, such as dogs humping things, because that is always funny. It does have its moments, but the best bits tended to be in the trailer.As for the characters, Costa is big dick and one of the most annoying characters imaginable. Think Jay from The Inbetweeners without the redeeming features. He brags all the time, uses his friends and looks only for sex. He throws the party for his own selfish reasons. Of course the character was likely written this way to some extent, so Cooper performed decently, but deliberately making him annoying worked a bit too well. Costa was the type of person I'd personally want to punchand then again when he gets back up.The acting throughout is pretty good from the young cast. Thomas is a decent kid pressured into having this party who tries to keep order when chaos descends around him. It is sad then when he changes in a negative way. Jonathan Daniel Brown is basically a young Jonah Hill, and Blanton reminded me of Dianna Agron from Glee, a nice person and easily desirable. So why would Thomas' eye wonder to Alexis? There is a mean spirit behind this movie. Why should we support these people turning a suburban home into a rave and ruining the lives of the people around them ? None of the characters face real punishment. Instead, they celebrates their excess at the expense of others.The R-rated high-school comedy always has an audience and I am sure Project X will develop a fan base, but it will surely attract as many dissenters as it will fans.Rating: 4.5/10
Shrek is fun movie that the whole family can enjoy. It takes fairy tales that people would have learn as a child and puts a twist on them and has many cultural references for children and adults. The story of the film is Shrek is an ogre living a peaceful in his swamp. However, this was going to be shattered when the evil Lord Farquaad starts rounding up fairy tale creatures and forces them onto his home. Shrek being annoyed decides to go to Farquaad's castle with the very annoying Donkey and get his swamp back. Farquaad has ambitions to be a king and to do this he needs to marry a princess. He tell Shrek that if the ogre saves Princess Fiona then he would get his swamp back. However, after saving the princess he starts to fall in love with her.Firstly the story is fun and fresh. It was the best animated film in 2001 by a small margin above Monsters Inc. Both would have been very deserving for winning an Oscar for that year. It does have homages to famous family films such as Snow White and show many fairy tales from Pinocchio, to the Three Little Pigs, to Three Blind Mice. It also has wider cultures references, such as the music used and moments such as Princess Fiona fighting Robin Hood and his Merry Men and moment copied from the Matrix. The movie was well written with some very good jokes and scenes. One scene I enjoyed was when the Gingerbread man was tortured by Lord Farquaad. The animated itself was also brilliant. The creature actually looked real and gives Pixar a run for its money. In an age where many studios make CGI films to make quick money its nice to see that this film was made with effort. This is a great film and the second is just a good, but Shrek the Third was a real let down.
Based on the novel The Dark Fields by Alan Glynn, Limitless has been gaining glowing reviews from different publications, like Empire, Time Out and Spill.com. But to me it is a film that a win for style over substance.Eddie Morra (Bradley Cooper) is a struggling writer suffering from writer's block and girlfriend (Abbie Cornish) broke up with him. His ex-brother-in-law Vernon Gant (Johnny Whitworth) sees him on the streets of Manhattan and offers him special drug, NZT. NZT increases a person's intelligence and makes them use 100% of their brain. Eddie starts taking it, finishing his book in four days and starts playing the stock market, making a massive fortune. He gets to work for a powerful businessman, Carl Von Loon (Robert De Niro) but slowly Eddie becomes more addicted the drug, suffering side-effects like confusion and memory loss and gets in deep with Russian gangsters and running into trouble with business rivals and the police.Neil Burger certainly made a great effort to make what could have been an internal story into a visual experience. One element of his direction that worked was showing before any takes NZT the world is shot with a drab grey filter and afterwards the world is bright, a symbol of the potential a person can fulfil. There are visual tricks like letters raining from the ceiling or seeing numbers ceiling like on a old airport message broad. But some moments are very trippy whether it was a small thing like seeing many hands or showing the passage of time and location using a mirror scene like the White Spites music video for Seven Nation Army. Some of the scenes showing the negative effects of the drugs and the withdrawal symptoms felt like Burger was trying to make a mainstream Requiem for a Dream. Overall there is not much in the actual plot and the film was disengaging. Some events felt like their were skipped over which I sure were possibly were looked at more detail in the novel. Spill.com claimed that Limitless was a lot like Fight Club: but I think it's a long way from matching that film.Cooper's character joked to his two bodyguards never wear the same suit: this is not The Matrix, I certainly agree with that statement. There is also a scene when Cornish is clashed over a ice rink and basically I thought how could anyone do that on shoes without falling over: there is also another plothole that scene took play in around April, when most outdoor ice rinks in New York are only open in the winter.The acting is fine throughout the film: it is good to see that at least Robert De Niro is trying to fine a decent film (compared to Little Fockers). Bradley Cooper was perfectly fine as the lead and he will get more leading roles. But his character was nihilistic, a character who used his new gifts for himself to make money and sleep with woman. It could be argued that would be how a person would really act if they had developed this level of intelligence but it made it hard to make an audience sympathise. Andrew Howard who played the Russian Gangster Gennady looked to me very much like cross between Jason Statham and the computer game character Niko Belic. Sadly many of the female characters just disappeared off the screen.
Highlander is a cult classic from the 1980s with many fans and for better and for worst spawned a franchise. It was a film that became known for making Christopher Lambert a star, showed Sean Connery in a mentor role and had a soundtrack supplied by Queen. But it is a film that has not aged as well some people have hoped.Conner Macleod (Lambert) is the Highlander in question, an immortal man who was born in 16th Century Scotland. He has lived for centuries, leading him to New York in 1985. The immortals are few in number, they can only be killed by beheading and when there is only one left they will gain the prize. By 1985 there are only two immortals left, Macleod and a brutal warrior known as The Krugan (Clancy Brown), an immortal who can spell doom for humanity if he wins the Prize.Highlander tells it story in flashbacks about Macleod's life, mainly in Scotland as he coached by Ramierz (Connery), a 2000-year-old Egyptian immortal pretending to be Spanish as well as focus on his relationship with his wife, Heather (Beatie Edney). The other side of the story is in contemporary New York where the police investigating the beheading, a forensics officer, Brenda Wyatt (Roxanne Hart) with knowledge about swords tries to find out who a man called Russell Nash (Lambert) really is and The Krugan who is on the search for Macleod. The flashbacks were clear in its objective, set up the rules of the world and follows Macleod and his loved ones. But the modern half of the story is much little focused with much of it on the police investigation whose affects are damped because of the flashbacks. There are moments that could easily have been cut, like a scene where Macleod meets another immortal which was just a quick fleeting scene and the character gets killed very quickly and many of the sequences with the police could have been changed to a media reaction.The director Russell Mulcahy came from a music video background and it shows with his very stylised approach. He has a tendency to use low shots, tracking shots and there was plenty of smoke and fog effects. New York was a dark, grim city and the film has a continuous moody look, from the backalleys to the industrial sites. When we see the battle in the Highlands looked very much like a music video, particularly with the Krugan dressed in a skull. The transitions to the flashbacks are done with tricks like pans, such as from a fish tank to a loch and the screen smashing like glass to go back to World War II.For an action film, Highlander is disappointing. The sword fighting is very slow and cumbersome for the most part and some parts were very cheesy, like the first fight where rival fighter does backflips and acrobatics. The best sequence was the very final fight sequence where the fight was shot mostly with wide shots and the action was more fluid. Cinematographer Gerry Fisher was very strong at showing the moody cityscape to beauty of the isolated mountains of the Scottish Highlands.When Lambert was cast he had very limited English and it was made more bizarre that he was playing a Scottish character and a Scottish actor was playing a non-Scot character. In the trivia section it stated that Lambert worked with a vocal coach to give Macleod a non-specific accent, but his natural French accent was prominent. But Lambert did on occasion have a good delivery with some of his lines. Brown too was okay as the villain, having a distinctive voice and he certainly looked like a psychopath.Queen supplied the soundtrack and that is always a bonus, giving us song like Who Wants to Live Forever and Princes of the Universe. There is a particularly nice moment in the score when uses Who Wants to Live Forever in love scene.The 1980s has produced better films an better actioners. Highlander is by no means a bad film, but it is not an almighty classic either and it has not stood the test of time like The Terminator has.
12 Angry Men is one of those films with a high reputation, high in the IMDb top 250 and a rare 100% rating on Rotten Tomatoes. I too think its a very good film.The premise for the film is very simply, a jury of 12 men much decide on whether an 18-year-old man is guilty of murdering his father. If they find him guilty then the defendant would be sent to the electric chair. The film is set in a small room, on one of the hottest days of the year in a New York Court. The jury at first vote that the man is guilty, all but Juror #8 (Henry Fonda). He believes there is enough reasonable doubt and it is up to convict them of that, looking at all the evidence, witness testimony and pretty much the whole trial. Juror #8 is a righteous man who is trying to do the right thing, give the man the fair trial he deserves. He gains allies along the way and they are sympathetic characters, but they are rivals, especially the hostile Juror #3 (Franchot Tone), who is convinced of the man's guilt.12 Angry Men is based on a play by Reginald Rose, and it shows with excellent dialogue, a tight plot and great character development. It's writing at its best. The director Sidney Lumet, keeps the film within it play roots, keeping the film in a close, claustrophobic environment, like a real jury would be under. They are some wonderful shots and close ups, especially at the beginning when follow many different conversations in one continuous tracking shot for 5 minutes. Lumet knew how to work the camera, use the script, keep the tension going and gets the best out of his actors. This is a strong debut from a legendary director. 12 Angry Men is also great example of an actor's film. You believe in these actor's performance and all of them are on the top of their game, matching each other. Henry Fonda said this is one of his favourite films. Some of the characters are likable, some unlikeable, but all are real.The film also raises questions about legal ethic, the American legal system, the American constitution and is international in its message to any country that has trial by jury. It shows many different sectors of American society at the time.
Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart is one of the most famous musicians ever to walk the Earth, making some of the greatest pieces of music you will ever hear. He lived a tragic life, being taught to play and write music at a young age, living a life where music was the most important thing of his life, lived for most of his life in debt and died young. So a bio-pic of one of Austria's greatest sons seems like a great subject.Amadeus is based on a play by Peter Shaffer, and directed by Milo Forman who did excellent work with another play conversion, One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest (please note it was also a novel). The focus of this film is on the Italian composer Antonio Salieri (F. Murray Abraham), who was Emperor Joseph II (Jeffrey Jones) of Austria's court composer. Salieri was a man who wanted to know Mozart (Tom Hulce) because of his talent, but dishearted to discovery he was really no more then a man-child. Mozart is rude, volga, insulting and loves nothing but to drink and party. He seems like he doesn't have to try to make great music and insults Salieri's efforts. Salieri sets himself a mission to destroy Mozart, making him lost favour within the court, make such he can't get money and drive him insane.Let's start out of the good points. They is great music, there is no denying it. They are great pieces by Mozart and Salieri throughout the film. Even if you don't know classical music that well you properly heard some of Mozart's pieces. This film is Milo Forman's best performance as a director. I love One Flow Over the Cuckoo's Nest, but that was more an actor's film then one that show's a director's talent. With Amadeus Forman keeps the story going, focusing on the characters, the themes and uses the music to great affect. They are a number of good scenes throughout the film and he deserves a best director nod. He uses the music very effectively, such as when Salieri looks at Mozart's pieces on paper. They is wonderful art direction, getting the piece and the way the court look right. The Stanley Kubrick film Barry Lyndon must have been an influence. The script is well structured, going back and forth from the framing device. F. Murray Abraham offers an excellent performance as Salieri, being both a hero and a villain at the same possible. He deserved his Oscar as well. The film also looks at the themes of mass-produced music, whether it is better to produce music for the elites or the masses, the theme of envy and how it could affect a man to explore his dark side and the fact that Mozart's talent is both his gift and his curse; how it ended up destroying him.But this film is not perfect. I did not like the casting of Tom Hulce, except for the scene of Mozart dying I thought his performance was weak. He has a very annoying laugh and just seems too focused on making the character look at something from the Frat Pack. Kenneth Branngh would was originally casted would have been a lot better. I also did not like the script using modern language and the use of profanity. I think this was done to dumb down the film and appeal to Americans ready then for artistic merit. The film is also historically inaccurate; normally it would drop points with me but they are strengths and I love the music. I dislike how Mozart was portrayed, being so immature and so volger. In real they was mutual respect between Mozart and Salieri. At times you couldn't feel sympathy for Mozart.If you enjoy Mozart's music you will like this film. It is a good drama, but worthy of top 250? Doubtful. But it's worth watching.
Back in 1982 Disney was starting to take their first attempts of making sci-fi films, starting with TRON, an revolution for computer graphics. Whilst the film was not a success at the time it has become a cult classic and after 28 years a sequel was released.Kevin Flynn (Jeff Bridges) is a skilled software engineer and arcade owner who attempts to hack into ENCOM's computers to retrieve evidence that the company executive Ed Dillinger (David Warner) had stolen his computer games codes. Dillinger himself runs a programme called Master Control (voiced by Warner) and uses it to commit corporate espionage and he Dillinger discontinues the TRON programme that could act as a third party watch on other programs. But Master Control has gone rogue and starts to hack into the Pentagon and Kremlin.Flynn and his friends Alan (Bruce Boxleitner) and Lora (Cindy Morgan) break into ENCOM so Flynn could straight into the system, but Master Control uses a experimental laser to teleport the man into the digital world. In this new world Flynn not only has to survive in the computer but also has to stop Master Control.TRON was made at a time when computer games and home computing was starting to grown and the film makers wanted to tap into that. It was also a time of growing paranoia about the grown computers, Wargames was only released a year later. Ideas in TRON seem to be an influence or at a coincidence in other films, TV shows and comics, such as The Terminator, The Matrix, Digimon being ones on the top of my head. The design for Master Control was also very similar to VIKI in I, Robot, who also have similar plans.The big selling point of the film is the visuals. The scenes in the real world are shot much like other sci-fi of them. There are some dark scenes in offices, the arcade and the cityscape, but there are also bright, well light scenes in the sterile environment in the labs. But it is the computer world scenes we are most interested in and it is basically what would it be like in a 1980s arcade game. It was both dark and black, with bright colours all around. The director Steven Lisberger certainly used what was new technology to its fullest and he made a fast paced film with grand set pieces. The beginning of the film also reminded of some fantasy, Master Control being like an evil ruler or wizard, rounding people up, torturing people and even threatens his own people.The film also reminded me of a childish idea I used to have that all computing is interlinked, including computer games and many basic things that are electronic. But obviously I outgrown that idea and this was a film where ideas of computing and the internet were at a very early stage.Bridges plays cocky man who is incredibly skilled but can also rub people the wrong way. He had good interplay with Boxleitner, both having a love triangle and being antagonistic towards each other despite being one the same side. Warner too gives Dillinger some depth because he is shocked that Master Control has developed his own consciousness and blackmails him, fearing what machine could do with high politics. Also Boxleitner and Warner also made sure they were playing different characters from one the in the real world to the ones in the character.I have to say some of the plot elements are a bit predictable and it was simply a quest film, but they has been much worst and stupid ideas been put to film.Overall, TRON is enjoyable I think an overall IMDb rating of 7.2/7.3 would be fair.
Kung Fu Panda was a critical and commercial success in 2008, making over $630 Million worldwide and was very popular in the lucrative Chinese and Asian markets. It was considered a return to form for Dreamworks and of course with all these factors a sequel was inevitable. And you know what, Kung Fu Panda 2 is just as good as the original.In Gongmen City in ancient China the peacocks rule a peaceful and prosperous land and bring joy with their invention fireworks. But the heir to the throne Lord Shen (Gary Oldman) wants to use fireworks as a weapon to conquer China. A soothsayer (Michelle Yeoh) warns that Shen will be defended by a "black-and-white" warrior and he leads his army commit genocide (you know for kids) against the panda village. Yet one baby panda survives.Po (Jack Black) continues as the Dragon Warrior and protects the Valley of Peace from bandits and pirates with the Furious Fives. But Shen returns to Gongmen City with a new weapon that can defend kung fu. As Po and co set out to stop the most powerful peacock imaginable Po stars to have memories of his past and wants to know what happened to him.Kung Fu Panda 2 continues what works in the original film, excellent action sequences that are quick, fluid and easy to follow because of the camera movements which follows fights, lots of well done slapstick and visual gags and a few funny lines and clever plays. The story is a little darker then the original film but that is why it has a PG rating.The animation is wonderful as you would expect from a Dreamworks production. The CGI is detailed from the hair, to the Chinese buildings and everything you can think of. It is a fast and fluid and some of the creations were very creative, particularly Shen with his eyebrows, his metal claws and use of small knives. Baby Po was a very cute. As well as the CGI Kung Fu Panda 2 has two other styles of animation, a very well made old fashioned paper animation for the prologue giving the start a story book look like the first two Shrek films and still very creative and the other was using traditional 2D animation for the flashbacks which is fitting for the setting and it is great to see director Jennifer Yuh Nelson incorporates these different styles into an entertaining action film.The voice cast is solid as expect, the highlights being Black and Oldman. Black because of his earnest performance and being a natural comedian and Oldman because of his deadly sinister and serious delivery, making him a compelling, power-hungry villain.Some have stated that the sequel follows the formula of the first film. Whilst the need to find inter-peace is similar to first film and the heroes have to stop a big lethal bad guy Kung Fu Panda 2 is more of an adventure as the heroes are forced on a journey and liberate a city. It is different enough to be its own adventure and felt like it actually continued the story. Lets hope Dreamworks does not stuff up the third film like they did with Shrek the Third.Kung Fu Panda 2 is a very fun family film that is in keeping with its Chinese influences because of its art style and music and with the likes of How to Train Your Dragon shows what Dreamworks can do without the need to rely on pop-cultural references. It is a fast paced action film with plenty of jokes.A solid 4 out of 5.
When the first trailer of RED was released there was buzz and anticipation that going to be a fun action comedy. Loosely based on a graphic novel by Warren Ellis, RED delivers and shows that other action heroes still got it.Frank Moses (Bruce Willis), is a retired black-ops CIA agent who is struggling to adjust to civilian and spends his time telephone Sarah (Mary-Louise Parker), a woman who works for the pensions services. But Frank has been tags RED, Retired, Extremely Dangerous and a target for assassination. He goes on the run, going to Kansas City to protect Sarah and reuniting with his out team, Joe (Morgan Freeman), Marvin (John Malkovich) and Victoria (Helen Mirren). They set out to find out why the CIA want them dead, with a young, ambitious and talented agent William Cooper (Karl Urban) leading the hunt.RED is far from a perfect film, there are some holes, but it an entertaining film, providing action and comedy in equal measure. With a fun script director Robert Schwentke was able to give us visual comedy, but it is the verbal comedy and performers that is the real strength, with Parker and Malkovich delivering the most (how can anyone not love Mary-Louise Parker?). The first fight scene was a over-edited, but the rest of the action is well handled, like the scene in the cargo yard with explosive devices landing on people's heads. It would have been nice if the action was a little more violence but there are plenty of gun battles to satifity the audience. The basic plot is a Macguffin, an excuse for action sequences, there is still enough of focus and story was simple. Weirdly whilst RED is a comedy and light-hearted in it's approach with some holes (like how do Frank and Sarah travel across America so quickly), it is more believable then say a film like Salt, because there is a lack of technology, that the actions are resourceful and they is a simple focus.There is an excellent cast in the film. As mentioned Parker and Malkovich were stand out performers, with Parker being a excellent comic performer (and well, one hell of MILF), she has just has natural comic timing and believable. It was fun that Malkovich plays a paranoid man, playing his is follow and well, turns out to be right. One of the themes is that Willis and Parker play lonely characters who are looking for companionship and do it well, playing a convincing couple, with Willis being a little like his character in Twelve Monkeys early in the film. Willis is a convincing action hero and I do like to see older actors kick butt. Freeman is such a strong film present that he can read the phone book and give a great performer whilst there is nothing sexier then Helen Mirren with a large gun. One of the best feature in character development is making William Cooper out to be a man doing his job and that he has a nice home life with his young children; a man who thinks he is doing the right thing and someone is not evil or bad, he is a real shade of grey. Urban is a good actor and I hope to see more from him. But Richard Dreyfuss basically plays his character like he was Dick Cleney, and whilst I do enjoy a Cleney bashing, the character was one-dimensional and false, totally underdeveloped. And whilst I like Brain Cox, his gives a poor caricatures of a Russian man and a bad Russian accent; it would have been better to cast an Eastern European actor.But overall an fast paced adventure and a good way to spend two hours.
When a film starts out with a seventeen-year-old bloke seducing a twelve-year-old girl just because she's a virgin it clear that this film isn't going to be a light-hearted story.Kids focuses on two friends, Telly (Leo Fitzpatrick) and Casper (Justin Pierce), two seventeen-year-old skaters who seem unfocused in life. They take a lot of drugs, drink, steal and have sex with young girls. Telly only sleeps with virgins because he believes wouldn't get STD and just a lot better then someone who ready had sex. He deliberately seeks out young girls just so he can take their virginity, which shows he is a uncaring bastard and slightly pedophilic. The film focuses on one day in their lives in New York City. One of Telly's victims, 16-year-old Jennie (Chloe Sevigny) finds out she cause the HIV virus off Telly, the only bloke she had sex with. She searching the city to tell Telly that he has got the virus.This film tackles a lot of dark films from urban youth culture, sex, drugs, date rape, HIV and STDs. It shows how ruthless some blokes are to have sex. This film doesn't pull any punches. But at the same time the film seems aimless, just like its characters. As well the film two leads are completely unsympathetic, making you are not care or just wanting them to suffer. I think the film may have had a better impact focusing on Jennie who was a just girl who life is thrown into chaos or one of Telly's victims or a member of their crew who was having doubts about their activities. But then that's the way I would tackle it. The film takes a grim, realist approach, similar to British film-making which works for the storytelling. As well the young actors do well with a tough picture.If you look like this film I recommend watching Thriteen, Kidulthood and best of all A Clockwork Orange.I personally give Kids a 3 out 5.
Star Wars Episode I: The Phantom Menace was derided by fans of the original trilogy for a weakly plotted, childish tale that was George Lucas complaining about his tax bill. Because of this hopes for Star Wars Episode II: Attack of the Clones were low. Luckily Attack of the Clones was a big improvement, but still does not match the heights of the original trilogy.10 years after the events of The Phantom Menace many star systems are attempting to break away from the Republic, led by a former Jedi Knight Count Dooku (Christopher Lee). Because of these events the Senate debate on whether to create a new army. One of the key players is Senator Padme Amidala (Natalie Portman), who becomes the target of an assassination. The Jedi Knights are called into action. Obi-Wan Kenobi (Ewan McGregor) is assigned the mission to investigate the assassination attempt, whilst his young apprentice Anakin Skywalker (Hayden Christensen) is asked to act as Padme's bodyguard. Obi-Wan Kenobi quickly discovers a wider conspiracy involving a clone army already been made for the Republic and the hunt for a bounty hunter, Jango Fett (Temuera Morrison). On Naboo Anakin and Padme start to fall in love with each other, despite it is forbidden by the Jedi code. Anakin also suffers from dreams about his mother and on the planet Tatooine explores his dark side. With war edging closer all the Jedi Knights are called into action.There are a number of reasons why Attack of the Clones is better then The Phantom Menace. There is a better plot and much more of a drive in this film, the lead up to a war. There is a hell of a lot of action in the film which will entertain most people with good moments throughout. The humour is better then it was in The Phantom Menace, relying more on witty lines then slapstick. It's basically a fun summer blockbuster. But there are still problems with Attack of the Clones. Whilst the story overall is better, there is no explanation on what the separatists want to achieve or what their ideology was. The dialogue was weak (which has never been Lucas' strong suit.) The love story between Anakin and Padme was not very interesting and disengaging. The acting too was weak and wooden, particularly Hayden Christensen; it seemed like he was casted because of his looks. The film itself is too long when it should be a fast paced adventure and Lucas was too reliant on CGI when the first three films had a more physical feel because they did not have the option of CGI back then.Overall, an entertaining, but faulted film.
The new comedy Neighbors (or known as Bad Neighbours internationally) is a film that wants to be both a frat boy/party film and a gross out comedy with mostly successful results thanks to the direction of Nicholas Stoller and some inventive gags to help Neighbors stand out.Mac (Seth Rogen) and Kelly (Rose Byrne) are a married couple who have just had a baby and settling down to suburban monotony. Their worst nightmare happens when the Delta Psi Beta fraternity moves next door and their President, Teddy (Zac Efron) wants to join the legends of the brotherhood and create something that would go down as party history. Soon war breaks out between the family and the frat as Mac and Kelly look for any way to get rid of the fraternity. Yet the fight puts some spark in the couple's lives.Neighbors winning feature is the gross out gags and violent slapstick as both male and female characters have eye watering moments involving anything from the penis to the breasts. The humour is crass but it's done very well, providing many moments of belly laughs as Stoller has a no hold barred approach to the gags. The humour is not for everyone, but fans of films like American Pie and Ted will enjoy it.A fine cast of comic talent was assembled, Rogen, Byrne, Dave Franco and Efron with his emerging comedy abilities. Even actors of high calibre such as Lisa Kerchow, Christopher Mintz-Plasse and Ike Barinholtz are involved in minor roles. Though Rogen somehow gets another unobtainable woman he works well with Byrne and he plays on his man-child persona as someone who wants excitement in some form. Efron and Franco do make a good double act and have a bromance, using plenty of energy with their roles. Franco does something very rare for him, he plays someone we can sympathise with.Stoller adds plenty of visual flair to comedy, using video talk and filmed footage on cell phones appearing on the screen, different filming styles to reflect different periods and events and a unique looking party, mixing dark lighting and fluorescent colours to make it visually distinctive.The writers Andrew J. Cohen and Brenden O'Brien ensure a theme of growing up is prevalent as Mac and Kelly juggle parenthood and their responsibilities and their want for excitement that they use to have and not wanting the consequences of either. The frat too have these issues, Teddy wanting to go down as a party legend whilst Pete (Franco) sees the bigger picture beyond college life. This is a film that blends comic exaggeration of the conflict and pranks whilst acknowledging the wider world of responsibilities the characters have. This is not like 2012′s Project X which lived in a moral vacuum where nothing matters more then partying and popularity.The physical and gross humour is strong, the verbal humour is more hit and miss. A particularly bad example is when Teddy and Pete go through many rhyming variants of 'Bros before Hos': a joke that was not that funny to start with and outstays its welcome. Cohen and O'Brien do more work by create a very episodic script, tying different comic set pieces together as the warring parties try to 'one up' each other than they do in creating a cohesive story. Neighbors does also take the occasional dark turn which is very out of place, one moment especially being when Teddy threatens Mac and Kelly.Neighbors is a crude and lude comedy that will please fans of that type of humour. It pushes the rude humour to creative levels. Some of the jokes are misses but there are enough big laugh moments to make Neighbors a worthwhile experience for its demographic.Please visit www.entertainmentfuse.com
The story behind Argo is so extraordinary that it hard to believe and that it couldn't be made up. But it is history and after making two successful Boston set crime thrillers, Ben Affleck has stepped out his comfort zone to make a historic spy thriller.In 1979 the Iranian Shah has been overthrown by the Islamic Revolution and the American is the Great Satan for their support for the dictator. The American Embassy is under siege and on 4th November the Iranians overtake the embassy and hold the Americans hostage. But six Americans escape before the invasion and find sanctuary at the Canadian ambassador's (Victor Garber) home. In Washington D.C. the CIA and State Department have few options to get the Americans out: they cannot use the usual cover identity of journalists, charity workers and English teachers. One expert at extracting people, Tony Mendez (Affleck) comes up with an unconventional way of extraction, pretend the Americans are all part of an Canadian film crew on a location scout and goes to Hollywood to form a fake production company.Affleck has already shown himself to be a skilled director and Argo shows he is one of the best thriller directors around. Argo is different to his previous two films and Affleck was able to balance the tension and thrills with healthy amount of humour, satirising Hollywood and Washington. One of my favourite scenes that shows this is the fake film has a press conference intercut with the Americans in Iran watching an Iranian spokeswoman and Jimmy Carter making a speech. Alan Arkin supplied plenty of humour as the guff, old film producer, but it was never his expense. Bryan Cranston also has some fun lines. But for the most part the film is serious and the stakes as people's lives are on the line and there is every chance the Iranians can find. In the background the Iranians are reconstructing documents that can show who the missing Americans are and their counter intelligence operation is always on the go.Argo is filled with period detail and does an excellent job blending a realistic spy operation and how the CIA operates with a more outrageous operation. It makes an interesting counter to piece to the Bond and Bourne series and the very realistic Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy. This is a film that shows a CIA operation is all about the details, making sure there are no holes in cover stories, all the documentation is correct, etc. There is no gun play and the whole point is the CIA are trying to avoid any conformation, especially any situation could lead to a war.I am personally a history, politics and spy nut, so this film was always going to appeal to me. The spying preparations were interesting but some of the moments I really enjoyed was some of the discussions between the characters, particularly the Americans in Iran about what's happening: it felt very real and nature, like there people really living in the time period, not a screenplay benefiting from hindsight.Whilst the film is strong throughout the story does take a few liberties, namely making out Britain and New Zealand in Iran were useless when they were involved in the operation and nor showing Canadian Intelligence's part in the operation when in reality they must have been involved seeing it involved their ambassador. Also the final third of the film felt like everything that can go wrong will go wrong, building up the tension. But it all felt a bit too fault when so much bad stuff is happening, when the characters' nerves would have enough to build the tension.Argo is a very enjoyable adult film that is deserving of its steady box-office success. It should get a few Oscar nominations and it does entertain.
This movie is very enjoyable and done with a brain and a heart. I love how it was done thought a hand-held camera and that it only focuses on people on the ground-level and does not try to explain where the monster comes from. It is also a short film, just under an hour and a half, which is nice to see in an age when movies over 2 hours is becoming the norm.The basic plot of the film is Rob is having a surprise leaving party because he was about to leave for Japan. During this party there is a powercut and in the distance there is an explosion the head of the Statue of Liberty is blasted into the middle of Manhattan. The police and the army come out in full force and try to direct people out of Manhattan. However the Brooklyn Bridge is destroyed and Rob then gets a phone call from his 'girlfriend' and he decides to try and save her and do it before 6 AM.The film starts off slow, but that is because it meant to be like someones home movies. You also get see like bits of Rob's life a few weeks before the attack. The producer J.J. Abrams is a very clever man an know how to make a film and market it. It is scary and you do fill the panic. I also didn't like the bit (in a good way) when the monster attacks the helicopter need the end of the movie. This is because I don't like heights or flying.Cloverfield is a good movie and I think that it will work very well on DVD.
To anyone who knows anything about comic books, Watchmen is the best of them all. It is a multi-layered, dark read which tackles themes such as the Cold War, the dark side of human character and deconstruct the superhero mythos.Watchmen starts with the murder of Eddie Blake/the Comedian (Jeffrey Dean Morgan) in an excellent fight scene and has a four minute opening credit scene looking at the quick history of the world of Watchmen. The film is set in an alternative verison of 1985 where America is more powerful because they have the only real superhero, Doctor Manhattan, (Billy Crudup) who radically changed America's industry and military complexes. This is a world where superheroes did exist and have been outlawed by the American government. A world where America won in Vietnam, but also a world where America and the Soviet Union were edging towards war. Rorschach (Jackie Earle Haley) is the only superhero still working illegally and he investigates the Comedian's assassination. He believes that they is a masks killer, but he is also famous for being a paranoid conspiracy nut. However his suspicions are confirmed when Doctor Manhattan exiles himself because of claims he gave people he used to work with cancer and he himself has lost interest in humanity and then an assassination attempt on Adrian Veidt/Ozymandias (Matthew Goode). Rorschach himself gets arrested for murder and its left to Dan Dreiberg/Nite Owl II (Patrick Wilson) and Laurie Jupiter / Silk Spectre II (Malin Akerman) to stop the world from destroying itself.After a number of director being attached to the film, including Terry Gilliam who claimed the graphic novel was unfilmable, fan-boy Zack Sydner took the challenge. He has done challenges before, he made a good remake of Dawn of the Dead and the very entertaining 300. He wanted to make the film as loyal as possible to the book. He did have to cut some of the subplots, but the ending was changed and the focus of the film seemed to be on Doctor Manhattan rather then Rorschach. Even Rorschach's origins seemed to be skipped over, and that was my favourite chapter in the graphic novel. The actions scene sinces were done excellent, similar in style to 300, especially the fight scene in prison. There are also easter eggs for Watchmen fans. However the end of the film was changed and there were areas that were skipped over or changed a bit too much. As well some of the CGI was a bit too obvious.Jackie Earle Haley was perfect as Rorschach, getting the look and the voice right and he was the best actor in the film. Patrick Wilson was good as Nite Owl and Billy Crudup did well with the monotone Doctor Manhattan. I thought Matthew Goode wasn't so good, he had a strange lisp and he lacked the charisma that Ozymandias and Malin Akerman was the weakest performer in the film.The Daily Mail critic criticised the fact that the Comedian killed a pregnant woman and tried to rape the original Silk Spectre and that Rorschach killed a man for murdering a six-year-old girl. That is the whole point. There are not superheroes in the traditional scene, they are all faulted and some are not very nice people. Their political views range from a strange type of liberal to neo-conservative to fascist. The whole point is to de-construct the superhero mythos. The film is violence, sexual and you get a lot of blue willy action. It's is a strong 15/18 rated film.Watchmen is decent, but it does change a bit too much for Watchmen fans, and will be hard to appeal to non-fans. You should read the graphic novel first and maybe it might be worth waiting for the 3 and half hour director's cut.
Based on what was a considered an unfilmmable novel Cloud Atlas is a large, ambitious film that took both the Wachowskis and Tom Tykwer to adapt and direct. Cloud Atlas tells six different stories, set from the past to the distant future, all linked by universal themes of truth, justice, life and events from the past effect the future. The framing device is that all the characters are reading about the previous events, whether it's a diary, letters or a recording. A particular strong ideas was how the main character from the Seoul Dystopia is worshipped by a primate tribe as a God in a post-apocalyptic future. There are many links to the different time periods, from the cast, the music and small things like characters having birth marks, showing the contentions between the characters. The Wachowskis' theme of racism shows it head in their stories.Cloud Atlas is bold film, running for 2 hours 45 minutes and is visually stunning. The scenes of the various stories were perfectly edited together as different characters had to go through similar events. But some of the stories worked better then others and I personally thought the strongest stories were the 1973 nuclear thriller in San Francisco, the futuristic dystopia of Neo Seoul and the post-apocalyptical future. But the story starring Jim Broadbent as a man hiring in an old people's home felt out of place, being too humorous and just a mix of a Guy Ritchie gangster film and The One Flew the Cuckoo's Nest.
Flags of Our Fathers is a Second World War looking at the American during the Battle of Iwo Jima. It focused on the five soldiers who put up the famous flag after the capture of Mount Suribachi and how their were used by the American government during the propaganda war.The story was told in flashbacks, looking at the family of one of the soldiers in the modern day, before looking at the battle and the propaganda, avoiding telling it as a straight story. Before the film I thought that the flag was raised after the battle, but showed that it was raised on the fifth day of battle and that it wasn't the original flag.The battle itself was showed to be brutal and shot in a similar style to Saving Private Ryan (Steven Spielberg was a producer of the film). It also avoided judging either side and was balanced, a actual look at war, like A Bridge too Far and less like Braveheart. I also liked that it was a Second World War that looked at the war in the Pacific, which most films looked at the war in Europe.After the battle the situation on the American Domestic Front. The war was becoming more unpopular, the death court was raising, the war in Europe was already won and that the war was costing too much. The surviving soldiers who raised the flag were used by the government and their senior officers to help raise money for the war from the American tax payers. Their made public speeches and re-enacted the raising of the flag in the most tacky way possible. The soldiers become disillusioned, one refusing to take part and another becoming an alcoholic and suffered racism.The basic message of the film was that war was tough and brutal, that the government was willing to use the media and people to galvanic support. It also showed that the troops were used by their officers and government and could be seen as a hint against the Bush government and Iraq.I also liked the fact Flags of Our Fathers was countered balanced with Letters from Iwo Jima, which focused on the Japanese during the battle, and was done in the style of more traditional war film, personally I think its even better then Flags of Our Fathers. Both are worth watching.The acting was good in the film, but the key to Flags of Our Fathers was the writing from Paul Haggis and the direction of Clint Eastwood. This is a refreshing war film and I look forward to what else Eastwood and Haggis make. I also hope that more war-films are made to this kind of standard.
The true story of the rivalry between F1 drivers James Hunt and Niki Lauda and the 1976 Formula One season is one of those stories where true life is more extraordinary then fiction. Fortunately two men with great experience at adapting true life stories, Ron Howard and Peter Morgan, have taken this project on, giving us a movie that is about a clash of ideals and personalities as well as about the drive of motor sports.James Hunt (Chris Hemsworth) and Niki Lauda (Daniel Brühl) are racing drivers with different approaches and philosophies whose rivalry starts in Formula Three racing. Hunt is a good looking playboy who enjoys drinking, partying and sex and has charisma to boot. Lauda is a serious minded, extremely determined, technically astute and is able to get the most out of a car, but is a cold, distant man who drives people away. Soon the men's rivalry see them battling it out in Formula One leading to the 1976 season where back-stabbing, danger and disaster affects the sport.As a sports movie Rush is a very well made and entertaining film that focuses on its characters ideals and differences. Hemsworth and Brühl are in top form as they play these very different men. Lauda is a self- determined man who is willing to risk everything to get into F1, but easily rubs people the wrong way, whilst Hunt had a greater support network, media friendly but is a loose cannon. Both end up becoming each other's hubris as they take bigger risks in a sport that already dangerous.As well as the focus of their profession, Rush looks at the personal lifestyles of the two drivers, particularly Hunt's as he womanizes as Lauda settles down with a woman. Hunt is a thrill seeker who uses pure talent whilst Lauda is aware of the risks of his profession, but does not want to add to them.To anyone who knows about Niki Lauda is he suffers a tragedy and the easy route would have been to make Rocky style picture about someone overcoming adversity. Fortunately, Howard and Morgan made something more interesting by showing both men to be faulted, that Lauda is not a man who is easy to like, making personal digs against and being a very sore loser.At a running of two hours, three minutes, Rush moves along at a very brisk pace. The first 40 to 45 minutes focuses on a six year period as the rivalry builds up. Many story elements are dealt with quickly. A great example of this is when Hunt meets model Suzy Miller (Olivia Wilde, who does an impressive English accent) in the team garages and the next scene is them getting married. Rush is a movie that tackles many story elements with broad brushstrokes. It does seem like a longer cut may exist.Even though the film is called Rush, Howard and Morgan build up to the racing segments. We get a F3 race near the beginning and then we have a long wait the F1 races. Howard and Morgan focus on three main races in the 1976 season, Nürburgring, Germany, Monza, Italy and Fuji, Japan. Howard shows his technical acumen with the racing sequences, as we get up close to the action on screen with camera being place many on the parts of the cars, in the driving seat and even in the engine and in the air gun during a tyre change. There are intense, exciting sequences as Howard uses stylistic flashes and slo-mo as we see how dangerous races were in the 70s. Morgan also uses a similar montage trick he used in The Damned United to quickly build a picture of the '76 season with Howard using title cards to the sequence a bit of flash.The story about James Hunt or Niki Lauda could have made for a compelling movie on their own terms, but Howard and Morgan give us two films in one. Rush is a very well-made, engaging and compelling sports flick that is character driven and is about the build-up as well as the racing.Please visit www.entertainmentfuse.com
I did not like this film when I saw it. If it was meant to be a serious film it's plot was radicals, if it was a comedy it failed badly. The plot of the film was Buddy 'Aces' Israel was a magician who tried to play gangster and became involved with the Mafia. He then turned on the Mafia and became the FBI's top informant. As you can imagine the mafia weren't to happen and play a $1 Million hit on his head. This leads to many assassins trying to get to Aces and they end up fighting each other, the FBI and Aces' bodyguards. I feel the film didn't work on this concept and it just turned into a violence bloodbath. My friends who I went with to this film felt the same. It wasn't a well written and the film was poor. They were attempts to add poor twists to the film but again these didn't what and made the film look worst. The only good things I can say about this film was Alicia Keys was better then excepted and was a pretty good actress and I liked to seeing how badly Ben Affleck's career has gone by being killed off in the first 20 minutes.
Chinatown is easily recognised as a classic film, being one of Jack Nicholson and Roman Polanski's best films. This film came from a golden age of American age and can easily hold it's own against other classics from that period.Jake Gittes (Jack Nicholson) is a private investigator in 1930s Los Angeles in the middle of a drought. He is hired by Evelyn Mulwray (Diane Ladd) to follow her husband, the Chief Engineer of the city's Power and Water Department, who she suspects is having an affair. Gittes photographs with a young woman it gets leaked to the press. But the real Evelyn Mulwray (Faye Dunaway) shows up in Gittes' office, threatening to sue him. Soon Gittes is thrown into a big mystery when Mr. Mulwray is found dead and Gittes uncovers a web involving the water department, real estate deals, political corruption and a dirty family secret.Chinatown has a film noir visual, style and storytelling but does not suffer the restrictions that though films had to go through. Robert Towne was deserving of his Oscar win for Best Screenplay, delivering a complex story, real characters and combined with the acting and subtle direction makes for a very compelling thriller. Polanski keeps the film going at a fast pace and it also feels episodic because of the way the narrative shows how Gittes solves the mystery and uncovers clubs. It could have worked as a TV miniseries, but of course it is a great film anyway. This is a film that is allowed to be a more darker with it storytelling, the type of story it can tell (particularly with the twist) and be able to show more violence.The acting is excellent, Nicholson is great playing a sleazy anti-hero who has a charm about him, willing to use underhand methods but still at heart not evil, a man with some morals and just wants to get his job done. Dunaway starts off as a confidence woman, who personae is slowly eroded as more of her past is revealed, starting with her change of personality because of the mention of her father. John Huston has a real sense of menace every time of he was on screen.Chinatown is a glorious looking film, from the cars, to the art direction and to the costumes. The simple score by Jerry Goldsmith is able to soak you into the story and everything had the feel of film noir, but with the twist of being alike a 70s thriller. It is a perfect blend.Chinatown is an essential film, a well made thriller that should please fans of 70s cinema.
If you are a fan of noir style films, or period crime films like the Godfather, then you should like L.A. Confidential. Here is a smart, complex thriller set in 1950s Los Andreas, with compelling characters and fine director. One of the best crime films from the 90s.The focus of the film is one three main characters who are looking at three different cases. There is Ed Exley (Guy Pearce), an ambitious young officer who wants to be a detective, and has a strong moral view on justice. He gets his wise after the Bloody Christmas fiasco, and proves himself a hero cop after investigating a big murder case. But he starts to suspect things are not all right with the result. Ed's rival is Bud White (Russell Crowe), a violence cop who uses his punching and gun to beat confessions or information out of suspects. He ends up investigating two cases, on involving a massive move of heroin in the background of a organised crime leadership void. The other involves high end call girls which look like movie stars. Bud ends up getting involved with one of the call girls, Lynn Bracken (Kim Basinger). The third cop is Jack Vincennes (Kevin Spacey), a cop who works on the glamorous size of crime. He is a narcotics cop and a technical adviser for a TV show. He works closely with Sid Hudgens (Danny DeVito), the editor of the Hush Hush maginize. They trade information, so that Jack can make good busts, and Sid could have good stories. Jack ends up being transfered to Vice, and ends up investigating the call girls. Pictures of the call girls with Johns are being used to blackmail people like city officials. Jack also ends up working closely with Ed Exley.The script by Brian Helgeland and Curtis Hanson is excellent. They make a very complex film with strong characters who have different motivations in the backdrop of an interesting setting. They are a lot of links in the film which puts the whole thing together. They are a number of themes throughout the film, organised crime, prostitution, racism, police brutality, tabloid journalism and legal ethics. It gives you a lot to think about.As a director Curtis Hanson's career has been so-so. But L.A. Confidential shows that he has the potential to do great things. He handling of the material is excellent, he is a fan of the original novel, made excellent casting choices, keeps the film well paced and leaves no loose ends. He gets a real feel for the time and balances out both the glamour and the sleaze of the period and the city. Los Andreas itself acts as a fantasising world in itself. I also like the fact he makes out that racism was not just an issue in the Deep South and this was a period just before the Civil Rights movement started. Black people were easy targets and racism still affects America today.There is a great cast. Russell Crowe, Guy Pearce and Kevin Spacey are all great actors and all performed well. There is a good supporting with Danny DeVito (in his best role), James Cromwell and Ron Rifkin. All were on the top of their game, and must have had faith in the material. Russell Crowe's character was very true to what he is like in real life.It's a shame that Titanic swept the Oscars because L.A. Confidential was a much better film.
Charlie's Angels is one hell of a franchise. It started off as a bad television show in the 1970. Drew Barrymore brought the rights to the show for her Flower Films production company, as a pet project for her and hired McG (most stupid name ever!) because she liked his promos, music videos and adverts. The first Charlie's Angels film was by no means a cinematic classic but it has some enjoyable action scenes and made a big profit at the box office. A sequel was inevitable and had a number of writers involved, including the pretty good John August to Simon Kinberg, one of the worst writers in Hollywood.The plot, what there is of it, is two titanium rings with everyone on the US Witness Protection programme's details on them have been stolen and placed on auction for the highest bidder. The Angels, have been asked by the US Marshalls to find them and bring them back. On the way they have fight a lot of people including the Thin Man (Crispin Glover), Dylan's (Drew Barrymore) ex Irish boyfriend Seamus O'Grady (Justin Theroux) and ex-angel Madison Lee (Demi Moore). Within the film they are sub-plots, like Alex's (Lucy Liu) dad (John Cleese) visiting and having to relieve that she is really a crime-fighter, not a neuro-surgeon. Natalie (Cameron Diaz) moves in with her boyfriend. And Dylan relieves she is one the Witness Protection list and worries about the break up Angels.I have nothing wrong with films just setting themselves out to be fun, but they is still a basis requirement of being coherent. The script and the direction lack both. They is barely a plot; the film makes fun of Mission: Impossible II, but even that is a better film then this. McG's inexperience as a storyteller shows. He's background as a music video director shows, because just focuses on stylist set pieces and can't tell a story. Charlie's Angels is a collection of bits, from the almost James Bond style pre-credit scene, to the fight with the Irish guys to the Cape Fear reference. The film at times tries to be like a Bond and Mission Impossible film but fails. Throughout the film the girls dress up in a number of disguises, but that wears thin really quickly. Some bits are embarrassing. The humour is flat and unfunny and they are stupid motions like when the Angels are dancing in Natalie's new house. There are some decent fight scenes, but that is not enough and there is better out there.The film has female protagonists, major women action heroes. I have no problem with that, hell, I want to see more of that. But in this film there are sexist bits, like when Lucy Liu and Drew Barrymore dressing up as sexy dancers.Most of the acting is weak, but this isn't an actors film. Bosley is changed from a skinny white guy, Bill Murray, to a big black guy, Bernie Mac. I like consistency in a film series.Compare Charlie's Angel 2 to other action films that have been released around the same time. X-Men 1 and 2, the first two Bourne films, the first two Spider-man films. Audience want films with substance, with skilled, experienced story tellers at helm.McG needs to grow up, and Simon Kinberg, the writer of films like XXX 2, X-Men 3 and Jumper needs to quit the film industry.
I personally love this film. The plot is simple but raises a number of moral issues, such as could someone kill their best friends and people they would have known they whole life.Japan had fallen into an economic crisis in the near future which resulted in mass unemployment and the schoolchildren become violence and uncontrollable and boycotting school. The Japan government take dramatic action and create the Battle Royale Act which resulted in one class being picked every year to battle each other to the death. The students all react in different ways, some accept the challenge and go on and kill they follow classmates, some kill themselves, others try to co-operate and break out of the Battle Royale and some just continue life as nothing happened. As the title of the review suggest this film has A Clockwork Orange feel to it, showing a dyspotic society and how horrible life could be. It shows the government loosing control of Japan's youth and the drastic action they take. The film is well acted, which a young cast, and a brilliant plot. It was very violence as expected with some fun ways of killing people. It also has some humour in it. I admit the ending is a little strangle, but it is still an excellent film.In my opinion Japanese and Korean cinema is some of the best in the world. They have good ideas and then to go for stories and themes that Hollywood films wouldn't touch.I know that Battle Royale isn't to everyone taste, but most people I know tend to like this film.
The original Transporter film was a modest success and lead to Jason Statham joining a new generation of action stars. A sequel was commissioned and we ended up getting something a lot louder and dumber.Frank Martin (Statham) has moved to Miami becoming a chauffeur for a wealthy family's young son, Jack Billing (Hunter Clary). The husband, Jefferson (Matthew Modine) and wife Audrey (Amber Valletta), have marital problems, leading to Frank being very protective of the boy. But Jack becomes the target for Gianni (Alessandro Gassman), a mercenary who wants to kidnap the boy, forcing Frank into action.The first Transporter film was basically a simple B-Movie with an MTV style to it: the sequel has become an over blown exploitation film. Whilst it cannot be argued that The Transporter was a grounded, realistic affair, there was still some basis in reality: the sequel is a comely overblown actioner that is more comic, treats physics with contempt and goes into the realms of sci-fi. The only real improvements are some of the fight scenes are a little clearer due to less use of quick cut editing and Statham drops the American accent.Transporter 2 is a much more ridiculous sequel with its action sequences and plotting and it almost feels like the film was made by people who have not even seen the first one: but it was directed by Louis Leterrier who was the artistic director of the first film and Luc Besson and Robert Mark Kamen stay on as the writers. The action sequences are solid for the most part, being well shot and choreographed affairs. But there is too much CGI in some of the driving sequences and the complex.The change in director is very noticeable: Leterrier uses a brighter colour pallet, having a much more stylized approach and tonally more lighter and comic. Leterrier had a fondness for using flashy pans of the Miami, had much more of a willingness to use CGI and slo-mo and had moments of attempting Matrix style bullet affairs. This is a film that wants to be as ridiculous as possible and there is a much more exploitative nature to the film with the main henchman being a biniki clad woman who looks like she is a stripper. This was Leterrier's directional debut and he went on to make The Incredible Hulk and Never You See Me, but this film was a weak start to his career.Transporter 2 has a fine cast but most of them are wasted. Statham is of course solid as the lead, Frank Martin was the character that made his career, and he shows off his action chops once again: but his character has become much more super human in this sequel. Modine and Keith David were under used, particularly David who had a small role as a US Marshall and the film does not use his screen presence or his distinctive voice. François Berléand from the first film has been reduced to no then comic relief and his appearance in the sequel was just so the two Transporter films were tied together. The only improvement was Gassman as the villain who at least had some menace to him and felt like a villain compared to Matt Schulze in the first film.Whilst The Transporter was never a cinematic masterpiece it did at least seem to treats its audience will a little respect: the sequel is a loud, idiotic and obnoxious follow-up and does not ever belong in the same universe. It is overly comic, overly stylised nonsense that has some good fights to save it. Plus the use of a Jamaican taxi driver was a pretty racist characterchure.
Dogma is one of Kevin Smith's most controversial films, a smartly written comedy that takes jabs against the Catholic Church and religion in general and it is very much a cult classic which my friends from college raved about.Bethany (Linda Fiorentino) is a catholic woman who works in an abortion clinic who is given a mission from Metatron (Alan Rickman), the Voice of God, to go church in New Jersey. She has to stop two fallen angels, Loki (Matt Damon) and Bartleby (Ben Affleck) who have found a loophole that they can re-enter Heaven: but if they do that they would destroy all of existence because God's word is meant to be infallible. Fortunately (or unfortunately) Bethany is joined by Jay and Silent Bob (Jason Mewes and Kevin Smith), the thirteenth apostle, Rufus (Chris Rock) as Loki goes on a killing spread and a demon called Azreal (Jason Lee) tries to make Loki and Bartleby success in their objective.Dogma is a sharply written comedy that is constantly funny. Smith makes a dialogue driven comedy filled with comical exchanges and great character inactions. Smith's trademarks of film related dialogue and jokes at the expense of Jay, but the best parts is the satire of religion and his showcasing of knowledge of Catholicism, combined with clever lines about the religion.Sometimes Smith does stand on his soapbox about religion, but for the most part the satirical jabs are one target. We get satire from all angles from a Cardinal trying to get the church to appeal to younger worshipper, by doing it in the most patronising way, including a 'hey Jesus' and comic book art for its title 'Catholicism Wow'. There are criticisms about how The Bible has be rewritten to suit certain groups, with the Bible being whitewashed (though ignoring that Jesus and the apostles would have mostly have been of Middle-Eastern appearance) and women having villainous roles.Affleck and Damon were great together as the fallen angels, having great dialogue and discussions, particularly in the beginning and a scene in a boardroom for a children's character. Alan Rickman was also a comedy highlight, playing against type as the Voice of God, someone who has great lines and adds serious emotion depth when needed. He added gravitas and gave the role his all.Kevin Smith has often stated that he thinks he is not a particular good director, but with Dogma he is able to keep a fast pace, he knows how to shoot the dialogue sequences and can add a scene of tension when needed (i.e. the boardroom scene). Smith is competent with the action sequence at the end and he knows how to use his bloodpacks. The general look and tone of the film where Reaper (which Smith directed the pilot) got its influences from.The film does occasional take a misstep, such as Smith being at time very preachy and there is a demon made from faecal matter which was very immature and out of place for a smartly written film.On a final note, Howard Shore of the Lord of the Rings fame provided the score for Dogma and much his other work he gives Dogma a top score. He uses plenty of choir beats and singers to add to the experience.Dogma is a highly enjoyable comedy that is intelligently written and very funny. It is a film deserving of its cult classic status.
When Salt was first commissioned it was seen as a project for Tom Cruise but he rejected it seeing it as being too similar to the Mission Impossible Series. But Angelina Jolie heard about the project she saw it chance to start a female spy franchise.Jolie plays Evelyn Salt, a CIA officer plays on moving out of field work for the sake of her marriage. Yet her plans are destroyed when a Russian defector, Vassily Orlov (Daniel Olbrychski) accuses her of being a Russian Sleeper agent assigned to kill the Russian President. He claims Salt has been trained to since she was a child. With Counter-Intelligence Peabody (Chiwetel Ejiofor) and her boss Ted Winter (Liev Schreiber) wanting her for questioning Salt has to go on the run and raises the question: who is Salt? 2010's summer season has been pretty lacklustre, with only Inception and Toy Story 3 truly impressing and Iron Man 2 being entertaining. Salt is more like The A-Team, its decent but nothing special. It is however better then Knight and Day. Jolie is convincing is a top spy, showing she can really kick ass. I love that she was a very resource character and a little like Sydney Bristow from Alias. SPOILER ALERT: However despite the flashbacks there is no reason given to why Salt turned against her Russian masters SPOILER ALERT OVER. She is ably supported by Schreiber and Ejiofor, both very good actors but they do offer a standard performance, with Schreiber fairly a little better. There are far from bad but there had little to work on.The director of the piece was Philip Noyce, an old fashion style director who has form for spy thrillers in the form of the best two Tom Clancy adaptations and The Saint. He can direct an action scene and it was refreshing for the most part that he only uses CGI when he has to. Jolie looks great when she is fighting, even if there a little over edited. He also keeps the film at a first pace, allowing the film to be pretty entertaining. But many of the action sequence didn't feel as a consequence or real as the new Bond films or the Bourne series, which gave though two series there edge.Kurt Wimmer did write some interesting ideas involving Russian sleepers which was very timely considering events on the East Coast of America in 2010. There was a decent element idea of a rogue ex-KGB agent awaking sleepers for his own reasons, but other elements were bit over the top and ridiculous. Luckily Noyce doesn't slow down to allow us to think about them for too long. Yet they could and should have been tighter and the way the film ends make a sequel very difficult to work. I was also able to guess the big plot twist very early on.Overall a decent enough action film but there is no need for a sequel.
In recent years there has been an explosion of found footage films thanks to the success of films like Cloverfield and Paranormal Activity and the growth of digital technology. Found footage films are cheap and often turn a profit, regardless of quality. Fortunately Chronicle is a very well made, interesting take on the idea of people developing superpowers.Andrew (Dane DeHaan) is a high school student in Seattle with an abusive dad and dying mum. At school he is bullied and considered weird and creep. His only friend his is cousin Matt (Alex Russell). When at a party Matt and the popular student Steve (Michael B. Jordan) find a strange hole they ask Andrew to film it and the trio end up developing telekinetic powers. They slowly develop their powers with Andrew being the strongest. But years of resentment and pain builds up in Andrew and his dark side develops.Chronicle had an organic progression as the relationship between the young men's relationship grows as their test their powers to the deterioration when Andrew's emotions get the better of him. The relationship is natural with Steve being made out to be a likable guy who actually wants to help Andrew and it feels believable that these three different lads who become friends.DeHaan is particularly strong as Andrew as the character is finally has friends, finally has power before turning into a psychopath. Even if Chronicle was not a sci-fi film it could have easily have about a story about a alienated young man who wants to take out his revenge against a world who always hated him. A rewrite could have turned the film into someone who plans and carries out a high school massacre.Chronicle is a first time film for director Josh Trank and writer Max Landis and they do portray a slightly take of the superhero genre as the characters test out their powers, play jokes, having to make up rules after they go too far and Andrew's moralising of his actions. The high school setting also felt really believable compared to other portrayals of high school.The found footage style worked for Chronicle as the story was engaging and Trank was able to play with the camera because of the telekinetic powers. As the film progresses Trank uses more cameras like security cameras and he gets some great shots and adds to the atmosphere. A particular shot I really like was the camera was stationery and we see a flight between Andrew and his dad which reminded me of fight scene in Unbreakable. Chronicle is a solid sci-fi drama, but it is the final third where Andrew becomes aggressive and insane and takes a darker turn. It was helped by DeHaan's intense performance. The final act was a great action battle between two superpowered teens in Seattle. It is even more impressive considering the low budget Chronicle had. At 81 minutes, Chronicle does cover a lot of territory in its short running time, and not just about superpowers, but also about high school life, the effects of domestic abuse and how would people act if they had some sort of power. It is easy to compare Chronicle to Unbreakable, a film about someone developing superpowers and Stephen King's Carrie, a teenager who is bullied who develops telekinetic powers and also goes crazy when humiliated. But if you are going to take ideas from other material, at least take from good material.8.5/10
Chinese cinema at the moment have focused on epic, films set in the past and have become big business, not just in China, but around the world. Chinese cinema has more money in it now, getting bigger stars and having more money for special effects. It is getting better all the time, and challenging their Asian neighbours, Japan, South Korea and Hong Kong.The Warlords is set in middle of 19th Century. China is in the middle of the Civil War between the Imperial forces and the Taiping Rebels. The film tells the story of three blood brothers, Pang Qing-Yun (Jet Li), Zhao Er-Hu (Andy Lau) and Jiang Wu-Yang (Takeshi Kaneshiro), who end up forming an army for the Imperial Chinese government. Qing-Yun was a proved general but he was the only survivor of his army after his so-called ally refused to help in a battle. He forms a partnership with the two brothers, Er-Hu and Wu-Yan who are bandits and convinces them to fight for the imperial government. Their army proves to be successful on the battlefield, and Qing-Yun passes on his military philosophies. But the brothers have to content with military politics with a Imperial government that does not like them, and their relationship soars.The film is directed by Peter Chan Ho-Sun, a man who made his reputation as second-unit director, working on films like Hero and House of Flying Daggers. Here he steps up to the director's chair, doing a good job. He plays to his strengths, which is action. The film has strong battle scenes and some kung-fu fights. But as well as action, Chan also focus on the characters, the emotion and politics of the war. The film focuses on political conflicts and the emotional and philosophical divide between Qing-Yun and Er-Hu. Chan knows what he is doing and was not out of his depth.They is a strong cast, with three of China's biggest actors in film. Jet Li is famous for his skills as a material artist, rather then as an actor, but in this film he proves his acting talents with this film. He is a strong actor in this film, doing more then just material arts. Jet Li also give his character depth, mixing both good and evil elements to him. Andy Lau and Takeshi Kaneshiro are more established as actors, but also not so well known in the West. Both are good in this film and work well with Jet Li.If you like action films and epics you will enjoy this film. However a little criticism is with the script where it makes out that the rebels properly were the better side to join. But I did enjoy the mix picture it set out instead of a black-and-white world in the rubbish Braveheart. The film is also lacking a real female lead and doesn't play on the love triangle it sets up early in the film. The film does have strong elements involving action, but also about military politics and battlefield ethics.Solid entertainment.
One Flew over the Cuckoo's Nest is a fantastic film, worthy of the awards that it once and Jack Nicholson's best film. It is a deep film that looks at a number of issues, especially mental health and mental care.The film focuses on Randell (Nicholson), a petty criminal who was in prison for statutory rape and fakes mental illness to what he thinks would be an easy ride in a mental hospital. It is there where he mets the regime of Nurse Ratched (Louise Flecther), who whilst seems nice and fair, runs the ward with an iron fist. Randell also meets up and befriends a number of the patients, who despite saying they are in the hospital by there own free will, are really just institutionalised. Randell decides that he needs to rebel against the system and use the other patients to help him.This film won all the big five in 1975 and it was the best film that year. I believe that Nicholson and Flecther were the most deserving out of all the Oscars it got. I said it looks into issues of mental health, rebellion (and the ways it can be conducted), failing institutions and tyranny and control. This film could also be seen to be influenced by ideas in sociology and that mental illness is just a label on people, and is made out to be more then what it really is.This film is a must see, 10 out of 10.
Batman and Robin is one of the worst superhero films ever made. It is a great example of studio interference gone mad, and betraying the source material. Batman is anything but a little hearted camp character and the sixties TV show has a lot to answer. The studio thought that Batman was a family friendly character and looked to make money from all the toy sells afterwards. The only good think about this film is that it ended the Burton/Schumacher era and brought about Christopher Nolan who made the excellent Batman Begins and the Dark Knight.The plot is thin. The film starts with Batman (George Clooney) and Robin (Chris O'Donnell) stopping a robbery at the Gotham National History Museum by Mr. Freeze (Arnold Schwarzenegger). The dynmatic duo stop him, but the super villain escapes. This starts to cause a rift between Batman and Robin. At the time in South America Dr. Pamela Isley (Uma Thurman), a botanist and environmentalist discoveries that her boss had been secretly making a brainless beast with superstrength, Bane. During the clash between the scientists an accident happens and Pamela becomes Posion Ivy. She goes to Gotham City with Bane and becomes an extreme environmentalist, making a proposal to Bruce Wayne to save the environment, but kill millions of people. Posion Ivy and Freeze team up to take over Gotham. A subplot of the film is Bruce's loyal butler Alfred had become ill. His niece Barbara (Alicia Silverstone), comes to take care of him. She clashes with Bruce because she believes that the billionaire never let Alfred live his own life. However, she is a trained fighter and ends up becoming Batgirl.There are a number of problems with this film. It is too campy, the kind of Batman which an comic book fan hates. It is gadget heavy, the executives at Warner Brothers had ideas for the toy lines, and it just made things too convenient. Casting Arnold Schwarzenegger and giving him top-billing was terrible decision. Schwarzenegger is not a good actor; he was best in the first two Terminator films and Predator. Uma Thurman must have been embarrassed by her performance in this film, no one stood out for have a good performance. The writing is not good, there were some awful cheesy lines, like 'ice to you see' (which was taken from the Simpsons) and 'you're not sending me back to the cooler'. The Batman comics were not even looked at and the Sixties show was base for this bad film. Like with all the Batman films before Nolan, the plot was thin, but Batman and Robin takes it to new levels and the filmmakers may as well have not bothered. Nolan was able to make Batman into a dark complex character, dealing with ideas and were brilliantly written. Even the people who made Batman and Robin have disowned it. George Clooney said he will refuse money if anyone comes up to him and said their paid to see Batman and Robin, Chris O'Donnell said it was like making a long toy ad and Joel Schumacher see this as his worst work and wanted to make a Batman film to please the fans, taking the character back to his dark roots. The screenwriter Akiva Goldsman was also ashamed of this film and has tried to make completely different films afterwards.Batman and Robin is a great example of when a studio becomes too involved with making the film. They did not care what happened as long as the film made money, but it ended up being a box-office flop. People will pay to see quality and that is why the action films that make the most money are also critically acclaimed. This ranges from superhero films like the X-Men, Spider-man and Nolan's Batman, to Casino Royale. Tom Rothman, president of Fox Movies wants to make the Wolverine film into a family-friendly film. If they go down that road then this is what would happen to it.
In 2008 Taken was a surprise hit and made Liam Neeson a surprising action hero with him ending up getting him many action gigs. Taken was a cheap to make, so a sequel made business sense, leading to Taken 2, a definition of a money grabbing sequel.A year after the events of Taken, an Albanian gangster/clan leader (Rade erbedija) wants revenge for the death of his son in Paris and sends out his operatives to find the man who did it. Bryan Mills (Neeson) has taken a bodyguard job in Istanbul, when his ex-wife, Lenny (Famke Janssen) and daughter, Kim (Maggie Grace) surprise him in the Turkish city. But this when the Albanians plan to strike, kidnapping Bryan and Lenny, forcing Bryan to guide Kim to save them.Taken 2 is hilarious and that is certainly not what the sequel was aiming for. It was also like the film was written to be a parody but directed to be deadly serious as this is a film that incredibly stupid. Some glorious moments include Bryan finding Kim with a GPS he put in her phone, Kim having to throw grenades off rooftops in a major city, Kim certainly becoming a skilled stunt driver and Kim and Bryan clashing through the American Embassy's entrance. We get the bad guy doing something so dumb that it may as well be a parody because they capture the highly trained Bryan and leave him alone in a locked room alone so they can watch a football match. Kill him, you have won, or if you want to torture him, break his arms and legs so he can't escape.Olivier Megaton takes over the directing duties from Pierre Morel. His career has been lacklustre despite his awesome name. Taken 2 was rated PG-13 in North America when the first was R-rated. It was a neutered experience with the violence cut and Megaton was not an interesting action director. Most the action is bland, with him relying on shaky cam and quick editing. Megaton certainly cannot shoot an fight scene if it involves more than two characters as you will get lost with what is happening and where people are. The car chase and rooftop chases are decent enough though and the final fight was eligible simply because it was two people fighting.This was clearly a paycheck film for most of the actors involved, with Neeson looking disinterested and Janssen was giving the thankless role of being kidnapped and tortured. erbedija also had a thankless role as the generic Eastern European villain and was wasted considering actually had a smart way to continue the story. But it was Grace who was the worst performer in the film; she is too old for to play a teenager and her delivery is awful, particularly when she is meant to be scared.In Taken both Albanians and the French were portrayed in a bad light. Istanbul at least does not look like a city of prevents and corruption, but this is hardly highlighting the city as it shown as a rundown, decaying city compared to the clean, orderly, modern world of Los Angeles. This is not aided that Istanbul was shot with a grey/green filter that makes the city look even worst.Taken 2 is a copy and paste sequel of the first film but given a twist that is more like a parody. It is a sequel that did not need to be made and if a third film is made (which is scarily likely) I would love to know what city and country is going to get insulted next. I would be highly surprised that Kim would even want to leave her bedroom after her experiences when she left American soil.
The Coen Brothers are great, making films that are dark and serious (e.g. Blood Simple, No Country for Old Men), comic (The Big Lebowski) and so that combine the two (Miller's Crossing and Fargo). Their remake of True Grit fits into the latter but their remake of The Ladykillers was reason to give some people concern. Luckily they know how to make a remake right this time.Mattie Ross (Hailee Steinfeld) is a 14-year-old girl whom father had been murdered by one of his hired hands, Tom Chaney (Josh Brolin). She plans to gain revenge and make sure that Chaney is tried and hung for his crime, so looks to hire a bounty hunter. She hires the most ruthless deputy Marshall she could find, Rooster Cogburn (Jeff Bridges), an elderly alcoholic. But a Texas Ranger, LaBoeuf (Matt Damon) also wants Chaney for a crime he committed in Texas, working both as an ally and a foe. They go into the Indian territories to find Chaney and avoid bandits in the area.The Coen Brothers set out to make a more gritty, Earthy type of Western and this approach has been used in many recent Westerns, Unforgiven, The Proposition, Deadwood, 3:10 to Yuma and The Assassination of Jesse James. The Coen Brothers made the violence realistic but did not linger on it, getting shot was nasty but they did need buckets of blood to show it. The focus of the film was on the characters and the journey they had to go on. For a mainstream audience it works as a simple revenge story but it is the focus on the Mattie character that truly makes True Grit an interesting film. There action is not the main focus of the film: for the most part it was kept at a distance. The world The Coen's shows is bloody, dirty and hard, this is not a glamour version of the Wild West and more historical accurate. There is also plenty of dark imaginary, with the use of a wintry landscape, the dirt road town and the characters' clothes added with a soft, piano based score.The acting is great in the film and Steinfeld is obvious talent for the future. Her performance had to hold the film because she was in nearly every scene. She should be nominated for Best Actress, not Supporting Actress. She made sure Mattie was a smart, quick witted character who was both funny and determined. She is a character who is still a young girl at the time. Bridges and Damon inject a lot of humour in the film and had excellent interplay with each other and with Steinfeld.The best way to describe True Grit is that story and the imaginary is dark and serious, but the characters are make sure that the film is not a dower experience.
The Day After Tomorrow is a guilty pleasure for me. I like a good action/disaster film, and this film appeals to my politics.The plot of film is that the ice caps start to melt rapidly and causes a lot environmental problems; twisters in Los Andreas, snow storms in Britain, deadly hailstorms in Japan and flooding New York. This all causes a new Ice Age and is based on the scientific theory that global warming could lead to a Ice Age. In the middle of this, the American government, lead by a Dick Cheney like Vice President, refuse to accept that global warming is a major problem and holds anti-environmentalist views. When the crisis starts he sees the error of his ways. In the middle of crisis is Jack Hall (Dennis Quaid) and his son Sam (Jake Gyllenhaal). Jack was a senior climatologist who came up with the theory that global warming could start a new ice-age, whilst his some was in New York as it flooded. Whilst most people in America help south to avoid the gathering ice storm, Jack heads north from Washington to find his son.Everyone knows that the science in this film is far-fetched. No-one can believe that a Ice Age can happen in two days and that even the worst case scenario, that it would take years for a Ice Age to develop. However, this film does raise an important issue, that Global Warming is one of the most major crisis in human history. The Day After Tomorrow does criticise the Bush presidency on his handling of the issue. It also has a good joke that Americans try to break into Mexico and that the American government have to write off Latin American debt to allow the Americans in. The special effects are good for a film like this, especially when New York gets flooded and with the snow storms, like in Britain. There is also a decent cast, having Quaid and Gyllehenaal, and others like Adrian Lester and Ian Holm. They all do there best in this film.However, there are some moments that are totally stupid, such as the wolfs from Central Park zoo surviving the flood and attacking living people when there are a lot died bodies around, or that a Russian ship with no crew somehow sailing into the middle of New York and near the library, without hitting a single building.But the Day After Tomorrow is enjoyable, especially if you are an environmentalist like me.
Pixar do not normally make sequels, with Toy Story being the only film that has had a sequel. Originally Disney very nearly made a direct-to-video sequel to Toy Story 2 after a bitter battle Pixar but luckily got to make it (reluctantly). They have now made one of the best film trilogies ever.Toy Story 3 is now set 10 years after the events of Toy Story 2: Andy (John Morris) is now 17, about to go to university and obviously not interested in playing with his toys anymore. Most of his toys are gone: only Woody (Tom Hanks), Buzz (Tim Allen), Jessie (Joan Cusack), Bulleye the horse, Mr. and Mrs. Potato Head (Don Rickles and Estelle Harris), Slink (Blake Clark), Rex (Wallace Shawn) and Hamm (John Ratzenberger) remind. After a misunderstand Andy's toys, along with Molly's Barbie (Jodi Benson) are donated to Sunnyside Daycare and meet a group of toys, including Lots-O'-Huggin' Bear, AKA Lotso (Ned Beatty) and Ken (Michael Keaton). At first it seems that Sunnyside is a paradise but it quickly turns out that there are really a prison, with Lotso as the dictator. The toys have to escape and get back to Andy, but it is going to be difficult, with Lotso running a police state.Pixar have a simple philosophy, story comes first. It sounds so basic but it can easily be lost in most studios only thinking about what's marketable. But Pixar have shown time and again that people are willing pay for quality. With Toy Story 3 it is a film with characters we already know and love, a simple drive, getting back to Andy. There is a brilliant script, with a simple story and setting, with the theme of what do your toys get up to when you are not around, toys running the risk of being abandonment and the idea of growing up and putting childish things behind them. We get to see all the characters as they despair over their situation and trying to escape from Sunnyside. It is a story about moving on as well, the wonders of childhood and we get to see move of Andy who is now a man. We get to see the imagination of a child, from what Andy would have show, to physical actions of Bonnie (Emily Hahn), a shy child with a big imagination. With a simple story the writers are able to fit a lot in.Because it's a family film there is a lot of physical humour, such as Buster the dog now being old, fat and lazy and not wanting to help Woody. But there are clever verbal jokes as well, like when Barbie arguing political theory and philosophy. Spanish Buzz is also a great comic creation. Because the characters and the story is so engaging that they do not need to rely on referencing after film scenes and any film references are much more subtle. Plus Ken is a great creation for Toy Story.Lee Unkrich directs a fast paced film, focusing on the characters and the story. There is action, drama, comedy and even a little horror, with the threat of big baby. Everything about this film was well handled and shows all the strengths of Pixar. Unkrich also shows that no toys is truly evil and that some event normally drives them to it. It also fun that established actors were like Timothy Dalton and Whoopi Goldberg were willing to voice very minor roles.The ending was fitting for the series and emotional for the characters and the audience. It is a perfect end and there is no way a sequel can be made without the series repeating itself. A perfect family film.
In 2007 a small, indie film from Ireland was able to dominate the critical world, and from a small budget made $20 Million worldwide. It was so successful in the critical world that it was in the top 10 best films of 2007 lists. It has a high rating of 97% on Rotten Tomatoes.Once is a love story between "Guy" (Glen Hansard), a busker on the streets of Dublin, and "Girl" (Markéta Irglová), a flower seller from the Czech Republic. The two have an instead connection when "Guy" plays his own songs and "Girl" asks him about them. They make beautiful music together and "Girl" encourages "Guy" to make a professional demo and move to London to re-connect with his ex-girlfriend. The two are drawn closer when performing music, but both have complex pasts.What must have made this film a success is it's quirky spirit, having a mix of drama and wit. It attempts to be the musical for people who do not like musicals. People do not just burst into song and the music has a folk/indie sound to it. The director John Carney keeps a low-key tone throughout. The pacing is slow and the feel is natural. The music comes out naturally and sounds like something good songwriters would write. Carney keeps characters down to a minimum, with the focus being on "Guy" and "Girl". He wanted to make it as a character pieces and the characters are fully drawn out. This is a down to earth film. Carney even makes Dublin a character in his film, showing that Dublin is a lovely historical city with a charming character to match many European cities. The song too are very memorable and people who like good singer-songwriters will enjoy them.The acting from the main two actors is very good. They are believable and both offer a low-key, organic performances. This is even more impressive because there are not professional actors, and Carney does get a lot out of them. They are professional singers and their ability shines through.Despites the positives involving the direction and the acting, the film itself was a hollow and felt like it was lacking a spark. They was not much of a drive in its story and made a film a little disengaging at times.But overall a worthy film with a charming character, but not everyone will like it.
Back to the Future is a film that for people of my generation would have growth up with, along with other important films like the original Indiana Jones films, Stars Wars trilogy, the first two Alien films, the Rocky Series and Mad Max 1 and 2 (just to name a few). Here is a fun family film that has stood the test of time.Marty McFly (Michael J. Fox), is a 17-year-old teenager living in Hill Valley, California. He has a loving family, a good girlfriend and helps a mad scientist, Dr. Emmett Brown (Christopher Lloyd). But he lives in a geeky family, his dad George (Crispin Glover) is bullied by his supervisor and avoids confrontation, his mum Lorraine (Lea Thompson) has conservative values and doesn't like Marty's relationship with Jennifer (Claudia Wells), and Marty's brother and sister are generally geeky. One Dr. Brown, aka 'Doc', asks for Marty's assistance and records the experiments with his next invention, a time machine (in the design of a DeLorean DMC-12). The test seems successful until Libyan terrorists kill 'Doc' and whilst on the run Marty ends up travelling back in to 1955. Whilst in 1955 Marty meets both his mum and dad as teenagers, and interferes with how they met. By doing this he messes up the time-space continuum and risks his own existences. The younger version of Lorraine falls for Marty, not know he is her future son; adding both to comedy and general creepiness. It's a race against time, both to get back to 1985 and to insure destiny is fulfilled by his setting up his parents.Back to the Future is a family sci-fi comedy which is a symbol of its time. It works as a fish out of water comedy, teen comedy and a general look at time travel. They is a simple plot and theme about Marty finding out who his parents are and looks at the similarities and differences of live in the 50s and 80s. The aim of the filmmakers was to make a fun film, and Robert Zemeckis does this. He is a protégé of Steven Spielberg and he keeps the story simple and entertaining. He also shows his skills as a special effects director which in this film were very good. The special effects help the story, but don't overshadow it. They is a very good script to this film, mixing drama and comedy, and hasn't dated badly. The film is humorous and light-hearted. The humour is not crude, like it it in some family films. There is a strong story and with good messages for kids about standing up to bullies and respecting your parents. Michael J. Fox was perfectly casted for the lead role and there are many excellent supporting cast members. Lea Thompson was perfectly pretty as Lorraine and Crispin Glover was fine as a needy kid. Christopher Lloyd and Thomas F. Wilson were really excellent as the mentor and the villain.Back to the Future is an influential family film. It is a mark of pop-culture with this movie being parodied in Family Guy and Futurama. It is Robert Zemeckis' best film (though Who Framed Roger Rabbit is a close second).
The remake of the 1966 comedy caper Gambit was a film 15 years in the making. It was marketed heavily on the name of The Coen Brothers who provided the script but Gambit is the weakest film of theirs which I have seen.Harry Deane (Colin Firth) is a art curator who an arrogant, rich and malevolent media tycoon, Lord Lionel Shabandar (Alan Rickman) who is a major art collector. Upset with his years of mistreat, Harry attempts to use Lionel's craving for Monet's lost Haystacks at Dusk, having the help of a talented art forger (Tom Courtenay) and a sassy Texan (Cameron Diaz) who has a link to real painting.Gambit is very board comedy; it uses many clichés and plays it very safe. Gambit relies on board stereotypes of different nationalities, uses some crude humour involving a fart and vomiting and giving Firth a Johnny English character, someone who thinks he is much better then he really is. There are repeat jokes and running gags as the film strains for a laugh, as Harry gets punched in the face, the constant embarrassment Harry suffers and the many misunderstanding involving Harry's sexual prowess in the Savoy Hotel. There are some mildly assuming moments, but they are too few and far between and there are not enough to substance a comedy.The cast was wasted and in the cast of Stanley Tucci gives an embarrassing performance as a Euro-Trash stereotype: it was cringe worthy with what he had to do from someone who is so talented. Rickman has made a career as a villain for hire and even he felt like he was just mugging and forcing his performance. Diaz was the strongest performance, even if she was playing a clichéd Texan who keeps quoting her mother, but least she is a strong, confidence woman with street smarts, it makes you wonder why she is working in a chicken factory? Harry as a characters should have been written that he is suave and an excellent planner, but goes to pieces when things go wrong, or that he is too arrogant to think anything could go wrong.Gambit has a very old fashioned, starting with an animated credit sequence, very much like the Pink Panther, but nowhere need as good, to the fantasy heist with editing copying the Oceans films to the score which was reminiscence of classic crime capers. But it was all old hat and Gambit felt like it should have been made another time. The biggest offence is the stereotypes of characters, we live in a digital, multimedia age and people know what people in other country are like. It was a bit embarrassing with two British characters in Texas talking in a stupidly posh way to a local, all Texans dress in cowboy gear, etc Admittedly it was fun to see Courtenay, a 75-year-old man kicking ass in a bar and it is not a complete disaster of a film. There are some decent moments, but it is still very weak and the worst Coen Brothers film I have seen. If you want to watch a good comic film about art theft then go for Headhunters.
Paul Haggis is one of the most talented writers in Hollywood, having made films like Million Dollar Baby, Crash, Letters from Iwo Jima and the new Bond films. His latest film is a remake of the French film, Anything for Her with an all-star cast.John Brennan (Russell Crowe) is a typical family man and an English lecturer whom world is turned upside-down after his wife is a sentence for murder for 20-years. After all routes of appeal are exhorted his wife Lara (Elizabeth Banks) attempts to commit suicide. Knowing his wife can not survive in prison John plans her escape from prison and to a foreign country. He does everything he can think of, including buying fake documents, photographing the prison to find any weak links, sell his house and research every technique he needs to help his wife. But he has to explore his own dark side to achieve it.Haggis is an excellent writer because his stories and characters are all thought out. He attempts to make his films realistic and one of the aspects I liked about is how John sets about planning the escape plan: from asking drug dealers for ID papers and researching youtube videos. The main two characters are well rounded and developed, particularly Crowe who is in very man mode: he is a character who turns from a ordinary man who wanted to do things through the system who turns into a criminal. The cops are the main antagonists, but they are just made out to be ordinary cops just doing their jobs, not corrupt or evil people. There are some really unlikely events like when a man goes to John's house and offers to make him documents (who is deaf for no real reason), and has contradictory intelligence (sometimes smart, sometimes dumb). An problem is how John can act so calmly with the police on his back, know exactly what they would do and coming up with ways to avoid them: much of it relies on luck. Some of the pacing is a little slow and about 10 to 15 minutes could have been cut. But these problems are not disastrous and Haggis does deliver a fun thriller.The acting in the film is good. As already mention Crowe give a good performance (his American accent is better then his English one). He worked well with Banks and she gave a strong performance. It is made even better because she is know for being a comic actress and she shows she has other acting skills. Hopefully she will get to get to test her range even more. Most of the supporting did a decent job, but the did not have much to do. Liam Neeson was in the film but his role is just a cameo, feeling like he thought he had a couple of days free and that the role was easy money.On a final note, Danny Elfman gives the film an intense score which really added to the tension within the film.7.5 out of 10.
We all know Peter Jackson as the man who directed the Lord of the Rings Trilogy: but his early days as a director of horror-comedies. His 1994 drama Heavenly Creatures, based on a real-life murder, was his first step away from that genre and show what else he was capable of.In 1952 Pauline (Melanie Lynskey) is a social outsider who does not get on well with her peers at her school in Christchuch, New Zealand. But at the start of the new term she befriends a new student, English girl Juliet Hulme (Kate Winslet). Both had childhood illnesses and they bond through their imagination, their creation of a fantasy world and have a love of music, particularly Mario Lanza. But their friendship slowly turns to obsession with each other, becoming extremely close, they find it hard to separate fantasy from reality and their fantasies become more and more violent. Mixed with their personal troubles their parents try to separate them, resulting with them planning a murder.Heavenly Creatures is a wonderfully made film and it was very Kubrickian in its approach. The lighting and use of shadows, colours and camera movement made the film look very much like Stanley Kubrick film and this was the type of story that would interested the man. The use of narrator also felt very similar to how Kubrick would let us know the thoughts of our main character. This film does have a great feeling of being like A Clockwork Orange, Lolita and The Shining, even though they are different films. We got the suburban setting of Lolita, the out of control youths from A Clockwork Orange and the theme of insanity and fantasy from The Shinning.On the wider front of Jackson's direction it was faultless. The pacing was perfect (I watched the 95 minute cut), the special effects were great for the time (this was Weta's first film) and it blended well with the film. Despite the low budget the special effects worked well and shifted between light and upbeat to dark and creepy. There are excellent camera moments and editing trick to shift us from the world of reality to fantasy and it was fitting for the situation as the girls were loosing their minds or using their imagination to enact violence fantasies.There are a lot of themes and ideas being explored in Heavenly Creatures. The most obvious are obsession, insanity and mental health, the parent-child relationship and friendship, even if the result is detrimental. But there are other themes about adolescence, about how it was changing and there was little understand of this period. We see how adolescence is a period of transition, from the two girls having fantasies which turn darker and they start to embark on more adult ventures, even at their young age, but also making them vulnerable to being exploited. There is a lack of understanding and this was film was set in a period where we are children or adults and no in-between. There is a clique of attitudes and psychology of the period as well a look at differing of parenting approaches.Heavenly Creatures was the first film for Winslet and Lynskey and there were of course there excellent in their roles, playing two hardly complex, troubled girls. Both are very bright and imaginative and you can easily believe in their friendship and relationship and how unusually close they are. The adult actors too were very strong throughout and there were no weak links in a film about two teenage girls taking a very dark turn.If you consider yourself a Peter Jackson fan then you need see Heavenly Creatures. Other wises Heavenly Creatures is worthy film both as a piece of dramatic storytelling, visual filmmaking and a thematic piece about obsessions and unhealthy relationships.
New Zealander director Jane Campion is a renounced visualist as a director but many of her films do not connect with audiences. Her IMDb ratings struggle to get up to a 7.0/10 and whilst she does please critics, audiences find her films uninteresting. But her period drama The Piano is the exception, wining three Oscars, having a 7.5/10 on IMDb, 90% rating on Rotten Tomatoes and working as an art film.1850s a mute Scotswoman, Ada (Holly Hunter) who is arranged to marry a man she has never met, Alistair (Sam Neill), a man who lives on the frontier of New Zealand. Ada, her young daughter Flora (Anna Paquin) and her prized piano move to the forests of South Island in New Zealand. But when Alistair refuses to move the piano his remote home, Ada takes an instant dislike to the shy man. Alistair's friend Baines (Harvey Keitel) offers a solution, he buys the piano and ask Ada to teach him to play. But Baines only wants Ada around for sexual arousal and the sexual tension starts to grow.Campion is a certainly bring a rough edge to The Piano and it felt like the period. This remote outpost really felt like the edge of civilisation. You can easily feel the mud, the rain, the wind and the harsh environment and that it was a tough place to survive. This is not a romantic view of the New Zealand landscape like other director but show what would have been like for settlers in a land that has yet to be developed. This bleak and nature visual is enhanced by the art direction and Stuart Dryburgh slightly dark and dim cinematography.Thematically there is a one big ideas is a clash of cultures. Obviously there the clash between British settlers and Maoris, but also between Ada moving from upper class luxury in Scotland to a small colonial outpost with her daughter and that Baines is a rough, tough and a uncultured man. There is a also a big theme of sexual repression, from Alistair to being a man who seems very shy, looking for love and Baines unable to express himself so starts off being a very creepy. There is also idea that love can not grow or be forced, but a spontaneous thing, something that happens from an act of passion.The acting is excellent throughout. From Holly Hunter in a very difficult role as a mute character, so has to express herself through her body language and her face. Neill and Keitel were great male leads, Neill being the man of civilisation and more traditional fellow and Keitel as a more rustic man of the wilderness and looking for an outlet for his sexual desires. Accompanied with the direction Baines comes off as a creepy character, particularly during a scene when he makes Ada lift up her skirt as she plays the piano and gets pleasure from touching a hole in her clothes. Paquin showed that she was a very good child actress, giving a confidence performance as a young acting older then she is but still acts childish at times. And she also gave an excellent Scottish accent.Michael Nyman supplies an excellent simple piano based that fitted the film.At times The Piano is a little slow at times and about ten minutes could have cut. But overall it is a very interesting film that will supply some food for through 7.5/10
Another Earth marketed itself as a indie sci-fi movie, but this movie is really a drama and a character study that has a sci-fi element in the background. But it is still an excellent movie to please people wanting something intelligential.On the day another planet that could support life is discovered in the Solar System, teenager Rhoda Williams (Brit Marling) kills a woman and her child while driving drunk. After four years in prison, Rhoda becomes depressed and works as a cleaner at a local high school. She tries to make amends with John Burroughs (William Mapother), the husband and father of the people she killed, but ends up lying and pretends to be a maid whom he hires. As they get close they debate the philosophy and ethics of the discovery of this mirror Earth and Rhoda expresses she's willing to leave our Earth to start a new life.Another Earth is mostly a movie about someone's guilt and quest for redemption. In the wrong hands, this movie could have ended up being very melodramatic and over the top, but director Mark Cahill made sure this movie was a low-key affair. Cuts were kept to a minimum and he uses hand-held cameras. Some moments were very voyeuristic; Cahill zooms a little too much, giving Another Earth a slightly amateurish visual.Another Earth was a dialogue-light movie, relying on the visuals and grounded performances to convey the characters' turmoil and development. This is a major strength that gives the film a subtle tone. There is a striking juxtaposition between the constant image of Earth Two in the sky and the down-to-Earth nature of small town America. Added to this is a wonderful, simple score throughout the movie.There are similarities to 2010's Monsters, a low budget movie with a simple story that just happens to have a sci-fi element to it. The films are also similar in that Another Earth and Monsters look at the events after they happened and studies the impact they has on society. This movie takes the idea of a mirror Earth that is popular in sci-fi, cartoons and comics and sees how ordinary people would react and carry on with their normal lives.Another Earth also attempts to be a very philosophical movie, examining the new reality that faces people, asking what would it be like to meet yourself, what would it be like on Earth Two, is going to Earth Two opening up a Pandora's Box or is it a chance to expand our horizons? Scientist Dr. Richard Berendzen offers an occasional voice-over discussing the effects on society and on science, including a segment on inter-planetary politics, feeling very much like the chapter "Dr. Manhattan: Super-powers and the Superpowers" in the graphic novel Watchmen.
Superman is arguably the most famous superhero of them all with a history spanning over 70 years. He is one of the most recognisable figures in pop culture, but since the rise of the superhero genre in cinema Superman has somehow struggled to return to the silver screen. Man of Steel seem set to save Superman's fortunes.On the planet Krypton the planet's chief scientist Jol-El (Russell Crowe) and his wife Lara (Ayelet Zurer) have the first natural born child on the planet generations. But Jol-El discovers that Krypton has only weeks left before the planet collapses on itself and General Zod (Michael Shannon)attempts a military. Amidst the chaos Jol-El and Lara send they son Kal-El to Earth before the planet is destroy.33 years later Kal-El has grown up as Clark Kent (Henry Cavill), a Kansas man with amazing abilities who attempts to remind anonymous but ends up saving people wherever he goes. As he investigates his own past when the American military discover a lost spaceship in the Artic a top journalist, Lois Lane (Amy Adams) tries to find out who her mysterious survivor really is. Even worst Zod and his follows had survived the destruction of Krypton and demands Earth hand over Kal-El, believing he hold the key to the rebirth of their race.Superman Returns was disliked by audience, but I personally enjoyed it. The big criticism of Superman Returns was that it lacked action: Man of Steel has the opposite problem, it is too action heavy. Zack Snyder, the director of 300, Watchmen and Sucker Punch was brought in to helm the film. He started the film with massive battles, fights and chases in opening ten minutes and the film does not stop. Snyder knows how to shoot action, particularly the big battles and showcasing the powers; but his trademark slow-motion is cut back, instead using a hand-held style (but there are some annoying zooms when showing things in flight). Man of Steel is a film that racks up a lot of death and destruction, with half a city getting destroyed. Michael Bay and Roland Emmerich would have been proud. 2013 is a year that has racked up a massive body count in blockbusters.Whilst the action is great, the story is very thin and the film is too long. 30 minutes could easily have been cut and the film is not as thematic as it intends to be. The film wants to have a message of destiny and free will and nature versus nurture: but the film is not as deep as wants to be. Snyder is not a subtle director, but the real let down is the script by David S. Goyer: it really lacked depth. We do not get to see much of Superman as Clark Kent, especially as an adult: we needed to see more of what made him tick and occasionally Superman did feel like a secondary character with the military and Lois Lane taking a lot of screen time. The basic plot of the film is also similar to Transformers and Transformers: Dark of the Moon, i.e. find the alien device that could bring new life to an alien planet/race and try and turn Earth into a habitable world for the aliens.Because of the origins story it is easy to think about the original Superman film and Superman II, there were similarities to the story. Christopher Nolan was a producer for the film and it is clear Warner Brothers were hoping for a repeat of his Dark Knight Trilogy (which it will do financially), but its style and approach actually reminded me more of The Amazing Spider-man, particular some of the plot points, the basic look of the film and the wider picture, such as the use of the military. There are also some elements of J.J. Abrams' Superman Flyby script in Man of Steel as well, examples being Clark Kent trying to control his powers as a child, the use of the military in the narrative and the climax and the use of Zod who takes up Krypton and being the main villain of the film (though in Flyby it was Kal-El's cousin).Man of Steel has a fine cast, with Snyder and his team filling the film with a top actors, a great combination of stars and respected character actors. Cavill does look the part as Clark Kent/Superman but his performance was a little bland: Cavill tried his best but he did not have much to work with. Crowe, Adams, Laurence Fishbourne were all strong in their respective roles and will be serve future Superman films well. But the most fun was Shannon as he chews the scenery as Zod; he is great at playing insane characters. Antje Traue too was notable as Zod's second-in-command.John Williams' famous Superman theme was not included for the reboot. Whilst it is missed, Hans Zimmer's new score was excellent, powerhouse piece of music. The final think to note was cinematography by Amir Mokri was disappointing, having a murky filter making the visuals a little unclean and the colour pallet was a brown, dulling out the film when its colours should have been brighter.Superman is a series that needed a reboot and Man of Steel does set up a new world and the action. But it is a film that plays its hand to early considering the action on the screen, the amount of destruction and how world changing an event it would be. The film should have been a little more small scale. But I will still go and see the sequel.
When Tim Burton made the Batman film did was not too happy about the film he made. He only returned to the franchise because he was allowed to make the film he wanted and you get to see some of his directional traits.The basic plot of the film is a new criminal master-mind, The Penguin (Danny De Vito), is conquering the underworld of Gotham and starting a new rain of terror during Christmas. He captures a major industrialist Max Shreck (Christopher Walken) and holds him to blackmail. Out of anger of being found out Shreck kills his secretary Selina Kyle (Michelle Pfeiffer). She however is brought back to life and she becomes Cat-woman. The three work together and form a plan to take over the city and destroy Batman. A part of the plan is for the Pengiun to 'save' the mayor's son and find out who he really is before running for mayor himself. At the same time Bruce Wayne is forming a relationship with Selina whilst at the same time fighting Catwoman as Batman.This film is darker in tone to Batman and has themes like child-abandonment and child-killing. There is some good casting, Danny De-Vito and Walken are good in there roles, but Pfeiffer was the best casting in the film. However, there are problems with the film, firstly, there is too much focus on the villains, and not enough on Batman. Bruce Wayne is not made out to be an interesting character compared to the Nolan films. Secondly I thought that even this film, whilst it is fairly dark, I still thought that was cartoonary like the penguins and henchmen. I'm also not a great fan of the Gothic style that was used, but considering it's Burton's film it what he does.Batman Returns is best until Nolan comes along. The problem with the executives at Warner Brothers was they though Batman was a family friendly character (he isn't) and did not like what Burton came up with. This was the reason why Joel Schumacher was brought in and made the bad Batman Forever and even worst Batman and Robin.
The new cinematic version of the famous comic book anti-hero Judge Dredd will guarantee the eradication of the memory of the ill-fated Sylvester Stallone version. Director Pete Travis and writer Alex Garland have brought a grim, gritty and violent version of the comic to the screen that will please fans of the 2000 AD creation.The future is hell. The world's population has decreased to 800 million and it is mostly a wasteland. Mega City One spans from Boston to Washington D.C. and it is a chaotic, lawless place where crime, poverty, rioting and unemployment are persistent. Only the Palace of Justice and the Judges bring any form of law and order and the best of them is Judge Dredd (Karl Urban). Dredd is assigned to assess a rookie Judge, Anderson (Olivia Thirlby), who has failed the exams but has psychic abilities. The two have a hell of a first day when both Judges are trapped in the Peach Trees tower block by an intelligent and sadistic crime lord, Ma-Ma (Lena Headey), who controls the distribution of a new drug called Slo-Mo and wants them dead.Travis injects a mixture of styles into Dredd, the brutal violence and action of classic '80s movies, the grim grittiness of both modern sci fi and comic book movies, and hyper-stylised slow-motion that has been constant in action cinema for the past five years. The world created for the movie is bleak, a horrific concrete jungle of tower blocks and highways and most of the vehicles are old, beaten-down cars and vans. Cinematographer Anthony Dod Mantle shows a deliberately murky city in a giant, decaying, smog-filled world, and a distinctive score provides a unique tone. The violence itself very gory with an anime quality to it in the way brains and blood get splattered all over the place. Even the 3D works well during the detailed slo-mo scenes.Although Dredd is in set in a gritty world, it is a movie that is accepting of its comic book elements of psychic powers, mutants and technology; there is no holds barred on the violence and sexual content either. The use of Ma-Ma as the villain and the casting of Headey shows the filmmakers' dedication to a villain who is intelligent and deliciously sadistic, someone who enjoys pain and ultra-violence. But her aims and methods are more moderate because she is a crime lord, not some grand sci-fi schemer.Dredd succeeds in setting a dark futuristic gritty tone and look, though the story the film offers is bare bones. The simple plot involves Dredd and Anderson trapped in a tower block trying to take down a crime lord. It's actually easy to compare this one to The Raid from earlier this year, in which the heroes go in to building to take down crime boss but end up having to fight for their survival. The story plays it safe and allows the filmmakers to focus on getting the tone right to please the fans.For a movie with a budget of $45 Million the CGI and special effects were of a high standard, but it was also limited because of majority of the movie takes place in a limited location of a grey, dark, concert tower with lots action set in corridors. There is a fun car chase in the beginning, showcasing the movie's new found violence, but most of the action is internal shootouts. The action is still solid and enjoying and if a sequel is made it will be more expansive.Dredd and Anderson represent two different views on justice in this world. Dredd is hard-boiled and experienced, willing to use violence and torture to fulfil his duty to protect innocent people. Anderson is more compassionate, someone who suffers guilt and has to learn quickly to use force. Both have to learn from else other to issue justice logically in this world.It is great for Urban to finally get a leading action role. He is much better than the Stallone version, and he gives the character the hard-boiled edge he needed. At times, his voice is simply his own with an American accent, while at others he speaks in a gravelly Batman voice. Urban may not have the biggest physical stature, but he felt fitting to the role overall. And while Dredd lacks the satirical edge the comics are known for, Urban makes sure that his character has a dry wit and the script offers some one-liners and occasional moments of dark humour. For die-hard fans, he never takes the helmet off and the most you will see is the back of his head.Dredd will please fans of the comics longing for the more violent incarnation of their favourite character. It earned a rare 18 rating in the UK, which should tell you something about what you are in for. Dredd shows there is still a place in the modern cinematic landscape for R-rated sci-fi movies.Please visit www.playeraffinity.com
Les Misérables is one of the biggest musicals in the world, being performed on the West End, Broadway and every major theatre district in the world and had countless tours around the world. But it took over 25 years of development hell for a film adaptation to be made.Based on Victor Hugo's epic historical novel, Les Mis the story of Jean Valjean (Hugh Jackman), a convict who had served an 18-year sentence of hard labour after committing a theft. After breaking his parlour he receives the hand of Christian charity from the Bishop of Digne (Colm Wilkinson, the original Jean Valjean) and Valjean seeks to repay his kindness by devoting his life to hard work, charity, religion and seek his redemption. But Valjean is constantly hunted by a determined police office, Javert (Russell Crowe). Along the way on this 17 year story Valjean ends up adopting a young girl Cosette (Isabelle Allen), the daughter of one of Valjean's former workers Fantane (Anne Hathaway), who is forced into poverty and prostitution. And in 1832 students plan a revolution and one of them, Marius (Eddie Redmayne) falls in love with Cosette as an adult (Amanda Seyfried), a man whose best friend, Eponine (the beautiful and talented Samantha Barks) suffers from unrequited love.Fans of the musical will love this adaptation. The casting for the most part was spot on and the songs are in tack. There are only a few minor changes in the order of the songs and it works for narrative sense. Most of the critical response has been very positive and the majority of the negative reviews are from critics who admit they never liked the musical in the first place (which makes you wonder why are they reviewing it if there opinion is so bias).There is a great cast in this adaptation, from big name stars to up and comings to two very talented child actors. Hathaway was best performer, giving a heartbreaking performance as a woman who is broken and her version of "I Dreamed a Dream" will become the definitive version. It was also great the filmmakers took the risk of casting an unknown to play Eponine brought in Barks (someone's casting I somehow predicted). Barks gave a star making performer that was full of emotion and it is somecase of how different directors can get different performances from the same actress. Barks' performance at the 25th Anniversary Concert was more powerhouse with a strong delivery whilst in the film it was more gentle. This was most noticeable during her performance of On My Own to small moments where she sings lines like "every word that he says is a dagger in me". I like bold version.Jackman is a man who started as a musical performance before he landed some small comic book role. He gave an excellent performance, both acting and singing and he gave his all for the role. Redmayne was also of the best Marius' ever. Many of the signature songs were song fantastically and given justice. But there is one big fat elephant in the room: Russell Crowe. He was obviously cast because of his big name, not because of his singing ability. To be fair he was fine when he was singing with other actors because he was working with and reacting to them, acting more then singing: but when he had to do his big solo numbers he was unable to hold the high notes.Director Tom Hooper took the bold step of getting his actors to sing live on set instead of lip-syncing to a backing track and it worked for the actors: they are able to emote and react to the situation instead of being stuck to a ridged song. Many of the big solo numbers ('I Dreamed a Dream', 'On My Own' and 'Empty Chairs at Empty Tables') were done as one long take, intensifying the emotion and we get see every facial expression and feel every emotion. Because of the live action some moments work better in film, like the line 'every word that he says is a dagger in me' was Eponine singing to herself instead of belting it out. Most of the performances were more gentle and naturalistic then it was on the stage. Some songs worked better on the stage simply because the way the flow the stage can provide when a film would need to cut.At a running time of over 2 and half hours Les Mis is long, but it was actually a breeze and it is a great sign that a long film feels shorter then it really is. But the biggest criticism I have is the staging, particular during the revolution because the Barricade and the streets of Paris did look like a sound stage then a real location. I was hoping for a classic, David Lean style epic.Les Mis is a very enjoyable, worthy film. The most harden person against musicals would possibly not be won over, but I personal prefer a musical be mostly sung throughout then people mostly speaking and then suddenly burst out into song.
Claus von Stauffenberg, a man famous for being a German Army Officer who came closest to a assassinating Adolf Hitler. Von Stauffenberg is the closest figure Germany has to a national hero during World War 2. It's surprising that it took so long for a film to be made, nor to be a German film.Valkyrie is a test project for the newly reformed United Artists under Tom Cruise and Paula Wagner. It was also a smaller project for Bryan Singer after doing 3 superhero films and reunite Singer and Christoper McQuarrie for the first time after the Usual Suspects.Valkyrie starts with a prelogue sequence in North Africa. Von Stauffenberg (Tom Cruise) is a disaffected officer who is questioning Hitler's regime and that he was leading Germany to the path of destruction. During a British air raid he is injured badly, loosing an eye, his right hand and two fingers on his left hand. He can no longer serve on the front line. In 1943 General Henning von Tresckow (Kenneth Branagh) fails in his attempt to assassin Hitler and the German Resistance loss an army officer to help with operations. Von Stauffenberg is recruited in the resistance and the General Staff. He comes up with the Valkyrie plan which was to make the assassination of Hitler look like an SS plot, and get the army to launch a coup to 'protect' the Nazi regime. Von Stauffenberg is the only man who could get close to Hitler because he was the Chief-of-Staff for the Reserve Army General. The film is split into three major parts, the planning, the assassination attempt and the attempted coup.Singer was able to bring in a very stylist approach of direction. I enjoy Singer's films and he was able to show his skills again. He is able to get an excellent cast, including Bill Nighy, Kenneth Branagh, Terrence Stamp and Tom Wilkingson to name a few. However, he shot the film in the style of a thriller, which was interesting, but being a historical film with most people knowing the outcome already takes away the suspense. But Singer did make an enjoyable film. The film has a strong scriptValkyrie is a strong, enjoyable film. It is not Singer's best but he can still pull it of.
The low-budget A Field in England became an event of film in the UK due to it being directed by critics favourite Ben Wheatley and being a multi-platform releases, being released in cinemas, on DVD, video on demand and shown on TV all on the same day. But we get is basically a glorified student film.In the middle of the English Civil War an alchemist, Whitehead (Reece Shearsmith) flees from his strict master and joins with two soldiers, Cutler (Ryan Pope) and Jacob (Peter Ferdinando) and a slow-witted musician (Richard Glover). Cutler promises the men he can lead them to an ale house as their travel on a field. But on their journey they meet a mysterious Irishman, O'Neill (Michael Smiley) who wants to find treasure and demanded to use the men on his mission.Ben Wheatley is a highly praised director and critics in the UK were wetting themselves in excitement over A Field in England. But audiences have been more hostile to Wheatley with films like Kill List and A Field in England having low IMDb scores as well as on other audience based votes, such as Lovefilm. I personally believe the praise that A Field in England received was a combination of it release and the film it seen as 'artistically bold'.There are some positives to A Field in England, the acting is of a high standard, the dialogue is solid and it is a good looking film with its costumes and black and white cinematography and it looks more expensive then it really was. A Field in England also has an excellent beginning as we see The Alchemist running away from his master, which was instance, well shot and violence. There are some fun touches with the dialogue but overall this is not really a historic piece.A Field in England is a very problematic film. Due to the single setting of the field A Field in England is forced the film to be very dialogue heavy and the film itself would have been more suited to a stage setting. The story itself is fairly thin and this is a film just wants to be seen as an art house with its more surreal imagery and use psychedelic mushrooms to give the characters hallucinations. At times the film does not even have much of a flow despite its thin premise.Like Kill List, A Field in England suffers from a third act collapse: but A Field in England's is even worst as all the characters goes nut and start to kill each other and as the last two men are high on mushrooms. It felt very much like Wheatley and writer/editor Amy Jump wanted to show how artistic and flashy with all their editing tricks. It really just looked like two student filmmakers trying to impress and if this was film made by an unknown/first time filmmaker critics would have said he/she was trying too hard.A Field in England is a film about nothing. It is a shallow film hiding behind an 'artistic' screen to give the film merit. It is a film with no real message and it had a opportunities to look at people running away from war, or look at religion, supernaturalism and culture in a different time period or even something as simple as drug taking in a different time and culture would result in a very different experience.Overall A Field in England is just a very well made student film: but it was made by professional filmmakers.
When Grindhouse came out in 2007 Quentin Tarantino and Robert Rodriguez also commissioned some trailer for fake grindhouse movies. One of those trailers was for Machete, starring Danny Trejo and it proved so popular Robert Rodriguez made it into a film and started a new genre, Mexiplotion.Machete (Trejo) is an ex-Federale from Mexico who is betrayed by his superiors and a drug baron, Torrez (Steven Seagal). He fled to Texas, with the help of the Network, led by "She" (Michelle Rodriguez). "She" is being watched by Sartana Rivera (Jessica Alba), an Immigrations Officer investigating her and seen as a traitor to her Mexican heritage. Machete is recruited by a businessman, Michael Booth (Jeff Fahey) to assassin John McLaughlin (Robert De Niro), a Texas State Senator standing on a anti-Immigration, right wing platform. But Machete is betrayed again and he discovers a conspiracy involving Booth, McLaughlin and Torrez to control the drugs trade. Machete sets out to take them down and has "She" and Sartana against her.The best feature of Machete is the over-the-top action and violence. Robert Rodriguez know how to deliver a exploitation B-movie, it was stuff he grew up with. The action was actually well constructive and inventive, seeing Machete using a variety of weapons and enjoying hand-to-hand combat. There is even a funny use of stiletto shoes by Ms. Alba. There is also a good use of music throughout the film, especially when thugs attack a Catholic Church and there is a Spanish hymn in the background.The plot is simple but Robert Rodriguez made sure they was a lot of factions and characters. People who go to see Machete knows it is not going to be a art-house classic and just want to have a fun time. Machete is fast and fun, but I do Machete should have had more verbal comedy and been a little more tongue in cheek in tone as well as a homage. We have moved on cheap grindhouse films in midnight theatres. At least Tarantino can elevate this type of material.Acting wise you do not watch a Machete for Oscar winning performance. Whilst it is fun seeing people like Trejo and Seagal having a fight but both of them are unfit and really past their prime. Trejo is a decent enough hero, particularly as he is sliding and dicing villains. Other actors were on autopilot, particularly De Niro who just seem like he wasn't trying. A different actor would have been better suited for the role and De Niro's career truly has declined since the days of Raging Bull and Goodfellas. Michelle Rodriguez seem like she was having fun, but this was not the woman that impressed James Cameron. Overall the best performer was Jessica Alba, and that is statement you will not see often. She is decent throughout her and she actually treats her role seriously. But there are writing problem, turning Sartana from a competent officer to a dismal in distress and back again for when then situation calls for it.Overall, Machete is a fun film, but Mr. Rodriguez we film fans really want to see Sin City 2 and Sin City 3 sooner rather then later!
I am a Bond fan and I like it when the films are serious. I liked Sean Connery, Pierce Bronsan and Timothy Dalton when they played Bond, but I didn't like Roger Moore because I felt most of his films were too silly. I was worried when the filmmakers cast Daniel Craig because I didn't know him at the time and I liked the idea of casting Clive Owen as Bond (I still wouldn't mind seeing him in role). However when the reviews came out and especially after seeing the film my worries were rested.After Die Another Day the Bond franchise needed a reboot. Die Another Day was a poor film, being too silly, having a sci-fi plot and just selling out. At the same time Bond finally had a serious rival in the name of Jason Bourne. Bronsan was also getting too old to be play Bond and a new Bond was needed.I like Casino Royale because it took a more darker, gritty, realistic approach. This was refreshing and needed. It shows Bond as a human and a more darker character, showing him more colder, like a man who does kill for Queen and Country should. Bond does get into tough fights, and the fights feel genuine. Another factor why the film is more realistic is the bad guy, Le Chiffe, is a man who sets out to make as much money as possible. He is sadistic and cold hearted. He was played by Danish actor Mads Mikkelsen who gave moviegoers a good performance. Bond also doesn't led evils monologue, and just kills them or fight them, which would be the more real response. Eva Green was also a very good performer. She played Vesper Lynd, the Bond girl. She is portrayed as a strong character, having to make her a super-spy like Bond. She also felt like a very character, and unlike other Bond girls Eva Green career has actually improved after the role and is now an A-lister.I loved the action in the film as well. Die Another Day used CGI (and poor CGI at that) which shouldn't be used in Bond films unless they is no other option. Martin Campbell took the film back to basics and the action was performed by traditional stunt work. The fight scenes were excellent, and I loved the chase scene in the beginning of the film as just amazing.I can't wait for Quantum of Solace to come out and hope that it can build on the groundwork Casino Royale laid out.
If you don't know anything about Godzilla then you must have been living in cave in the middle of Australia, because it is a massive cultural figure to come from Japan. However, if you haven't seen the film, then I doubt that you what the film is about. Godzilla is a monster film set in Japan. It starts with a number of ships sinking near Odo island and fish stocks had collapsed. After a storm that kills a lot of people and livestock the Japanese government send a team of scientists to investigate. However, the locals believe the reason behind it was a monster of folklore, the Godzilla. Adding to mystery was the the rain from the storm seems radioactive and contaminates some of the island's wells. Once it was proved that the 150 foot monster exists then the Japanese government prepares itself, because he is heading for mainland Japan. The unstoppable beasts causes massive amount of damage and its up to the scientists and military of Japan to find a solution.The film has a number of meanings behind it. The most obvious one is about the nuclear testing in the middle of Pacific ocean that was going on at the time, and saying it awoke a sleeping giant. When one of the scientists makes a weapon to stop Godzilla it raises the debate about whether it was right to use it or would it open a can of worms and be put to evil uses. It has a strong anti-nuclear mission. Another meaning that some critics have seen is that the film is a metaphor for the destruction Japan suffered during the Second World War. Within the scientific community some also wondered if it is right to kill Godzilla or to study him. In the Japanese Parliament there was also a debate about censorship, whether its right to let the public know about the monster. There is a lot in this film. Another feature in this film is the love triangle between Eriko, the daughter of leading Japanese scientist, to a Navy frogman and another scientist who she had known since childhood. It adds a personal dimension to the film.There was some decent model work, but the monster himself is really just a man in a suit, but it was made in 1954, so you have to accept that there weren't many special effects tools at the time. It's still fun seeing Godzilla attacking Tokyo. The acting isn't great, but it's good enough. I personally watched it in Japanese, and I really dislike dubbing foreign films because it looses its impact. The stand out performance was the woman who played Eriko. The film had a typical 1950s melodrama about it.Godzilla has been a very important film. It has a number of sequels, a mediocre American remake, and has influence films such as the Host and Cloverfield.
Boys Don't Cry is a brutal, hard hitting drama about the tragic story of Brandon Teena (Hilary Swank), a young woman with gender identity disorder and aims to live her life as a man. With a history of juvenile delinquency and social rejection from a homophobic, ill-informed community Brandon finds acceptance in Fall City, Nebraska, finding friends with a group and even love with Lana Tisdel (Chloe Sevigny). But when Brandon's secret is discovery it leads to rejection, violence, rape and murder.Boys Don't Cry is an extremely well acted, well directed film, particularly from Swank and Sevigny who had very tough roles. Director Kimberly Peirce gives Boys Don't Cry a very tight, claustrophobic feel with her close direction in small settings and she does not shy away with the brutality when showing the violence and the horrific rape scene.Boys Don't Cry is a very raw, powerful film and a fine example of American independent filmmaking as we get a film about acceptance, love and prejudice.
In both the book and film universes of Harry Potter, Chamber of Secrets is the weakest, having the weakest story and the one which doesn't seem to fit in with the wider arc. But as a film Chamber of Secrets still works as an entertaining family film.After a summer of no contact with any of his friends from Hogwarts Harry Potter (Daniel Radcliffe) ends up finding a strange creature in his bedroom, a House-elf called Dobby (Toby Jones). Dobby warns Harry that he is in danger if he returns to Hogwarts. He ensure Harry is trapped, but is saved by his friends Ron (Rupert Grint), Fred and George Weasley (James and Oliver Phelps). Harry and his friends soon return to the school, hoping to continue his education. But strange things start to happen, with students end up getting petrified, and a warning written in blood, suggesting that all students from muggle families. There is a major threat to the students and to the school, with suggestions that it would be closed down. Harry starts to even doubt himself, with many of the students suspecting him because he has the ability to talk to snakes. Harry, Ron and Hermione (Emma Watson) set out to investigate and stop whoever or whatever before someone is killed.Everyone returns to the film, with Kenneth Branagh joining as the publicity hungry wizard Gilderoy Lockhart who becomes the new defence against the dark arts teachers, and Jason Issacs as Lucius Malfoy, Draco's father. Jason Issacs is excellent as the horrible wizard and ex-follower of Voldermort. With the younger actors they all improve, with Daniel Radcliffe improving the most. Rupert Grint and Emma Watson do still suffer a little from their inexperience. The adult actors are really good, but Richard Harris does seem ill, and he sadly dies after finishing this film.Chris Columbus is a decent director, he has a workmanlike approach. He tires to play to his strength, family friendly comedy. They are some good jokes, some verbal, mostly visual and physical. He also show more confident involving CGI and special effects. The final third has an very good climax, but the ending itself does drag. But Columbus doesn't know how to shorten the film. Despite Chamber of Secrets being one of the shorter books, he makes the longest film. He needed to cut off some of the fat for the film. Just because something works in the book, it doesn't mean that they would work in the film. Columbus may be good at dealing with light subject matter, but he is not so good at handling darker elements of the story. He took the right step to let Alfonso Cuaron direct the third film as the stories get darker. Columbus often skips over dark elements or doesn't know what to do with it. A good example would be the idea of prejudice and a type of racism in wizarding world, an interesting idea, or Dobby's self-harming.As already mentioned the book was also the weakest out of all of J.K. Rowling's series. It has the weakest story, offering nothing new. It was filler until the next book which is one of my favourites in the series.Good fun for families and Potter fans, but wouldn't convert anything who isn't a fan.
The trailer for Haywire presented itself as a fun action-packed B-movie homage with A-list calibre talent, but what we get is a very bland, boring movie that fails as an action flick and as a thriller and should have been confined to straight-to-DVD hell.Mallory (Gina Carano) is a former marine and a private contractor for a security company. She is a professional ass-kicker and her skills are in high demand, which leads her to leave her current employer, Kenneth (Ewan McGregor). But on a mission in Dublin she is set up as a murderer and nearly killed. Mallory has to go the run and get revenge against Kenneth and anyone he is working with.Gina Carano is obviously an accomplished martial artist and the action scenes were very brutal, raw and hard-hitting. She is able to hold her own despite the initial shock of seeing grown men putting a beating on her. There's a nice moment when Carano enters her first fight against Channing Tatum and the music stops and you end up just watching two people having a gritty fight in which anything goes. But the music dropping out during the other fights quickly loses its impact to the point that the final fight is extremely anti-climactic.Steven Soderbergh is of course a respected director able to make a movie in almost any genre. But he can be very hit and miss at the same time. Haywire goes squarely in the miss category. His direction was very underwhelming. Haywire is slow, poorly paced and the action scenes are too few and far between. Rather than being an action movie it comes off as an uninteresting and very cheap-looking spy flick. The best bits of the movie are in the very misleading trailer. The plot is unremarkable, there is no real intelligence nor any character development whatsoever.Most of the actors throughout the movie were on autopilot and their performance reflected that, most of them being very boring. After trying to make porn star Sasha Grey into a legitimate actress, Soderbergh tries the same with Carano to no avail. It is clear that Carano is not a trained actress and she lets her fists do the talking. Her character was almost like Lisbeth Salander: cold, distant and clinical. The few times she speaks, her delivery is stiff. Tatum looked and sounded like he was drunk during the movie and McGregor and Michael Douglas were just so dull. Only Michael Fassbender comes out with some credit.The score by David Holmes is one of the worst and most misjudged I have ever heard. It sounds like a bad jazz album set to a '60s spy series, which doesn't fit the film's tone at all.Although many see this film as an attempt to "take back action cinema" or as a great example of female empowerment and a woman showing her credentials as a action hero, Kill Bill, Hanna and Kick-Ass are much better movies with strong ass-kicking female characters. Don't bother with Haywire.Please visit www.playeraffinity.com
Since the release of Clint Eastwood's excellent Unforgiven back in 1990, the Western has slowly been making a comeback, especially in the 2000s, with films like the 3:10 to Yuma, the brilliant TV Series Deadwood to even foreign entries like Australia's the Proposition and South Korea's The Good, the Bad and the Weird. The Assassination of Jesse James by the Coward Robert Ford is the closest out of the modern Western to come need Eastwood's masterpiece.As the title of the film suggests, this film is about Jesse James' assassination. It focuses on the end of Jesse James' (Brad Pitt) career and life and his relationship with Robert 'Bob' Ford (Casey Affleck). Jesse James was an outlaw in Missouri, with a reputation as a Robin Hood like figure. It starts out in a forest where Jesse James was with his gang. This is 19-year-old Bob Ford's first encounter with the man. He gets involved with a train robbery with the gang. Jesse James takes a liking to Ford, but Frank James (Sam Shepard) doesn't trust the kid. Bob Ford quickly becomes a member of Jesse James' gang, rising up the ranks and just happy to be with his idol. The gang act like as an extended family to James, even living with his wife and family. Sometimes Jesse James goes off on his own, and leave the gang with his family. But within the gang there are problems, Bob Ford doesn't get on with other members and some of the member even planned to capture James and give him over to the authorities for money. The gang take the mick out of Bob for his hero worship and this leads to him threaten them. The gang splits up and James derides Bob, forcing him to leave. Bob leaves the gang and plans his revenge. He sees that James wasn't a hero and ends up going to the authorities and works with them. With his brother Charley (Sam Rockwell), plan to kill Jesse James.This is a wonderfully acted, beautifully shot film. Brad Pitt is a great actor most of the time and this film offers one of his strongest performances. This is a rare performance as a villain and shows Jesse James as a psychotic thug. Casey Affleck is also excellent as the creepy Bob Ford. The film also has excellent performances from by Rockwell, Paul Schneider, Jeremy Renner and Mary-Louise Parker (an actress I really like). It also has a surprising performance by the Raging Cagan James Carville who is famous for being Bill Clinton's election adviser.The director of the film was Andrew Dominik, an New Zealand born Australian. This is his first film since the excellent Chopper. With his cinematographer Roger Deakins shot the film with a slightly wash-out look that gives the film a beautiful, but bleak view of the Old-West. A scene which shots Jesse James hand going along with grain blowing in the wind reminded me a little of Gladiator, which isn't surprising seeing Ridley Scott was a producer.The Assassination of Jesse James takes a psychological approach, and looks at the relationship within the group and between the character. It was an extended family. There is no glamour in their criminal lives and Jesse James slowly melt's down as a character. It also looks at the theme of hero worship and how meeting your heroes may not be that rewarding. It takes to take a realistic approach to the Old West. If you want an action-packed film then you are going to be disappointed.Unforuanately the film does have some problems. It is slow at times which makes the film drag. It also reminded me too much of Unforgiven, which was a classic. It was also easy to get lost with the amount of characters and the deals that were made.It's a fine 4 out of 5.
Looking for a fun film for all the family with nice song? Then this is a good choice. Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory is based on the Roald Dahl children's story Charlie and the Chocolate Factory. The basic story is Willy Wonka has placed five Golden Ticket in his chocolate bars and five lucky children will get a free tour and a life time's supply of chocolate. Charlie is a poor English boy who lived in a small house with his mum and grandparents. He is also a very unselfish child who works as a paper boy and uses his money to help his family. Charlie also wants to be one of the children who get one of the golden tickets. Charlie gets lucky and finds one of the tickets and get to go to the factory. The four other children who find tickets are Augustus Gloop, a very greedy German child, Veruca Salt, a very solid English child, Violet Beauregarde, a self-obsessed American and Mike Teavee a TV-obsessed American child. When all the characters get to the Chocolate factory they find a surreal place which offers the children everything they could want, but one by one all of them get weeded out because of their selfishness. The whole point of Willy Wonka is that it's a morality tale about being good and avoid being selfish.This film has some nice little songs; the ones that I think our best are 'A World of Pure Imagination' and 'I Want it Now'. I feel that the mood is just right and go for children of all ages. It is more lighter then the Tim Burton version which I think is better. The Oompa-Loompa are also great in the film and you can't help by like them. They have been parodied in a number of times, including in the Simpsons, Futurama and Family Guy. I think that they are a lot better in this version then the Burton version. Gene Wilder was also perfectly casted as Willy Wonka, getting the role just right and I think his version is better then Johnny Deep's.All in all Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory is a nice little film for all the family which shows it classes by being parodied. This film is better then remake.
American Psycho was based on a successful novel, which led to being a film with a cult following. It is the most successful film of Mary Harron's career, and Christian Bale's first lead role as an adult actor.Patrick Bateman (Christain Bale), is a very rich, successful 27-year-old man working for a major Wall Street investment company. He lives in a nice apartment in the Big Apple, physically very fit, hansom, has a organized routine, and is completely insane. He lives the high live of an executive, fancy restaurants, beautiful women, recreational drugs, etc... There is an even darker side to his world, involving affairs, prostitution and of course very violence murder. His blood lust starts to increase and can't content himself. He murders tramps and prostitutes, he suffers from extreme anger and envy. He murders Paul Allen (Jared Leto), another successful young man: his disappearance is investigated Detective Kimball (Willem Dafoe). Patrick's mind starts to decline.This film is more surreal then I expected. It reminded very much of A Clockwork Orange and Taxi Driver, both classics, but looking at the upper end of society, not the working class. It does show a man who mind does break down and his looking for an identity in a hollow world. It is a satire of the high-powered 80s New York. It has a strange dark humour in places that works.Of course this film has a great cast. This is the film that made Bale's adult career. He has a great performance as a psychopath and shows his talent. I particularly enjoyed the scene when he murders Paul Allen where he was like Jim Carrey. Jared Leto only has a small role but is good as he normally is. So was Cara Seymour as a prostitute who is brought into Patrick's corrupted world.Harron directs a very violence, but this isn't torture porn like Hostel or the Saw films. There is reason behind it, and she only shows what she has to. She shows that she has a competent hand behind the camera and a decent art-house director. She handles the mix between reality and fantasy, leaving the film to be very ambiguous.A decent watch.
Super was a real labour of love for all the people involved. James Gunn started trying to get the project off the ground as early as 2002 and he ended up having to go to indie route and the actors involved ended up working for scale, the acting version of working for minimum wage. Despite mixed critical reaction Super is already on the way of being a cult classic.Frank D'Arbo (Rainn Wilson) is one of lives losers, he works as cook in a bad diner, he has been bullied and humiliated all his life and the only good thing in his live is his beautiful wife Sarah (Liv Tyler). But Sarah is a recovering drug addict and she ends up leaving Frank for drug dealer Jacques (Kevin Bacon). After a lot of crying and depression Frank gets a message from God and the All-Jesus Network superhero the Holy Avenger (Nathan Fillion) to become a superhero and armed with his catchphrase and a wretch sets out to fight crime and get Sarah back.Super has been compared to Kick-Ass, they are both black comedies, they are both about a ordinary guys trying to be superheroes even though they have no powers or skills what so ever and they are very violent. Unlike Kick-Ass Super does follow Frank all the way through, he is not over shadowed by a more powerful character. Unlike Kick-Ass which shot in a bright, colourful stylist way and tried to make itself look like a comic book Super was made looking like a indie film, using hand-held cameras and digital film. It was set in a bland, unremarkable middle American city where not much happens. James Gunn does not flinch from the violent and for a film that cost $2.5 Million it looks good, using great physical effects and even CGI for a dream sequence. The final third was a very well made action sequence with the blood packs in heavy use: it was gory fun.Wilson was excellent in the lead role as Frank, a man who finally takes action and shows that for a chubby middle-age he can pack a punch with the right weapon. Unlike Kick-Ass he does not want to stop crime because he sees injustice in society or fight to stop evil, he does it because of an injustice against him personally and he is rash, someone who finally snaps after all the bullying he suffers, including smashing a bloke in the head with his wretch just for cutting in line. Wilson was at his best when he was serious and he made for a compelling lead, even if he seems like a man with psychological issues. Ellen Page was a complete nutter as a young woman who wants to fulfil her violent comic book fantasies and just really enjoys beating people up when she is finally given the opportunity. Bacon is delightfully slimy as the villain of the piece and like his role in X-Men: First Class shows he does not show restraint. And Liv Tyler is also provides a solid performance in the film. Cult favourite Fillion does have funny moments starring in a bad, cheap TV show.As a comedy it was not funny enough. There was some good moments when it was surreal, providing us with WTF moments and there are good observations, but some other moments do not work, particularly a joke where Frank is wearing a fake beard. But at least the film some superhero clichés and uses it opportunity to make fun of them. You can't help but laugh at the Crimson Bolt telling someone off after smashing their heads in.Tyler Bates, the composer of 300, provides another top score, especially for the action sequences and he deserves a not of recognition for its work.Super is the indie attempt to make a comedy about someone who tries to become a superhero and takes a more grounded approach to Kick-Ass. It is not perfect but it is fun enough and I can see why it is becoming a cult classic.
The Who are great, they are one of my favourite bands, made great albums and were an important part of the British music scene in the 60s and 70s. They were a major band during the Mods and Rocker clashes in the 60s, being a Mod band. Tommy is seen by many music critics as their best album, an important concept album which influence future albums like The Dark Side of the Moon and American Idiot. It became a Rock Opera and that Rock Opera was turned into a film directed by Ken Russell.The film tells the story of Tommy (Barry Winch/Roger Dalton) who as a young boy sees his mum and step-dad having sex which results with becoming blind, deaf and dumb. His mum (Ann-Margret) becomes extra devoted to her son. Tommy ends up showing that he has a talent for playing pinball, despite his disability. His step-dad (Oliver Reed) uses him to make the family rich. After Tommy miraculously regains his scenes he ends up becoming cult figure with people wanting to know his secret and help them.The album of Tommy is great and I recommend people to listen to it. It is very dark and a wonderful example of The Who's music. But as a film it doesn't translate well. They is a good beginning showing the love between Tommy's parents which is well handled and doesn't need dialogue. They is a basic plot, but a lot scenes in the film are just play like a bunch of music videos. Examples are the scenes involving the Acid Queen, Pinball Wizard and Sally Simpson. Even in musicals, such as Sweeney Todd, they are still scenes of normal dialogue, or play the song as a conversation. But this film basically played and song the songs for most of the time, making the audience feel devoid from the action on the screen. There were only small motions where the audience could engage. Some of the actors/singers were poorly casted, Oliver Reed is the best example with his poor vocals. Tina Turner was another poor choice. The directional of Ken Russell also felt like he had been taking psychedelic drugs. There are some positives. Obviously the music is brilliant: it is The Who. I also did enjoy Ken Russell's direction when it was more down to Earth and grim, so mainly in the beginning.But sadly this is really a random collection of bits rather then a real film.
