Having showed considerable potential with his first two features Aronofsky runs a little too free with an idea this time. The Fountain has some worthy ideas concerning the nature of mortality and whether life or love have greater longevity. Unfortunately these ideas are trapped with trite lovers' small talk/emoting and then drowned in a bleached, sub-2001 animation that glosses the visual into contemptible mush.Aronofsky's gift is to suggest ideas and then weave a credible, stylish cinematic narrative around them. Those ideas need not be particularly coherent - The Fountain is the least insubstantial in a list which probably has Pi next, then Black Swan.Unlike M Night Shyamalan, whose storytelling relies on its content, none of this really matters. Aronofsky's art is in the telling. Here it's gooey mess (and often impenetrably dark) and the principal actors look like they've given themselves over to the editing suite rather than engaged with something of the story or its philosophy. General intensity is insufficient.I think the film's about the immortality of love versus the only seen when corporeal mortality is embraced. This has been covered in much greater, penetrating, resonant tale called Tristan and Isolde, and I would rather see Kevin Reynolds' decent-if-literal 2006 film than this. 3/10
A superbly handled, scripted and, above all, acted drama. The story of a moral furore over the election of a replacement Vice President, leaked and stoked for political purposes, resonates with the moral dissolution that marked the end of Clinton's period of office.IMDb notes that director Lurie prepared the part of Laine Hanson specially for Joan Allen and it shows: I haven't seen Erin Brokovich at this time of writing but I will now given that Julia Roberts' performance denied Allen a best actress Oscar. Jeff Bridges plays the controversial President role as far as it will go, with whimsy but also a decorously maintained competence. In fact that chief political characteristic of concealing character and intentions is the overriding theme of the film, also exhibited by the fantastically irascible Gary Oldman. A rather obvious but no less gripping political street thug, Shelly Runyon wants to parachute his own (Republican) man into the vacant position. A furious battle of accountability vs privacy ensues.It's a gripping tug of war between Runyon and Hanson with a first class supporting cast, the like of which would be familiar to initiates of The West Wing's ensemble. There's a surprising if saccharine twist to boot. 8/10
I really rather enjoyed this Brett Easton Ellis adaptation. Roger Avary has got just the right mix of primary-coloured teenage hedonism (kinda like Weird Science) and nihilist, soul-eating depravity. I know what I'm watching is a sober chronicle of the over-privileged plumbing the depths but it funny and slick - I imagine it's rather like the experience of trying potent drugs itself, in fact.The cast is a latter-day Brat Pack who act with commensurate assurance and flair. My experience of this film is as temporary and disposable as the lifestyle that the characters wade through, blurred and neon and leaving the rather nasty feeling of aesthetic nausea. If you can put up with that though it's a sobering slice of teen pulp to fill out a weekend's afternoon. 4/10
A clumsy, groping attempt at a self-referential/fourth wall assaulting slasher flick. I'm pleased to be able to say that Michael Haneke has gone on to make an almost incomparably better film examining narrative, memory, assumption and fiction-or-reality in Hidden (Caché).In Funny Games however, we are simply presented with an oil-black farce of manners which attempts auto-development by getting the principal maniac to talk to camera. That (and another couple of poorly executed ideas) is too little presented with too heavy a hand. There is none of the sleight of direction that characterises David Croenenberg's genre-kaleidoscoping A History Of Violence, nor the more thorough scripting of Man Bites Dog (C'est arrivé près de chez vous).Haneke is spoilt with a freakishly committed, self-effacing central performance from Susanne Lothar as the mother. It can't disguise the film's shortcomings though. 3/10
An easy-going and pleasant comedy. Folk music isn't so much the target of Guest/Levy's satire as the documentary form (I felt The Last Waltz well and truly lampooned here). I also like the discreet way in which the passing of time from the folk heyday is marked. Sex is a licit topic of open discussion for many of the protagonists, though it seems odd or clunky to modern characters' sensibility. There's also a wonderful written set piece in which the term "nowtro" replaces retro (don't ask, just watch).That said, I felt that the film was probably a bit underwritten, relying on the technical aptitude of the cast (which is assured). Either the manner in which characters behave towards one another is based on their histories - in which case there's not quite enough backstory - or the idea is to create vignettes of artistic caprice based soley in the present, in which case it felt undercooked.Nonetheless, and in no small measure to a beautifully composed and performed digetic soundtrack, the film is celebratory. An easily overlooked wholesomeness to 60s American music history is well-honoured. 5/10
You can leave your hat on. Alternatively you can cast it into the air with all the abandon of the graduate or the homecoming serviceman. It's a terrific film, making you blow away tears with bellylaughs. Robert Carlyle leads a super cast with all the ferocity of Trainspotting's Begbie (plus a soft centre that we encounter again in the subsequent Angela's Ashes). The others plays their types as if they weren't: all manner of concealed male neuroses are documented in the melodrama, no doubt as a counter-riposte to the 90s fad of ladette-ism.Peter Cattaneo really likes the set-piece, picaresque approach to film making. So do I, when it's carried off in this manner - without fuss and with a sure grip on the pacing and larger view of the picture. There are one or two set pieces (the famous 'dole-queue' scene) which don't have a necessarily contiguous dramatic function but really let the work breathe and smile. But the film's great achievement is its triumphant escapism, the irresistibility of its humour and exuberance that leaves you bouncing out the theatre despite the testy social realism that has midwifed all the joy. Super 8/10
A sci-fi twist on a drugs-bust thriller, told with the interesting animation-conversion device of rotoscoping. The film achieves two things. First, a convincing interpretation of what it might be like to experience perception-altering drugs; second - as in all Philip K Dick adaptations - an assault on an ethical issue under this different status quo.In pursuing the first, rotoscoping is a simple and effective technique. Pictures are rendered elastic and psychedelic, but still we often ask ourselves whether we're actually watching untreated footage. It also allows Linklater to introduce the idea of a suit worn by undercover agents to protect their identities. The thriller element of the film revolves around this: will the protagonists be able to identify one another despite the suits? And does that matter when they are involved with a drug that impairs their ability to identify individuals who are not covert? What's left? What might be left is the hard won denouement of the film. As in Charlie Kaufmann (who prepared an early draft of a script for this film)'s Eternal Sunshine, hope springs from the ability of the protagonists to remember truths that might not be part of their personal memories and experiences but from something more isolated - a categorical imperative, or more simply, a truth.This is all a bit mealy, and Linklater does a good job in pulling off a film that is often funny or at least entertaining. Robert Downey Junior is very good, if often over the top. Keanu Reeves' moody slacker is the ideal attitude for the stoner caught between chemical and metaphysical ennui - Winona Ryder the perfect partner to this. 6.5/10
This is a rather slight film. When Louis Armstrong (who also stars) bookends the movie proper with 'end of song - beginning of story... end of story!' you'd be forgiven for wondering is you'd seen anything at all. In fact everything relies on parading a small stable of the world's most bankable A-list entertainers for its duration. And to their credit, this more or less comes off.It helps that there are plenty of opportunities for song and dance as the cast prepare for a society's-peak, money-no-option wedding. Amazingly Bing Crosby pips Sinatra to the 'suave' post, although Frank is clearly the young pretender to the throne and acknowledged as such in the script. For this is a film entirely at ease with itself, postmodern before the term was coined and whose only drama is the astonishingly fickle sexual tension that splashes around like the Cordon Rouge everyone drinks too much of. Grace Kelly's story is of course the most inextricably ironic: that this lavish life-meets-art party should end with a wedding, as indeed her acting career finished here with marriage.Story Satchmo? There's no story. Thank goodness! 6/10
A beautifully made film, running smoothly and succinctly over its two hours. I raised an eyebrow as the final act of the denouement comes into play but this is a film about the moral muddle of the wild West - the fog of (frontier) war. There's a lot going on with the acts and words of each character accruing to their character, rather than feeding the genre. That said I found the solipsisms in which Crowe's outlaw Wade talks about the woman he has left behind left me cold. I suspect that this is to do with his acting, although I found the rest of his performance convincing enough.Bale is the centre of the film. Dan Evans is a man up against it but with increasing opportunities to buy an easier life. The naive scorn of his eldest son (a fine turn from Logan Lerman) urges him on in his opportunistically grasped undertaking, to deliver Wade to the eponymous prison train. Other characters accompany but fall away from him as if in a parable - I particularly relished the fine Peter Fonda (Byron McElroy). Of Wade's gang, Ben Foster's psychopathic Charlie Prince is most pungent, a glazed-over version of Klaus Kinski's maniacal hunchback in For A Few Dollars More.Mangold's style is a little clean, well-observed but distanced from the elemental nature of the setting and action. It's sharp though and well- photographed with good detail. As the film progresses so motives begin to detach themselves from reality and the purpose become personal and pure. Mangold guides it to its close with panache and surety and can be forgiven the sentiment of its ethical summit. 7.5/10
The same as the first, inevitably: high-concept goreathon in a drip-feed thriller with a Chubby Checker of a twist. This time the cast is larger and we have more of an outside conceit with the cops tracking down Dr Evil-type 'Jigsaw' and then getting involved.I always feel uncomfortable watching this sort of film. The principal attraction is the horrible fair-stall array of against-the-clock tasks the victims must undertake for salvation. It's all bound together with Jigsaw's compassionless ethics and logic, Tobin Bell again doing a wonderful job of selling it. No-one's exempt as all are sucked in by their imperfections. Despite this the film succeeds - I got irritated more by the clunky bits of expositional scripting delivered in made-for-telly fashion.It's well put together in it's monochromatic (both senses) way and effectively puts me off drug dealing. 5/10
A dull, soulless film made to cash in on a computer game. The shooting (i.e. of the camera!) isn't at all bad. But then there are also extensive sequences shot in Russia, a Mercedes-Jeep, Bourney underscoring... yes, you get the entirely unoriginal idea.Tim Olyphant tries quite hard - he's been given a potentially career-advacing role - and fritters it away, shot by shot. The only thing he gets right is the rigid perambulation that is designed to mimic the game (along with the high perspective following-tracking shots), which is no advert for his potential. Dougray Scott and Ulrich Thomsen are hired to give the film some credibility and provide half-decent support. The sundry heavies, I'm-from-London-town-guv'nor! appendage of Michael Offei and the irritating, cartoonish love interest of Nika Boronina do not.Poor script, lousy plot, fantastically over-costumed and rendered shoot-em-ups played by zombiethesps. It's a shame, since it's been assembled in a workmanlike manner. 3/10
A frosty, tear-stained eulogy for suburban America-as-innocence. Yes, it's been done before but not in quite the same fashion and this is as good as any predecessor. The film tells the story of a ferocious overnight cold snap and its consequences, although Ang Lee uses this as the crux of a longer essay in a corrupted, Watergate befuddled 70s middle America.Sigourney Weaver is the somewhat unhinged housewife Janey Carver, misdirecting her self-loathing when she catches her kids in a rite of pre-adolescence. Lacking purpose she looks for escapism with other friends in drugs and a bitter wife-swapping party. Jamey Sheridan plays her husband Jim as a lost jock, old-school America unable to keep up with this social disintegration. The greatest tragedy is always reserved for the righteous in films about the irrational and the characters and performances created by Kevin Kline and Joan Allen as Ben and Elena Hood cannot withstand the climate (in all its forms) that engulfs them on the evening of the film's title. Tobey Maguire and Christina Ricci are also excellent. A strongly affecting melodrama 7.5/10
This is an exciting, if slightly predictable submarine thriller from Tony Scott. Initially I was surprised that the film was so strongly patriotic from a director I'd thought of as rather more liberal - later I came to the conclusion that the examination of the moral drama at it's heart is all the stronger for being examined with rather more rigour than a straightforward cowboys 'n injuns flick.The Hunt For Red October is probably a better modern thriller involving a submarine, but Scott isn't trying to compete. All the action is about the claustrophobia of being in the vessel - the claustrophobia of holding two different, conflicting opinions inside the same head. Overtly it's about the gift and curse of being specifically and American citizen...... hang on! Sure, it's all that, but the fun of the film is that it's about big characters trying to outwit one another on a nuclear submarine. Yes, Washington and the peerless (and here, ever so slightly camp!) Gene Hackman could phone it in but treat us to something above par. 6/10
Writer Cormac McCarthy has tried to graft some Elmore Leonard onto his arm's-length existential character landscape. He seems to want a pulp thriller that is a panoply of nihilist vignettes. It doesn't come together. The small talk is stillborn; characters only really flesh out when they have weighty things to say. The actors are given good styling to help them develop something pointed, something potent - it tells us something though when the small and extra roles are as impressive as their named counterparts.The acting occasionally flashes with the calibre one expects from reading the cast list: Fassbender is properly pummelled by the trajectory of the film; Cameron Diaz does a super job as an offbeat moll-with-nous; Penélope Cruz, Bruno Ganz and (in the only truly gold-standard scene of the film) Rubén Blades are excellent.It is entirely likely that issues outside the production may have affected the film in the end. I was involved but disappointed that it couldn't have been better than it was. 6/10
I wouldn't know about the book, which I haven't read, but Spike Jonze's film of Where The Wild Things Are is a fairly simple story. Max, a boy temporarily isolated in childhood, immerses himself in his alternate dream-world to escape his troubles: the end of the world; his puberty- alienated sister; the threat of his mother's independence of him in the wake of an unexplained paternal absence. Having exhausted his imagination he returns to the reality of home.When Max first encounters the Wild Things the scene is post-apocalyptic, yet Max throws himself, unperturbed, into the melee. The child's-eye view of this abominable scene immediately neuters it - we must reset our ability to judge. Max's adventures continue Pinter-like, i.e. without rhyme or reason but creating space for emotional exchanges, until the claustrophobia of this behavioural parity drives him back to the real world.The brilliance of Spike Jonze (and Dave Eggers)'s film is in their refusal to nuance the extraordinary solipsism that constitutes the bulk of the film with moralising or even explanation. There are symbols and references that resonate for the older, or, dare I say it, more erudite viewer. The beach, for example, is a strong visual denominator, recalling the crushing existential-apocalypse denouement of The Planet Of The Apes. It's also indicative of the passing of time. Can you tell how long Max spends in the land of the Wild Things? It might be only an evening but then could Tom Hanks tell how long he spent on the atoll in Cast Away? Or does it matter to Steve McQueen the actual span he fights to release himself from island incarceration in Papillon? Indeed Max cannot tell how long his adventure is. The adventure lasts as long as he needs it to. Yet, as is so often the way here, Eggers and Jonze choose not to make the point or create the epiphany. The boy doesn't clock the experience as dream or flight of fancy. He doesn't get home to admit to 'learning something today'. This is simply another experience in the easily digested diet of phenomena that such a child consumes, and is rendered as such.Yet for the audience, the experience, at a remove, may be more significant. I can imagine that some may be put off by the American Indie vernacular creep that may have been fatal to Wes Anderson's Fantastic Mr Fox. However the combination of everyday exchanges and the almost total abstraction of the location and characters packs quite a punch. A strong, poetic film from Jonze in the tradition of Electroma rather than (for example) Being John Malkovich. 8/10
Well there are all sorts of Legacies although Tron is the least of them. How about any number of the latter Star Wars films, particularly Revenge of the Sith, with it's red, double-ended light sabres, hooded Magus and Oedipal issues? There's a healthy dollop of Matrix-sequel fetish gear too, especially in the Tatooine cantina, oh, sorry, I mean that Michael Sheen-as-David-Bowie sequence. Director Joseph Kosinski even borrows a bedroom from Kubrick's 2001, complete with Baroque mirror frames.Needless to say, all this substitution is essentially to prop up a film whose only idea is 'sequel'. It's a complacent project, with none of the emotionally aware technical adventure that made its imperfect predecessor so intriguing. In fact, technically it's also a failure, with a barely passable, plastic CGI proxy for the young Jeff Bridges and hectic chase sequences over-complicated to the extent of epilepsy- induction by the mandatory 3D.To me the sine qua non Bridges was also phoning his role in. Garrett Hedlund is a better Hayden Christensen than, er, Hayden Christensen but still pretty anonymous. I was delighted to discover that Olivia Wilde managed to squeeze more out of her role than wearing tight trousers (even these were covered up). She was credible. The script they all have to chew through pre-dates the retro arcade games on show.No, it's all a bit of a bore. Perhaps if the early Cillian Murphy cameo had turned out to be significant it might have had the chance to catch fire. Or even light up just a little more than a Dutch sex shop sign. 3/10
A Geena Davis/Sam Jackson thriller vehicle. But a good one! Lots of laughs and action and everything seasoned with a liberal splash of hoch-90s cool.I particularly like: the Brian Cox pre-Bourne agent-handler cameo; Geena Davis moisturising with vodka; Samuel L Jackson. OK then, Samuel L Jackson effortlessly wearing a huge wardrobe of Kangol seconds. Above all I have discovered that I'm a none-too-closet Geena Davis fan.It's a fairly serious plot but the sense of silliness is all-permeating and frankly that's just as well. Watch with friends, drink and comfort food when you've an evening to waste. 5/10
I really rather enjoyed this Carrell vehicle, although I'm much the same sort of middle-aged, middle-class, regret-sump everyman that he plays. This is the point of the film: it's created to tee up the easy-going end of Carrell's shtick and the drama funnels itself down a chicane of warm circumstantial comedy into a happy ending.This doesn't mean one shouldn't like it. Juliette Binoche may be a little Bohemian for the setup but it productive to have that grit in the oyster of an extended family. Carrell is very professional and plays a Dad extremely well, all the self-rapprochement and misgivings deeply buried but not hidden. The family at large is barely believable but not incredible largely because of Diane Wiest, who fulfils the same role to the cast as a mother would to such a family - gravitational centre. The three young daughters are excellent. 5/10
A really excellent film, lean and purposeful, if depressing. It's also a modest but incisive post-9/11 film. Will Smith's military scientist hero battles suicidally nihilist zombies who are - in one of a few imagination-benders in the film - surprisingly well-organised. Despite the pragmatic realism of his existence his story is bookended with his entertaining the possibility of God: a true moderate. He even refers to New York (in toto) as Ground Zero.Francis Lawrence's film is, foremost, an action thriller. He balances the action with making full use of all the extraordinary possibilities that an abandoned New York would offer. As affecting as the malice of twilight chase sequences is Neville's mesmerising isolation. Will Smith has a role as demanding yet as fertile as Tom Hanks found in Castaway. In the main he is quite superb, although the two key scenes confronting his loneliness are sabotaged by a total absence of script. This and the inevitable but inevitably disappointing CGZ (Computer Generated Zombies) means that the film has missed a trick.It is thoroughly coherent and holds out a credible olive branch of hope to the audience at the close. We'll have to wait for John Hillcoat's purported adaptation of Cormac McCarthy's The Road for a proper contemporary holocaust (small h) flick. 7.5/10
A beautifully prepared and rendered film, evocative and seductive. It's also a little difficult to follow exactly what's going on. However it's a highly impressionistic work and the basic plot isn't the highest priority.Essentially, the film is a romance but played out at a chaste distance. All the connections and assumptions of the lovers are played out in their minds. Kar Wai gives us key occasions in multiple perspectives and slow motion. In this way he stresses the intensity of a scene but at the same time question whether it happened at all. As the final surtitle of the film reads: 'As though looking through a dusty window pane, the past is something he could see but not touch'.More importantly, the film looks sumptuous. The grainy, toxic-hued depth to the picture is intended to evoke the 60s in which the drama plays out. It fails to subsume the beautifully presented Maggie Cheung slinking through each shot like a nylon-clad gazelle in myriad Cheong-San dresses. Her modernity chimes with Tony Leung's slick Rat-Packster look but shines most brightly against the tawdriness of the old Hong Kong backstreets and its seedy, ubiquitous misogyny. The soundtrack pitting Western easy listening against a bucolic and soulful viola theme perpetuates this meeting of traditions and the only satisfactory but bitter end to the affair. 6/10
This latest - last? - film from Polanski is an adaptation of Robert Harris' tight-to-Blair political thriller-allegory. It's based on Blair but that's not really the point; this film isn't looking to indict our politicians in the same way that the recent Green Zone was.It's a neat plot with all sorts of little tributary plots spraying off from the main whodunnit-type thrust. There are also one or two odd red herrings - they're stylistic things, like the note at the book-signing denouement, filmed in Hitchcock-homage close-up. He keeps you interested and guessing, if not who-did-it, then what's-next. I don't like the detail of much of the dialogue and feel the director's hand on much of the delivery which can get bumpy.The cast is very good. As The Pianist demonstrated, Polanski's his own man as far as casting goes but he usually comes out in credit; Kim Cattrall and Tim Preece are winning gambles. I thought McGregor was back to something like I'd expect him to be, effecting not only a good nuanced accent but just the right level of naiveté. Olivia Williams is particularly good, really natural in front of the camera. She's going through a purple patch of roles at the moment, what with An Education. The effective score is by Alexandre Desplat, a composer yet to really come back to the level he achieved with Birth or Syriana. But then this isn't quite the same level of film. 5/10
This is a competently acted and reasonably well-assembled film. I am quite a fan of all the actors that find themselves sat around the table as the Presidential inner circle: I have a semi-Pavlovan response to Bruce McGill in particular - if his name's on the credits, keep watching.Like other Tom Clancy plots, this is credibly but not confusingly complicated. Layered, I think, is a better term. The film takes a significant turn for its third act, which I won't mention here. However a related aspect of the film is its scale, which I fear over-dilutes the impact of the thrills. Kubrick managed this rather better (in Dr Stranglove) by keeping people, more or less, in rooms and relying more on a fine script than on accurate styling. Still, there are some super aerial shots, particularly one - which you can tell director Phil Robinson is very pleased with - of an American delegation driving across icy Russian wilds in the sun.I couldn't help but remember what Alfred Hitchcock had to say about his own Sabotage when it came to dealing with the threat of bombing in public though. 5/10
For the first hour its a bit clunky, actually. It doesn't seem to be setting much up, beyond a general sense of Melanie Daniels' social unsuitability.But then in a squall of action the drama takes flight (sorry x 2). The latter half of the film centres entirely around the intermittent and inexplicable attacks of gulls and crows around the bay town or Bodega.The technical accomplishment of putting the aggressive, squealing flocks in the same frame as the cast, both on location and in studio is impressive - it never seems less than authentic. No CGI here. The range of shots, diving in and out of wide and close gives great scope to the story and provides the same perspective as the birds themselves, without forcing the allusion. Hitchcock borrows from the Odessa steps sequence of Battleship Potemkin for attacks on the street leading to the bay. A hoary spinster denies the possibility of the plague - a mother identifies its irrational source. As in all Hitchcock, these tropes can seem a little forced, but it matters not in the excitement of it all. Later, the second of two bedroom doors, like a forbidden door of Bluebeard's Castle, seals that elusive symbolism.Tippi Hedren is well cast as Melanie the twisted heroine, scratching after redemption through the provocation of the good. Jessica Tandy is a well-judged lightning conductor for the whirl of rudderless femininity, for which the birds are part parallel, if not metaphor. Suzanne Pleshette as the unrequited schoolmistress is an excellent third apex in this confused but attractive triangle of women. Rod Taylor is also fine. Outstanding 8/10
... or, 'things to do in the cinema when you're bored'. Actually it's not that bad, thanks to a sympathetic turn from Andy Garcia and a top-end frightener from Christopher Walken as an implacable, heartless mob baron. Jimmy 'The Saint' and his crew mangle a job as payment in lieu for a debt bought by The Man With The Plan (Walken - no paucity of silly names in this film). The consequences are set in stone and the five man crew have no hope.Given this dramatic cul-de-sac the film isn't a total disaster. Buscemi and Christopher Lloyd are predictably neurotic, owning the screen and setting up Garcia for a more lyric end to the film. Garcia's performance is lovely, melancholy but good humoured - and from beginning to end. The film, which also has it's fair share of serious violence, doesn't deserve it really! Fairuza Balk fulfils her ship-in-the-night role as Lucinda well enough. 4/10
In retrospect the prologue really sets the tone. We see Costners's Robin in a violent escape from captivity after Crusading: it's supposed to be an action packed kick-off and some backstory to explain Morgan Freeman tagging along as a grateful counterweight to the impetuous, Christian, white Robin Hood.More to the point much of the film is very 'English' with ruddy-faced fun, derring-do in place of real action and a suggestion of something slightly mysterious and Celtic.What Costner's Robin Hood brings is some basic big-screen romance and action, which he does terribly well, and frankly the whole thing works beautifully. The magnificently crackers Alan Rickman turns out to be a super, comic-malevolent bonus (and I have a soft spot for Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio, so it's all good). Wretched song though... 7/10
ossia: It Never Rains Put It Pours. This multi-thread wedding romance is a rich feast of culture and drama, fun and tragedy. Even if the thought of a big Indian party as the basis for a film leaves you cold, you can't help but sucked into the stresses and revelations that such an event inevitably churns up.Mira Nair handles the whole melange expertly. The acting is very good - the one performance I was nonplussed by at the beginning, Vijay Raaz's PK Dubey, turns out to be an affecting comic and romantic heart of the film. Beside him is the decorous housemaid of Tillotama Shome, the bride Aditi (glowing Vasundhara Das) and her parents, two actors who I would not be surprised to discover are Indian acting aristocracy, Naseeruddin Shah and Lillete Dubey. Not sure about eating marigolds though. 8/10
As Mirror progresses it becomes more difficult. It presents scenes of intrigue and surreality - but doesn't go on to explain them. It reveals itself increasingly, like a memory becoming clearer - but then that memory holds no more account than when it was out of focus.Tarkovsky's film is unapologetically subjective, making conventional promises in its wonderful (post-title) opening scene. Notably this sequence - the well-matched beauty of countryside and young mother stirred by an anonymous passing man - is crowned with the film's key motif, a sudden tide of wind. This is not Tarkovsky offering content - clues or players. This is simply a key selection of the manner in which he will go on to present a very personal reflection on a Russian life, such as his might have been. The wind is like a the tidal penumbra of memory, threatening to wash away each freshly precipitated thought. As such, the film continues in honest scenes and sequences where the transitions, tracking shots, longeurs and peripheral figures are as much content as the drifting narrative and characters. Within 20 minutes I'd made the decision to watch the film a second time without subtitles which are only intrusive. I'm not even convinced by Arseny Tarkovsky's poetic voice-over or some of the music (the choral Bach, mainly).It is unquestionably cinematographic balm, with a focused central performance from Margarita Terekhova. I do get the impression that a little knowledge of 20th century Russian history is of benefit though to give one some sort of parametric grounding. 6/10
Great high concept, promising cast & director, total flop.Really, 2/3rds of the movie should make itself. The first act is Clarke Kent/Lois Lane re-written, the second a gift to the comic scriptwriter with even a scintilla of imagination. Both this wind-up & let-it-rip are comprehensively mangled, poorly written, scrabbling to make jokes. The final 1/3 is snatched at but this hastened close is a small mercy.I think that Uma Thurman needs better projects than this - I though Prime showed that she has a light, urban-comic touch - but Wilson and Izzard simply come up short. Anna Farris and Rainn Wilson are better suited to this genre although it only just shows. Reitman should be hiding in shame. 2/10
It's an odd film but still satisfying when it finishes more than 2 1/2 hours later. It's clearly part of a contemporaneous cultural tension, with modern themes hammering away under its surface. On the one hand are the formal, slow-burning, whodunnit procedural and the parochial, honest everyman which Jimmy Stewart had monopolised for more than a decade by this point. On the other is a new, equivocal view of the American war hero and the rise of feminism and unveiled sexuality. Above all, this film is not about the whodunnit. The advocates may be more or less traditionally defined pro- and an-tagonists but lead an investigation of a murder which, like a car trying to get out of a ditch, becomes more muddied the more it gets worked over.There is a clear outcome. Preminger's too sensible a director to have left the end open. Everywhere else though, there's a real sense of moral flux. The film in toto is floated on a super, varied jazz score by (cameo-making) Duke Ellington; the tone of the whole movie is set with an opening location dolly shot and that music unconnected to the character or the story's purpose, but something more world worn and elusive. 7/10
This was better than I thought it would be. That's not much of a recommendation. However, the opening was so busy, overlaid, multifaceted, even cartoonish that I worried that the austere finesse of Fitzgerald's novel (such as I remember it) would be submerged in the MSG of CGI and Luhrman's modernist conceptualising.Well, actually, the use of contemporary music and even dance is very thoughtfully applied. The drama is period-designed with only tweaks - colour, editing, the vernacular of language and movement - extending a hand to the young audience of today.The story is told straight, if laboured and over-egged (easy trimming would remove 10 mins with absolutely no loss) and that consistent, focused narrative carried one through the film if all else seems gaudy or long-winded.Leo DiCaprio is very good, if not at his best; Carey Mulligan and Tobey Maguire equally watchable, if not always operating in the highest gear. Joel Edgerton is a super, flawed everyman. But the quiet star of the cast for me was Elizabeth Debicki as Jordan Baker, the quintessence of Luhrman's approach to old-new period styling. She's a strikingly beautiful woman with some considerable acting ability. Resembling the young Kristin Scott Thomas in looks and cool understatement, I felt her only issue was how to maintain parity among a cast all a good two inches shorter than her. A find.I have no idea how this film relates to the novel, in all its complexities, grand scope and philosophy but I was sufficiently diverted for an evening (though i won't want to see it again). 5.5/10
This is a super concept for some genre-hopping fun. Romain Duris - the eponymous Heartbreaker - makes a living by splitting up unsuitable couples, inserting himself as a better option with a Mission Impossible- style backup team in the background. The opening Moroccan mark is a super pre-title example and a montage of subsequent 'work' leads us into the film proper: persuading Vanessa Paradis that Andrew Lincoln is a bit boring for her.OK, here we hit two problems. First, with the greatest of respect to Andrew Lincoln, Vanessa Paradis would hardly need a scam to come between her and an accomplished small-screen British cutesy-actor. Secondly, Paradis is so chic that the comedy simply bleeds away and the whole thing gets a bit soppy. It even loses its way - its unclear at the end to what extent the hustler Lippi was being played at his own game by a concerned father. Still, it's entertaining, not least because of the super support of Julie Ferrier and François Damiens as Lippi's team of Melanie and Marc and the irresistibly brazen slap(per)stick of Héléna Noguerra's Sophie. 5/10
The chief appeal of this extraordinary cartoon is its wealth of imagination after the initial conceit. It rains food. What does one do next? Old truths meet wild & impossible conjecture in a geeky alternative to the superhero action cartoon. It's great fun.The speed of cartoons is one of their selling points; much more than the incongruity of steak or sushi falling from the sky, the entertainment of Cloudy is in the speed at which the protagonists react to the force of sci-fi enhanced nature. It never gets too serious though, the rushing around concentrating on slapstick. The voice work is super and the cartoon edited sharply to the visuals. 6/10
This not-particularly-involving-drama is well-cast and has a rather good script but Francis Ford Coppola has done his best work now. It doesn't help that he tries to articulate emotional episodes 'through the medium of dance' in sequences that don't measure up to the ballets already name-checked, The Red Shoes being the obvious elephant in the room.The narrative has a considerable twist towards which it can wind up. Unfortunately, the breezy manner in which the characters circle one another, combined with the coming-of-age/road trip sensibility of the film (the beautiful Maribel Verdú of car-trip flick Y Tu Mamá También overbalances the story occasionally) mean that we have as hard a time believing the reveal as the disabused principal.The wonderful Klaus Maria Brandauer is wasted. I always enjoy watching Vincent Gallo and his performance is excellent - I kept asking myself why he seemed rather more 'on the leash' than elsewhere. However, his work is also boxed ineffectively in the final showing. 4/10
Meadows has a super eye for detail, not only with his production's art design which is impeccable (I loved the L-plate on Combo's car) but also in the jutting rhythms and cadences of the dialogue. The cast seem thoroughly at home in the script, surely improvising a fair bit of it. Thomas Turgoose as the 12 year old Shaun is as able as any of the older cast and manages a wonderfully composed performance, especially in ultra close-up, a shot Meadows likes to use. For the first act there's low-level dipping and diving as we're shown the boy trying to grow up on an estate with his Mum: frustrations, scuffles, unlikely friendships. Then Stephen Graham (an actor probably best known as 'scummy man' from a pop video) turns up, galvanising the drama with his radicalised Combo.This is where Meadows comes into his own, marshalling performances that change the temperament of the film and showing the complexities of the young men's easily curdled insecurities. Meadows obviously has a certain affection - a nostalgia - for his youth which he doesn't want to throw out with the filthy bathwater of parochial racism. Clarity is brought to this murkiness. I'm pleased to see though that Meadows is clear about the confusion of the character's age and the trials of living in central England in 1983 are at the root of the warped logic of the thugs. This is no apology, although there is pity. I also liked Frank Harper's short turn as Lenny, a regional National Front boss, beautifully pitched at the edge of illiteracy. 6/10
Of the number of spoof versions of cinema's most famous franchise, Casino Royale has to be the most expensive and least edifying. There are a few things to recommend it: David Niven actually succeeds in giving the impression of a wartime spy of the highest breeding and provides a straight backed chap for the jokes to bounce off; Ursula Andress has a more significant role than in that of Dr. No, and she excels in it; and...... no, actually that's it. There's nothing else to redeem this mess, not even the surfeit of beautiful women flushed through the frame, like the body count in a latter-day John Woo picture. The free-wheeling script is simply mad and rather dull. The final edited melange makes absolutely no sense. The final fifteen minutes of the film makes Austin Powers look sober (Austin Powers clearly lampoons this film rather than the Bond franchise direct) and would be best watched when high. Even the celebrity cameos are wasted - although I did find it fascinating that Ronnie Corbett has a role. 2/10
A handsome and frankly rather pessimistic conspiracy thriller which owes a fair debt to the new-masculinity of a film such as Bullitt. Warren Beatty's maverick small-time reporter becomes convinced he's on the trail of an assassination recruitment outfit and attempts to infiltrate himself.Pakula's style is a strange, just-about-workable conflagration of a highly economical script, delivered in terse exchanges but interspersed with moody, unconventional and occasionally breathtaking shots. The idea is to unsettle and build tension, although I have to admit I sometimes found this technique overstretched: the sequence with the Clockwork Orange style montage designed to initiate newcomers to the Parallax Corps. was overlong and drama-less.Beatty is very good, managing a reasonable balance between imperishable good looks and rock and roll insouciance. The supporting cast are all fine, well-integrated into the verité aesthetic. I liked much of Michael Small's score too. 7/10
On the surface, another entertaining, zippy Guy Ritchie flick. Ritchie has a bigger target in his sights though. Combining elements of the Usual-Suspects-whodunnit and the self-examining nu-mobster established by The Sopranos, he takes aim at modern internal conflict and warped sense of importance in men.And, though you might be hard pushed to see it, he fairly succeeds. There's plenty to obscure this. The opening title aphorisms are repeated ad nauseam. The hectic, split-personality cross-editing is undermined with poorly-scripted ego vs super-ego dialogue. There's also a curious absence of dovetailing the considerable humour Ritchie generates with the serious issues he's addressing. And the animated inserts are entirely unnecessary.However, we are gifted some memorable sequences, extraordinary characters and some good acting from Ray Liotta, a geyser of both humour - comedy - and horror. Ritchie has a wonderful sense of visual vernacular, using images with such economy and precision as to expose the gross surfeit of his rather more plain script. 5/10
A not entirely effective but nonetheless funny polemic satire on the Iraq war dossier debacle. This is essentially The Thick Of It: The Movie, a feature length version of the acrid-hilarious TV satire on the New Labour culture of spin, i.e. government manipulation of the news. I would love to have seen more of the actual defining event in this respect, the David Kelly affair but the film doesn't get that far.In fact the film doesn't really get anywhere in terms of conventional satire, preferring to keep it's all-seeing eye on the characters rather than their position. It demands a lot of trust from the viewer.I liked the cast and their characters - I think that Tom Hollander is excellent as the hapless careerist Cabinet Secretary entirely at the mercy of everyone else. Peter Capaldi's bile-barking Scot is good and has some of the best lines (although many of those lines are overcooked for the sake of the laugh - rather like the Richard Curtis who is the but of one such joke). Ganolfini is a stroke of genius casting and adds glamour to an otherwise TV-fettered film. 6/10
I thought Cate Blanchett had pipped Gwyneth Paltrow to the Oscar post in the Elizabethan drama face-off (i.e. this vs Shakespeare In Love). She's quite magnificent, absolutely plum in the vortex of all those different takes on the famously flame-haired daughter of Henry VIII with girlishness, stature, frailty, beauty, irascibility, steel and wit.She needs to be on top of her game as the support cast didn't turn up for the free lunches by any means. Christopher Ecclestone has a perfect home for his nostril-flaring, ill-concealed belligerence and Geoffrey rush is perfect as his doppelgänger. Josepeh Fiennes is the hapless, naive lover - both Rush and Fiennes can both claim some sort of honour for having worked opposite Blanchett and Paltrow to such considerable effect. The rest of the cast are fine although I wasn't so sure about the French imports (Ardant and Cantona) despite their sincere efforts. England, the tacet character, is beautifully captured by Shekhar Kapur. 7/10
We had to wait until Jonathan Glazer put together Sexy Beast for a really pungent ex-pat mockney-thug characterisation (Ben Kingsley's psychotic Logan). Nonetheless, Terence Stamp is always a strong presence on the screen, not least vocally. Perhaps his task is a bit earnest in this revenge drama - perhaps the plot a mite complex.Well, Peter Fonda isn't much help by not being particularly convincing in his baronial role (in the excellent Ulee's Gold he had to summon resolve, not menace). Soderbergh's to blame I think. He's tried to tell the story plainly and it's not really worked in a corner of the world that had been turned on its head by Guy Ritchie. 4/10
This is indeed a return to form of sorts for Nick Cage, inasmuch as Herzog gifts him the sort of role in which he excels. It's half Leaving Las Vegas, half Face/Off. There's plenty more besides Cage to enjoy as well, with Eva Mendes showing some range, Herzog playing with digital photography and New Orleans proving a totally unique backdrop.Most of all I appreciated the effort to make a grown up, modern noir although I don't think it quite gels. There's none of the developmental crash-n-burn/catharsis that would melodramatise a similar project into an early yawn. I think Herzog is probably quite close to David Cronenberg in this respect. However, Herzog's inconsistency with this approach is exemplified by the ending, seeming to make a point or resolve those issues which have been worn lightly elsewhere. The criminality is really a MacGuffin (to use the Hitcockism) and the real story isn't told with enough consistency to make it tell. 6/10
A high watermark of American serial TV drama. The West Wing's considerable success can be put down to many factors. Prima inter pares of them is the idea: to play out political drama in soap-style relationships, with the formality and high integrity of one illuminating and affecting the informality and willfulness of the other and vice versa. On paper the conceit looks straightforward enough. Yet to engagingly balance the melodrama of relationships and the processes of government takes constant vigilance and invention.So the script - and the research that informs and reinvigorates it - are very fine. Add acting of a similarly premium consistency, and production values which are high and innovative and the product looks unassailable. Indeed I believe it is - has there been a better television drama anywhere in the world, ever? 9.5/10
There were no belly-laughs for me in this Alan Partridge feature, though, line for line, the film must have a conspicuous density of jokes. It is a funny film which, like all the Alan Partridge franchise, pokes a great deal of fun at laughable parochialism without the out-and- out stab of urbane snobbery. Steve Coogan's observation of his own principal character is still right on the rails, an ego inflated beyond the reality of his circumstance, shown in small detail: the title sequence, Alan singing along to anonymous MOR on the way to work, is particularly funny as he wears driving gloves.Many familiar characters also reappear. Felicity Montagu's Lynn has a truly extraordinary moment of transformation and Sean Pertwee's station- owner is a fine turn in grist to Alan's mill of self-importance. The ensemble is great, not least as Alan's humour is in response (even to his own malapropisms). However, the sketch origins of the show are rather plain in the number of picaresque moments which seem surplus to the narrative. All in all, an amiable matinée 5/10
A most wonderful film, frightening, charming and absorbing. Lang's brilliance isn't simply about images recognisable even in latter-day films such as the (accurately) oft-cited Blade Runner but also in the astonishing technical invention and accomplishments that go with that imagination. The light show that illuminates the transformation of Machine Man or the surrealist collage of eyes, as another mob builds a frenzied homogeneity, are memorable. My favourite is the feverish lust of the Yoshiwara garden partygoers inter cut with Feder's own chaste but no less powerful delirium. Brilliant.Even the form of the film is a novelty, Lang giving its three acts symphonic movement titles. Music plays a very significant part in this film (not least as it is not a 'talkie') and the original score by Huppertz and Korzeniowski - complete with warped appropriation of the Marseillaise in the final revolutionary act - is excellent. The Strauss of Salome is invoked in the central Intermezzo act in which the sex is used as a political opiate, in knowing contradiction to the more Viennese Strauss of the opulent opening act. There's next to no Wagner... although the story often has large chunks which bear more than a passing resemblance to Parsifal, with Maria as a Kundry figure pressed into diabolical sexual manipulation by an insidious outsider (Rotwang) only to be saved by the naive and all-German hero Feder. We even get a proto-Christian transformation scene (in the catacombs) complete with holy grail. The point is, the narrative has epochal resonance for all its modern retelling.The acting is the most dated aspect of the project with a lot of hand posturing. That said the commitment of the cast is ferocious, throwing themselves at the expressionism of the drama, action and sex. Brigitte Helm secures herself an immediate, immutable place at my personal high table of silent acting (alongside Louise Brooks) for her alternately compelling and caustic assumption of two opposing roles.The grand star though are the set designs. These Vorticist assemblages, relevant to both the Biblical and Futurist tranches of the story, can be seen not only in the Minority Report- type backdrops of latter-day films but also in the contemporary painting of Tamara de Lempika and the writing - though not the philosophy - of the American objectivist Ayn Rand. It strikes me as not in the least fanciful that such a pungent film could have seeded such diverse, forward-looking art. 9/10
The sequel to Meet the Parents, Meet the Fockers raises the main gag from the first film to it's title. This also portends to be the high point of the wit of the thing... but I do it a disservice. This is a sunny film which has its fair share of toilet humour - literally - but only once threatens to overdo it (with a sex therapist parents joke).I find Ben Stiller a perpetual disappointment, as I think he's really good and always lets me down, and this is no different. However, the trio of older principals (sorry Blythe Danner but De Niro, Hoffmann and Streisand take up just too much charisma space) walk off with the fun they're having in this film. Just the sort of thing to show late on New Year's eve when no-one's really watching the telly... 3/10
A quick, funny coming-of-age matinée romp appealing to the underdog aldolescent in us all. It functions, in effect, as a vehicle for Justin Long who has subsequently erupted onto our screens in the fourth Die Hard via PC vs Mac ads, Dodgeball and The Break Up. He's funny, earnest and young - a big career ahead.A town's worth of college wannabes find a fake website Bartelby (Long) has set up to delude his judgemental parents and descend on the 'college' like it were a short notice Facebook party. Lewis Black summises the anarchic philosophy as a stand-in Dean - Long's delinquent friends provide support for the subterfuge and consequent appeal to grander traditions of education and friendship (Adam Herschman deserves special mention for his never-flagging slapstick contribution). Well executed, feelgood and instantly forgettable. 4/10
A competent film from Claudel but infuriatingly tangential. The film has a number of themes which fizz off each other like energetic conversation. Claudel's problem is that he neither comprehensively initiates the plot strands; neither does he bring those started to a point.I know that often films are made in this way to get the audience to exercise and then examine the fruit of their own imagination but it doesn't work here. Too much substance is left to chance.The acting is fine. Posters across London have been screaming 'career-best performance from Kristin Scott Thomas'. She's good but to this CEO of the ennui-on-screen club her trademark emotional stonewalling is too inflexible. You can see her trying to grade in a tapered 'thawing' during the film but she is not helped by Claudel's capricious pruning of the narrative. Elsa Zylberstein is also good but the best acting comes from the unaffected charm of Lise Ségur as the 9-yr old P'tit Lys. 6/10
You notice two things about this movie. The music and the heat. Scorsese's use of contemporaneous rock and pop music really gives the already zippy film a kick and simultaneously subverts a lot of the assumptions one is tempted to make. But music or no, this film is positively filthy with raw energy.Key to this is the unhinged performance of Robert de Niro - one can see so many films of his where disingenuous bonhomie barely manages to conceal and amplify menace and feral rage. Here he's crowbarred the familiar into the attitude of an unreconstructed adolescent. It's gripping. Keitel's character is almost exactly the opposite, a visionary, hyper-moral, modern Italian-American almost absent-mindedly fighting a battle against the claustrophobic reality of 70s Manhattan. A great - surprisingly compassionate - double act. 7/10
The first 10 minutes aren't particularly auspicious. There's a lot of proto-male banter and over-the-top misogyny, but strangely it doesn't seem particularly satirical. I almost gave up at the possibility that the film could be predicated on the actual mind-set of such foul men.But I'm glad I persevered. The film turns out to be an ensemble piece, the men Andy's working with to be much more than a device. Apatow/Carrell have also cast some terrific actors throughout - there are often dead-end scenes which have obviously been written just to make best use of an actor (like Gerry Bednob) or because they have improvised material that seems just to good to waste (all of them, although I bet Jane Lynch made herself more screen time in this way). The only clunky casting is Catherine Keener, who seems at odds to it all somehow.Carrell is very good - although not great. His stock in trade is to allow it all to happen around him but it can sometimes be a bit blank. But I liked the script very much and the characters that were created with and around it are enough to recommend the film. 6/10
I enjoyed this film hugely, although for its detail, rather than an overall impression, which was lacking. It's inevitably a little incoherent - with so many interesting characters and stories to be played out, Attenborough has tried to fit in too much. For example, much though I loved the sequence(s) with James Caan all of them could have been ditched with no diminution of the film in toto.The acting is consistently of a high standard. Bogarde, Hopkins, Connery, Caine (inconspicuously brilliant), Fox and even the bittersweet underroles of Ullman and Olivier are all intensely rendered. All the supporting cast are fine as well.For me, the star of the show is the way the film is assembled. Attenborough manages to get a clarity and realism to his shots which only accentuate the mechanised brutality of the violence of this war. So much would be vetoed by a studio these days because of budget and conseqeuntly rendered pointless with over-romanticised and cartoonish CGI. Normally I'd baulk at the length and volume of the action/conflict sequences. However, the breadth of the films intention needs them to retain its proportions, in scale of both operation and violence.Spielberg remains the master non pareil in this genre - both Saving Private Ryan and Schindler's List have a great sense of how and when to build climaxes in the cinematography. But I also like this more plaintive, picaresque approach to constructing a motion picture, closer to reconstruction than the melodramtic artifice of Spielberg. It can be just as affecting, and I found it so. 6/10
Not Ron Howard's finest hour, by any means. This fuzzy biopic of Nobel-prizewinning mathematician John Forbes Nash Jnr spends an outrageously long and soppy exposition grasping helplessly for some sort of purchase on a real story. Jennifer Connelly and a bequiffed Russell Crowe (reprising his macho-geek chemist Jeffrey Wigand from The Insider) fail to create anything unique although, to be fair, they do try. Ed Harris is, as always, competently Machiavellian.What's wrong? I think Ron Howard has a great gift for taking the familiar elements of movie storytelling and working them up afresh. The magic simply hasn't happened this time. Instead of being led through a series of dramatic doors we're left waiting at each threshold for the film to catch up. The conspiracy thriller that follows shifts up a gear but is also by numbers. Dull. 2/10
During the junkets, Sofia Coppola made quite a fuss over the prototype soundtrack that had been assembled with a view to making this film. One thing this languorous, groping movie does have is an appropriate soundtrack that marries both Coppola's aesthetic and the period court culture.What it does not have is a clear idea of its purpose. Coppola's methods are whimsical and trusting but this film doesn't generate the same results as the taught, scripted Virgin Suicides and has too much narrative gravity - it's historically bound - to become another organic meditation such as Lost in Translation.Consequently there are beautifully composed tableaux that float on a story that... well, that's floating along itself. For example, Coogan's satellite character is given space to develop where a narrative essential such as the King's political advisers are too marginalised. It's like one man on a tricycle trying to pull along a huge, Versailles-sized carnival float.The acting is good and the cast responds well to the sketched-script methods. One unqualified gripe; the photography is too patchy. Held up against a gold-standard parallel period piece like Barry Lyndon, bits of Marie Antoinette look as if they had been shot on a camera-phone. 4/10
Jennifer Grey seems the unlikeliest of romantic leads and that's probably the reason why this beloved film is such a sure-fire hit. It's all very well doing a version of Montagus and Capulets with sweeteners like dancing and schadenfreude-baiting Jewish society family tropes thrown in but there usually has to be an X Factor.Swayze probably makes this film safe with his rugged, post-Travolta moves and temperament but its being won over by this curly-mopped Penelope Pitstop teen that brings the dream in reach of the impressionable market. The super (dated? perhaps 'immortalised') soundtrack helps and of course the cunning conceit of setting the film in a resort away from day to day life altogether finesses the fantasy. 7/10
There's some fairly good acting - Barry Foster's Bob Rusk is classic 70s wannabe spiv - and some of the usual sidetracked humour (there's a great running gag whereby the chief detective's wife is a dreadful cook but is one step ahead of her husband in the case).It's the feel of the film that rankles though. It seems to be playing catchup with the contemporaneous social furore; the characters seem like grumpy old men and the women stuck at the threshold of the previous decade (baring all for the camera is not the same as characterising the zeitgeist). The editing is either laboured or indiscriminate (a pointless idea concerning what can be heard from outside the courtroom) and with one or two clumsily effected plot developments to try and up or at least retain the tension.There's one real gem in this period London-location film though. During the titles, a single, swooping shot approaching Tower Bridge from the East, you can see the Bankside power station - now the wonderful Tate Modern Art Museum - smoking away in all its former glory. 3/10
Hilarious. It's not always very lovely to watch - the screen is necessarily very dark a lot of the time, both to accommodate the computer graphics and the frightening, things that go bump in the night nature of the content. Hugh Jackman is super as the eponymous vampire-slayer, an antihero with a magnificent and never ending array of medieval-Bond type weapons (David Wenham does a creditable Q). Kate Beckinsdale runs around in a Bodice being just as implacable in the face of sharp-toothed nasties. I'm not sure if action really suits her - I didn't get on much with Underworld either. Richard Roxburgh is the prima rent-a-Balkan-baddie of the Noughties inter pares. There's a regular smattering of lines and sight gags to enjoy but the imagery's too complicated and frankly it's all a bit dull. 3/10
A classic heist movie with a twist (which, tautologously, makes this a film with a twist with a twist). In fact the script is excellent and Ridley Scott, unfortunately, churns it into something less effective, ably aided and abetted by the comic tourettisms of Nicholas Cage.Sam Rockwell plays Frank as the perfect sidekick to Cage's Roy, eager and with a better grip on the necessary limits of the humour. Alison Lohman is a charming, mercurial daughter to Roy. Throw in Bruce McGill as a mark and you don't want for a top-notch supporting cast.The problem is in the way Ridley Scott wants to tell the story. It's as if he's rather embarrassed about the subject matter - a man discovers himself to be a father and undertakes the role despite the contradiction of his job. However, the nicely played-out main con and the burgeoning love of fatherhood don't blend. They're not helped by some highly capricious film-making, taking its lead from Roy's neuroses. It's a very long first act. 4/10
An epic investigation of the blurred lines between life and the performance space, Les Enfants du Paradis is almost surmised within its first shot. Garance earns a dubious living allowing men to come and look at her naked. Yet the men can't quite see her - she sits in a barrel of water. All the while she looks at herself - her face - in a mirror. This unmediated self-examination whilst being risqué but not absolutely honest with others is examined across a handful of characters, beginning with a blind beggar who is not blind and finishing with an entire population adopting the character of one individual.It is also the nature of art - that in order to examine people one must take recourse to what might seem an unnatural technique. This is clear in the acting and mime of the two stages of the neighbouring theatres and underlined in the persistent transgression of the fourth wall. Most clearly and simply the two celebrated actors cover their faces with paint-as-mask to achieve greatness - white for the mime, black for Otello.The performances are powerful, if mannered for the time, with the exception of Arletty as Garance who manages to be arch and seductive but warm, haughty and fragile all at the same time, an unrepeatable modern performance. Though long, the film feels like it ought to be longer. 7/10
The only thing I found more bewildering than this toe-curlingly awful film was the idea that it had been based on a popular Broadway show. The succession of facile, lacklustre numbers are the theatrical equivalent of modern Christian worship songs; poetry-drained, market-moulded padding. The book is little better managing to fill two hours following a man who isn't doing anything.Although Fellini is never mentioned by name, this is clearly a film about the Italian director, not least as it apes the biographical scrutiny of his film 8 1/2. I haven't seen this film, but that's no issue - clearly the film is constructed for those who have only encountered the tropes of La Dolce Vita and 8 1/2 through endless, diluting re-appropriation. The apotheosis is the number 'Cinema Italiano', rendered as fashion show reportage behaving as a music video: exciting but telling us nothing either of Italian cinema or of Kate Hudson's relationship with Fellini/Guido.As I understand it, there is little to tell anyway. Guido shuffles through the film interacting with the women as if they are the manifestation of his will - after all this is what the film, with its solipsistic shuttling between the 'present' and the soundstage is about, when its not fetishising the women at a director's beck and call. Daniel Day-Lewis is a good figure for Guido, gamine, intense, stooping. If Marshall was more serious about making a good film he could have used this - unfortunately he needed more of a performer.Indeed the cast would have benefited from being stage performers transposed or the other way around. Instead we get an awkward mish-mash of stage (extras) and screen (stars) which scuttles the characterisation. This is all a pity as you cannot fault the professionalism of the extraordinary cast, particularly the contributions of Judi Dench and Nicole Kidman.I hope the ensemble had fun making this showy nonsense because I didn't have any sitting through it. 2/10
Which more-famous-than-it sci-fi thriller does Gattaca remind you of? Is it Minority Report? Maybe it's Total Recall? Really it's any number of these - and I'm sure it got recycled again by Michael Bay in The Island. Gattaca tries to set itself apart with it's production design and in-camera feel. It's a very stylish movie with very beautiful people (the subject matter of generic subjectivity demands that even if the studio hadn't). Ethan Hawke as Vincent is an above average lead, a little rougher at the edges and more desperate than Cruise/Willis/Schwarzenegger. Uma Thurman is his self-sacrificing partner and Jude Law was sufficiently perfect in this to bag a similar role in A.I. Oh, there you go, there's another one... 3/10
I got a bit bored. This was more through expectation - I was fairly enjoying a film that delivered more of the TV-series-same, but I needed something extra, which never materialised. Oh, and the final sequence got reassembled a decade later in the fourth Indiana Jones folly...So there it is. David Duchovny has the hunch he can't explain, the tortured scenes of existential cramp and petulance; Gillian Anderson treads the line between librarian-attractive and Duchovny's fingers-in- the-till social worker (to mix metaphors). The SFX are OK, although the look of the film is dated, even at 1998. You can miss it with a clear conscience. 3/10
A thoroughly entertaining film. Luc Besson has his own original eye for what was thought to have already been done. Jeanne d'Arc always seems to have been shot from a hitherto unexplored perspective. Into this he squashes comedy and melodrama as improbable but sparky bedfellows. Milla Jojovich is perfect for this directorial mania - polystyrene-brained naivete oscillates with shuddering fervour.Around this fascinating (if tomboyish) performance Besson builds a posturing coterie of French military. The nuances of their handling can be easily overlooked; there's a rhythm to how these brutish men sneer, then come onside and move away again. Tchéky Karyo's particularly good. I might even have had to admit liking French soldiers were it not for a balancing slew of loud-mouthed English knights.John Malkovich is of course a big draw on the poster, but it's unsubstantiated - Faye Dunaway blows him offscreen. Exemplary entertainment, if not factually irreproachable. 7/10
Three things recommend this Latest Marvel adaptation right out of the box. First is the direction, which prizes a bit of fun above all else and keeps things moving along (albeit in a post-Nolan fashion). Secondly Chris Hemsworth is a matinée idol without weakness. His character adjustment from comic-book to simply comic is seamless and earnest. His appearance sans shirt reminded me of Bard Pitt's turn in Thelma and Louise. He's got star potential. Third, the rest of the cast are similarly on board. This is down to the director, but its worth mentioning that the heavyweights - Hopkins, Elba, Skarsgård, the recently Oscared Portman are bringing themselves to a happy set. The only person I worried a bit about is Tom Hiddleston's Loki, reprising his restless, cuckolded turn from Wallander. It's exactly right, although you get the impression it's a bit forced, that he's trying harder than the others.Would that the designers and composer Patrick Doyle had tried hard. Actually, I can forgive the CGI technicians, who do a perfectly good job, but leave me cold with the less-than-2D designs (I saw the film in 2D out of choice). The costuming doesn't help - clothing and props look like the plastic from which they're made. The greatest sin though is in Patrick Doyle's functional but lazy, generic score. It makes the whole thing a jolly but familiar experience. 6/10
It's rare that actors get wider recognition and a hit in a single film. Even Tom Cruise needed Top Gun to become what he'd promised in Risky Business. The Mask is Jim Carrey's second stage rocket following Doolittle-on-drugs Ace Ventura and it's an almost unique example of animation finding it difficult to keep up with an actor. there's the same film-animation melange that characterised Who Framed Roger Rabbit? and the same simple, mad energy. There's nothing to appeal beyond the virtuosic visual shtick (and of course a host of now-famous one-liners being coined before your eyes). There is the first movie appearance of Cameron Diaz though - I'm sorry to say that whilst her appeal is unarguable and her role is prescribed, her performance tells you all you need to know about her subsequently average career. 4/10
This is a clever film by Walter Salles. I was a little concerned from the beginning that the film might be a bit flippant, concentrating on the adventures the two young men went in search of. Naturally there are plenty of entertaining episodes along the way - that's the nature of the road-trip both, the genre and in reality. Salles is clever though, turning the temperament of the trip slowly, incorporating the boys' experiences without bowing to earnest piety.This is particularly impressive given that much of the extra cast are undoubtedly co-opted locals. It would be easy to docu-dramatise the history and there are, surely, further contemporary political points to be made. Yet it stays on course and finishes with just the right sense of portence, including a strongly moving 15-second, three shot epilogue that ties it all together very nicely.Gael García Bernal is to Latin America acting what Leonardo DiCaprio is to the US - the leading man at the moment. He shows it in a well- balanced fervent show. Rodrigo De la Serna is a fine foil as the happy- go-lucky Alberto. There is no over-acting from others along the road: the only melodrama is that caught in Eric Gautier's camera - the snow on the mountains and the mist-shrouded lepers of the final hospice. Stirring, whatever you make of the consequent revolutionary's politics and actions. 7/10
It might not be a 4 star film really but Blazing Saddles must be one of the most riotously funny satire-farces I've ever seen. Political incorrectness was well and truly headed of at the pass in this spoof western in which a corrupt political puppeteer introduces a black sheriff to run down a town - only for the new incumbent to be a raging success.Gene Wilder is the big-name draw on the bill but Cleavon Little as sheriff Bart is by no means cowed by this comic titan as his buddy. The late Harvey Korman is on premium form as the dastardly Hedley Lamarr and Mel Brooks himself plays the ridiculous Governor, who everyone would have instantly assumed to have been a direct mauling of George W Bush had the film been released in the last five years. The jokes are often obvious but highly effective, either dispatched absolutely within the confines of their assumptive genre or tearing the same to shreds. Hilarious. 7/10
John Patrick Shanley's film is of his own successful stage play. Rather like Arthur Miller's The Crucible we are presented with a thriller with an ecclesiastical backdrop, where warped righteousness and power prevail in a moral fog. I have to say that on a first viewing, Shanley's film sells itself thinly. In a wonderful script he creates a vast penumbra of terrors (both ethical and social). Yet, by the close, none of these foibles or even the paranoia that they instigate has been really addressed. We do not know what has happened behind the scenes during the film, which is fine, but we need to have more about its fallout and assimilation. Sister Aloysius' final, crumbling coda is insufficient.Shanley could not have had a better ensemble advocate for this film. Philip Seymour Hoffman's Flynn is the antithesis of Meryl Streep's Aloysius; worldly, sensitive and vulnerable. Perhaps needless to say that tear the screen up with the intensity of their escalating confrontation - their restraint only focuses their resolve and ire. Amy Adams holds her own in this company.However, the deep, dark heart of the film is in Aloysius' conference with Mrs Miller (the mother of the boy around whom assumptions and accusations are spawned). This is a sequence of first-class cinema in which arguably the finest two women actors in America grasp at the evanescent poles of propriety, morality and social reality. Viola Davis was robbed of a Best Supporting Oscar for this performance, without question.The film looks rather stagey, as one might expect as Shanley has only got behind a camera once before. Nonetheless it looks fine (Roger Deakins has photographed it well) and Shanley wisely uses some light Hitchcockian touches (diagonal framing) to warm it up. Indeed I couldn't help thinking about I Confess, Hitchcock's masterful, entertaining adventure into the extremities of Catholic absolutism vs reality. This film is not that exciting - nor is it quite as forensic as The Crucible - but it is well-performed and impressive. 7/10
The film is exciting but largely because Fernando Meirelles has overlaid it with so much pizazz. It's very difficult to chart one's way through the corporate and political chicanery. The dialogue is fast and perpetually sidelined by post-produced diving about. Occasionally this is effective. More often than not it's distracting.Fiennes is very good indeed. In most films he plays his end-of-empire stalwart but manages subtle but comprehensive mutations just beneath the skin which can make him tough, psychotic or, as here, wet but transformed by love. I believed him. I also believed Weiss (as did the Academy) who's charming. I didn't believe their relationship though, which is rushed by Meirelles. Further safe casting occurs with Huston (cad), Postlethwaite (earthy shaman) and Nighy (scheming).Africa - Kenya - is shot very nicely, using the vibrant indigenous palette and the locals are seamlessly incorporated in improvised sequences on location (as one might expect of the director of City of God). I just didn't buy it though. 5/10
This is a very entertaining, twisty-turny sci-fi-mob flick. It gives Bruce Willis a chance to do what he does best all over again, oddly in a subordinate role. Other significant actors pop up throughout in a parallel tally of twists to the story. Brilliantly, the trailer really doesn't give even half of the film's coiled thought away. The whole things is full of ideas, thrills, a bit of fun, a bit of romance...... quite why it didn't quite knock me down then requires some attention. Pacing is an issue. Once the second act starts, the rush of ideas from the opening slows to a flow, and then to a dribble by the third. In the same manner as The Matrix, the philosophical weight begins to drag on the storytelling like gravity (The Matrix survives by being terribly serious from the outset, where this mixes in plenty of 'groovy'). It also leaves troublesome plot tributaries hemorrhaging sense off the screen. A pity.Joseph Gordon-Levitt is hugely commendable for not only essaying his role but also adopting familiar Bruce Willis tics in pursuit of that. The special effects are rather good but the editing of the film is its greatest asset in this respect. It will remind you of all sorts of things you will have seen but belongs to very few of them. 6.5/10
A dismal, hackneyed sci-fi cartoon - because, for all the often impressive motion capture graphics rendered in 3D, that's what it boils down to - that lays on the treehugging, eco-karma rhetoric thick.The technically impressive execution of the graphics in 3D makes for an intermittently fascinating visual experience. However, the downside to 3D (blurred images for certain seats in an auditorium, having to wear alien glasses for a stretch) is a considerable negative; and for all that Lord Of The Rings showed that motion capture has matured I still can't buy it. Certainly the exotic ecosystem, whilst clearly a perfectly good record of the production team's impressive imagination, is comparatively outdone by anything that the BBC & David Attenborough have produced over the last five years.The film itself is a melange of age-old stories. There is nothing new to be told in Avatar - and the old tale (immoral 'civilisation' creep, the undercover agent going native) isn't told in a fresh manner. It's amazing that a film can be so long and say so little. You'd imagine that a proportion of that time would be spent investing in the dramatic potential of relationships between characters, yet with the possible exception of Zoe Saldana's Neytiri (and Sam Worthington's marine Sully), it never comes to pass.I didn't stay to watch the much-trumpeted final battle, which can only have been more dull than the rest of it. Ultimately, a Titanic waste of money. 3/10
Difficult to fault. Victorian London is perfectly summoned in all it's admirable pomp and Hogarthian grime as a backdrop to this genius musical re-appropriation of Dickens. All the players are unbeatable. Mark Lester could so easily have been marginalised with so many pungent characters given great performances but gives as good as he gets - no blonde moppet he. That said, the quartet of rogues with which this film, musical and indeed story will forever be associated are magnificent. Ron Moody had played Fagin on stage before coming in front of Carol Reed's cameras. He is all things to all men, theatrical and utterly believable. Oliver Reed's Sykes is a monster and the original tart with a heart, Shani Wallis' Nancy will break yours. Top of my list though is the late Jack Wild as Dodger, the anti-Oliver, the template for scallywags ever since. The choreography is excellent. The singing is excellent. The photography is excellent. The supporting cast are excellent. Why on earth anyone cough-ahem-Polanski-nggrrh-cough would want to try and remake Oliver with this version extant is entirely beyond me. 9/10
More of the same. What's a sequel for? And why not? The first was brilliant and this isn't far off the mark either. Willis runs out his all-American outsider once more to save the innocent, the aviation industry - hell, the US itself.The new element to this film is the introduction of treachery. The baddies are on the inside. This plays well with the McClane character. Where he found himself a captive anti-hero, here he has no building to restrain him. This time the shackles are a mix of the 'race-against-time' and the 'enemy within'. The scale of the film is exploded. Yeah, metaphorically and literally.To make such a huge concept work requires a big 'ole cast. There's a less definite kingpin to #2 but I enjoyed William Sadler and John Amos, Hollywood stalwarts both. Willis is at his cynical wisecracking zenith. Chuck in Bing and Sibelius (!) and you've got 7/10
Tense and twisty, mixed-up and maddening, sweet despite omnipresent bitterness... Like many puzzlebox thrillers we are told the story piecemeal and with as many questions begged as answered. Guillaume Canet has a sure grip on the dripfeed of the story and the explosions of drama that cover the loose ends and conundrums - it never gets frustrating.The big draw of this film is the acting. There is a large cast with a grand nebula of microplots to play out (all pertinent and well-integrated into the main one). François Cluzet as the hunted widower Alex Beck burns up the screen with his lockjawed intensity - the release of his pain in the film's coda is very powerful. I'm a big fan of André Dussollier who smoulders away throughout the film like some sort of burdened oracle; more important is the police inspector played with dogged insouciance by Olivier Marchal, pawing through the fog to the truth (Kristin Scott Thomas takes a colourful but marginal role as a lesbian confidant).Ultimately the film is a complicated whodunnit - the exhilaration is in the reveal rather than any storytelling or character. It's handled with great assurance by Canet and, consequently, it's deeply affecting. 8/10
The story is told in two overlaid lines: the first is that of the present, where Elizabeth Olsen's Martha has escaped to her sister Lucy and Lucy's husband; the second, interleaved, tells the arc-story of her joining the group of self-sufficients from induction to critical misgiving.I love the photography of this film, which, in turn loves its subjects. For all the poverty of the group's situation, the pale linens and bucolic surroundings have plenty of crisp texture. Above all the intimacy of the group and the bodies of the women seem natural. There is nothing creepy about their closeness, nothing fetishistic about the voyeurism of the camera. Conversely, the wooden floors and bright white walls of Lucy and Ted's rental home seem clinical. No feet on the kitchen surfaces, for example.The duplicity of the picture's texture aside, what is Martha etc. all about? Not a metaphor for something else (i.e. no intellectual hiding here), this is a film simply about the story on the screen. Rather like in McQueen's Shame, we are surreptitiously introduced to - and not given answers to - questions about Martha's pre-group past, her family life. The group's leader suggests that she has run from an unloving family and there is nothing to contradict him. Certainly the relationship between Martha and Lucy is fragile, combustible. Though I fall on the side of the idea that Hugh Dancy is miscast as Ted, it could be to further extrapolate the idea of the outsider who can't really know what goes on in the family - or group - situation. In constructing this seductive nightmare (I'm not really selling it, am I?!) Sean Durskin is helped by a solid performance from Elizabeth Olsen and an entirely brilliant turn from John Hawkes as Patrick (playing a similar figure to that of his Teardrop in Winter's Bone but a very different character). Sarah Paulson is also very good as Lucy. Admirable film-making although it's a deep tissue massage of an art experience 7/10
This dispiriting but well-constructed drama has one of the most desolate principal sets of any similar film. It's as if one of the adventurous North London housing estate blocks that popped up in the 60s had been gutted but is still lived in. Matteo Garone takes a multi-plot approach to constructing his realist study of contemporary mafiana. There's the money collector, putting new life into the phrase 'don't shoot the messenger'; the maleducated adolescents who have watched Scarface too often; a gifted dressmaker, most worthy of the term 'respect' and starved of any of it; and the usual crowd of extras who will simply be bleeding bodies as the film progresses. What struck me was just how little this film has to offer anew in the face of any number of other previous fictional accounts of organised crime (in terms of content). It's as if no-one learns, which of course is the reason it continues. Garone's film is alert and critical though, if a little overlong, wringing pathos from the different situations in which, most of the time, the innocent are caught up despite their best efforts otherwise. 6/10
Despite its convincing (and occasionally frightening) espionagey twists it still contrives to be a fairly stock thriller. If you've seen Mission Impossible or, of course, Spy Game you've seen much of this film.What really makes this it is the extraordinary, first class cast. Robert Redford almost makes it look too easy. That's because he's alongside the likes of Sidney Poitier, Dan Ackroyd and David Strathairn (he of Good Night And Good Luck almost-Oscar fame) all doing stalwart, professional Hollywood duty. This means entertaining. They're serious, dramatic and glibly comic when it is meant to be funny.The result is a slick and entertaining movie, despite its following the thriller rails. Well made popcorn accompaniment. 5/10
There's a coda. Even if it doesn't completely hang together, or even exonerate the somewhat sonnambulant prior 80 minutes, it does at leas have a go at making something greater of it. Me, didn't get it. I was plugged into the 1990s aesthetic - the opening 5 minutes of the film are its best bit, possible the best excerpt of the whole 'Cornetto Trilogy' - and appreciated the various asides as they came and went. Nonetheless, the fun is choked a little by the simple passage of time: where Shaun & Fuzz have parody on their side, there is simply too much to take on in a film that has a second decade to trawl through.Nick Frost comes out of this best by being a solid guy driven to anger in legitimate, credible increments. The others are wet, tropes; it takes some doing to scale down a trio of actors to less than their potential. Simon Pegg, like the film he is leading, is taking on too many roles.I should just rent The Wackness instead. 4/10
I have to say that I did laugh a fair bit in this mad sci-fi Western (a small genre with only Back To The Future III and Westworld for company!). This is largely due to the charisma of Will Smith and Kevin Kline, although the latter is not quite on form. Kenneth Branagh might have romped off as the one thing to remember this film for were it not for two things. Firstly I think he gets carried away and ends up not just a mad scientist but a rather demonic one. It becomes a bit rich for the mix. In this he's not helped by the look of the film, very dark and strangely coloured - no doubt a combination of design and the necessity of incorporating the computer graphics. The other issue is Salma Hayek, who, not for the first time, threatens to overbalance the film with her sex appeal. She's a card that Sonnenfeld overplays. Or maybe that's just me... 3/10
To be honest, we all knew it would be good, right? The buddy-movie approach that Guy Ritchie has brought what may now be referred to as a franchise works because of his leads. Additionally we are gifted the Moriarty of Jared Harris, who made his quirky British turn in Mad Men something much greater than it must have been originally. I'm also a sucker for Ritchie's editing methods which compress the action - or even stretch it out, with judicious slo-mo - in order to keep the narrative moving at an even pace.Above all what I appreciate about this film is the respect shown to the colossal historic backdrop against which the film is shot and on which its drama turns. The Great War is the greatest Shadow of the title, an inevitability whose scale and waste dwarfs all the violence of the shenanigans of the story. Ritchie seems to understand that. The confrontations with the industrialisation of armaments is not fetishised but rather shown in all its indiscriminate, matchless power. I was immediately reminded of Wilfred Owen's poem On Seeing a Piece of Our Heavy Artillery Brought into Action: 'Be thou slowly lifted up, thou long black arm/Great gun towering towards heaven about to curse.' Interesting, fun but very far from flippant, this is a super holiday film and a credit to its director. 7/10
In Source Code Duncan Jones has successfully applied his psy-fi, rabbit hunt sensibility to the new breed of thriller that Christopher Nolan has now long-established. There is a complicated science fiction back-logic to the story which, though explained, is not the reason for watching. Instead the suspense is in the dynamic playing of a number of plot strands simultaneously in a diced-up timeline. And, as this particular ride's hero Jake Gyllenhaal observes, it's different every time.In fact, Gyllenhaal may be a premium property leading man at the moment, and I like him a lot, but he's not the reason to watch the film. Nor are the cute Michelle Monaghan (actually just another passenger) or the less conventionally beautiful Vera Farmiga, both of whom are quite anonymous. Rather the film's conundrum-drama is driven by the puffing, preening, borderline certifiable operational commander of Jeffrey Wright. 'Chewing the set' may be hackneyed but he actually makes to take a bite out of a microphone at one point. The supporting ensemble is uniformly excellent, under no illusions that they are making anything other than an elaborate B movie.This message did not, however, get through to Chris Bacon or Don Burgess whose collaboration begins right at the top with exciting original orchestral thriller music accompanying spectacular aerial photography of Chicago. With respect to the well-orchestrated but, frankly, rote thriller that follows I'm not sure it ever fulfilled the promise of its titles. 6/10
Jules Verne this is not. However what it lacks in authenticity, it makes up for in wit and energy. Through Steve Coogan, Fogg becomes a dilletante buffoon who's pushed into the circumnavigation by his valet Passepartout (Chan). This conceit effectively doubles the number of antagonists standing in the travellers' way and gives ample opportunity for Chan to exercise his stock-in-trade martial artistry.These two adjustments make for a fresh story, albeit in a hackneyed matinée: all pratfalls and comic kung-fu. Along with a surprisingly effective love interest (Cécile De France) it all seems to hang together fairly well. It is possible to be put off by the surfeit of random cameos though. Kathy Bates and even John Cleese are good add-ons; Macy Gray and the pre-election-payday-popup from Arnie are ugly. 4/10
John Hillcoat's done a good job with this. Parts of the novel have been excluded and some things invented (one of these is very good indeed, one disappointing) but it's entirely faithful to the book - and perhaps, importantly, to how one might visualise it.Viggo Mortensen is reliably excellent as the father to a son, if not conceived then born during the early stages of civilisation's demise. Kodi Smit-McPhee as the boy himself bears an uncanny resemblance to Charlize Theron as his tragic mother and acts very well too. The film's great success is in highlighting the touching but strangely antagonistic relationship between the man and his boy. Clearly this is a love story, but it's a sustained exploration of the nature of tough love and how this gnaws at the edges of moral boundary lines. Most of all we see how the proximity of the man and the boy exacerbates their sense of isolation. The man cannot explain his fear to a child 'You're not the one who has to worry about everything!' he shouts. 'Yes I am!' comes the almost incredulous reply from the underestimated youngster.Most other roles are cameos, extraordinary through their brevity (Duvall's is the best) and Hillcoat manages them well with dialogue as grim and ascetic as the landscape. The final sequence is almost explosive in its (relative) optimism, as overwhelming as the final 3 minute epilogue to Janáček's opera Jenůfa, also celebrating salvaged life. 7/10
There are two parts to this movie. The opening twenty-five minutes set a new standard for the depiction of contemporary conflict in any situation and deserve to be appraised in its own right. Spielberg was careful to invest the sequence with solipsistic moments and shots that would recur later in the film so as not to have created something too distinct from the rest of the film. No Lohengrin prelude here.The consequent film has to meet the standard Spielberg has set himself - which it does, not least in am equally praiseworthy, formally symmetrical set piece at the opposite end of the film . Inbetween is an episodic chain of events as the youthful GI squad go looking for the Ryan of the title, trying to work out if the toughest battle is to be waged against Germans or existential purposelessness.Nothing is phoned in, not a performance, not an effect, not a shot. Tom Hanks could have won a third Oscar and the five that were snapped up (direction, cinematography, editing, sound and sound effects) were indisputable. In retrospect. I just remember being so lost in thought I nearly got run over coming out of the cinema. 9/10
The director, Christopher Nolan, knows what he's doing with this series now. If nothing else, The Dark Knight Rises sustains a constant momentum throughout its entire, substantial span. When there are speeches, the soundtrack drives the emotional dynamic forward. Moments of stillness do not always warrant static shots. There is, of course plenty of action. The Dark Knight Rises is not a boring film.That is not to say that it is an engaging one. In fact, I felt suspended outside it for long periods. Just as in attending an opera, I often relied on the action and the music to guide me through patches where I couldn't understand the language being sung. The mix for The Dark Rises is too loud and obscured. This is a stylistic decision but one that compromises the story. Nolan is clearly a director wanting to offer more than mood and twists. Concentrating on the manner of delivery of a more substantial philosophical background means that the discourse is neglected. I didn't hear what was being discussed much of the time, and consequently didn't have the opportunity to chew it over in the context of the film.This being the case those characters able to show some character shone through the murk. Anne Hathaway's Selina is a precious part of the film, offering more humour than sex appeal and providing some sort of connection between the ordinary people and the superheroes (let's call them that). Joseph Gordon-Levitt also pulls more than his fair share of weight. More Freeman and Michael Caine simply don't have the lines to squeeze in a laugh, let alone a wink to the audience. Tom Hardy does a reasonable job, given that you cannot see his mouth at any point in the film. Christian Bale is less sidelined than in the previous film but still labours against the brick wall of a development cul de sac.It may be sufficiently broad a film for its philosophical and dramatic themes but we were starved of the detail - length and weight is not the measure of riches. The idea that we might pick these up and better appreciate them on a second viewing is anathema. The best thing that can be said of this - the least good of all of Christopher Nolan's superb body of work to date - is that, in concluding the trilogy, it will allow him to return to making the thoughtful, self-generated projects by which we have all come to know him and his work. 5/10
An awe-inspiring film. It seizes you from the first wordless prospecting sequences to the warped and bitter finale. Day-Lewis delivers nothing less than his own Vito Corleone (of both the Godfather films). He finds the same brittle charm in his untiring, demonic capitalist that Marlon Brando wrung from omertà thirty years ago. Like the oil that runs soullessly through the film it's a black viscous performance that you are compelled to watch but leaves a slick on your conscience.Whilst Plainview's competitors exist largely in his own mind, he has one actual co-antagonist. Paul Dano's Eli Sunday is looking to monopolise the spiritual reserves of the boom town. It's a clever character for Anderson to insert: Eli's ambitious preacher is self-obsessed where Plainview is asset-obsessed and consequently makes the latter (in an Ayn Rand logic-twist) look virtuous. Dano is excellent, and insipid mirror for Day-Lewis/Plainview's petulant ambition.Astonishingly for such a prizefighter of a movie, that's it for the cast-of-note (save Dillon Freasier's well-taken Plainview Jr and an inconsequential Ciarán Hinds). Anderson's third integrated character may be said to consist of Johnny Greenwood's original score. The film's machinery, heat and fatalism are realised with Bartokian insistence, other-worldly quarter-tone tuning and the perpetual gravitation to woe. A almost over-effective modern counterpart to Morricone's sonic mirages for Sergio Leone, Anderson is obliged to fall back on the Brahms violin concerto for breath.The film is beautifully shot and like so many great movies echoes its forbears. We pass through the mobile paradise of Michael Winterbottom's The Claim and the arid technicolour of The Searchers; the fear and expectation of Heaven's Gate paralyses the faces of the massed extras. There are chips and splinters in the otherwise perfect veneer of the film's composition, but one can put these down as the natural detritus of virtuosic flair. 9/10
An awe-inspiringly silly sci-fi thriller which squeezes itself inbetween The Abyss and Deep Impact on the genre's library shelf. The earth's in grave danger because the core has stoppezzz... zzz... well, it hardly matters really. All we need is a double-pronged drama: a hazardous race against time; and a baddie, or at least an intractable difference in opinion. This film comes up with both, serving the first with imaginative conceits and CGI and the second with Stanley Tucci.Tucci is very important to this film. A grandstanding slimeball called Zimsky, he's hectoring, self-interested and very funny. The film makes no attempt to conceal his having a parallel agenda on the mission. Happily, though it plays out according to the studio handbook on such blockbusters Tucci never lets his character get boxed in by this. All the rest of the cast are very good, Eckhardt particularly matching Tucci in playing the film with his tongue in his cheek. Nicely designed and cut the film thrills and I can remember it just long enough to write this. 5/10
A rich and entertaining third screen yarn for Harry Potter. This one's a bit more human than the first two with further family ties making it into the grounds of Hogwarts. There's not a great deal to distinguish it from the first two, unless one is looking carefully for invariably wide-angled or pan+zoom shots.The principal trio of children impress and charm as ever. In addition to Alan Rickman's dependably terse Snape there's the new addition of Michael Gambon, a more earthy replacement Dumbledore. David Thewlis is the pick of the new additions - there are plenty of others to look out for from Emma Thompson wearing ashtrays on her face to Julie Christie running a pub. Even Ian Brown (yes, Stone Roses Ian Brown!) pops up in cameo.I was competently diverted and amused. 6/10
A premium New Line cinema title, perfect for Christmas. The production has all the invention and fantasy of Harry Potter. Dakota Blue Richards is arguably a better actor than Daniel Radcliffe as well, matching a spunkiness to her fluent lower-class urban accent. Nicole Kidman is a good choice for the ice queen Mrs Coulter although her contribution sits absolutely inbetween phoned-in and nuanced. Daniel Craig is not hefty enough - the only reason he's not overwhelmed by McKellen is that the latter is only present in voice-over. Sam Elliott's Scoresby is the best casting decision.Unfortunately, those who have and have not read the books alike can see that the action is very seriously compressed to 'get it all in'. I feel that more detail should have been ditched to strengthen the core plot. The editing is a little bit of a shambles in places. There's also a necessary reliance on CGI (the daemons) which just sits on the over-saturated side of bearable. I was also a little disappointed at the rather anonymous score, a weak one form Alexandre Desplat. But it's entertaining enough. 6/10
This is a rather wonderful genre-bender from Peter Weir, a rom-com, a sci-fi, a thriller, a satire and a Cartesian fantasy. One of my favourite bits is the pay-off of the entire meta-plot when the Show of the title finally ends but our experience is not necessarily shared by the in-movie audience, the general public. Nice touch.A grand concept film, you need a good script and one standout performance. The script's great, exhausting all the possibilities and twists and as for the central performance, well Ed Harris is excellent. Yes, Harris. Just like the man at the eye of the storm in Apollo 13 we find him straddling the hinterland between calm and hysteria with a set jaw and steel resolve. Where mission director Gene Kranz stares mortality in the face and bears it down, so The Show's director Christof refuses its existence, absorbing its impact with equanimity when it reveals itself to him.Naturally, it would be perverse to deny Carrey his central part in this drama. His Truman Burbank is also battling empirical and a priori worlds crashing frenetically about him (and almost on top of him, in the case of a rogue studio light). Oddly, The Truman Show strikes me as the ideal movie for Carrey - when you look at his spasmodic act in previous vehicle movies you often get the impression that he might simply be a puppet on the director's string. Laura Linney is great as the actress in over her head and Noah Emmerich plays the exposition-platform and drama-trope best friend capably. A beautifully designed production as well. 8/10
This is a breathless, stylish, shocking movie, a black halfway-house between the John Hughes masterpieces prior to it and their day-glo bubblegum postmodern successors (viz. Clueless and Mean Girls). Winona Ryder's Veronica struggles as a half-hearted friend of the ruling high school social class, a group of three girls all named Heather. Exciting alternatives present themselves when Christian Slater's J.D. (James Dean?) catches her affections and fires her mind.It's debatable whether J.D. actually exists at all, given that the film is narrated by Veronica and we see her writing in a diary - he could be a manifestation of her Nietzchean yang, devilishly tempting. I think the whole film has a magic-realist quality to it though and its too much work to try and isolate particular metaphors. What Michael Lehmann has done very well though (along with Ryder, who is superb) is to chart a course through the film in which individuals are presented as characters rather than stereotypes and so their dilemmas and actions are not easily categorisable. Consequently, the film is very much alive, exciting and funny and its arguments (although sometimes a little buried in the patois of the script, I felt) seem fresh.For all the humour it's often black and violent, although it's never unnecessary. Though dated, it's not particularly interested in it's detail so it wears well. Best of all are the cover versions of songs topping and tailing the film during the title sequences which really sum up the project - old tunes but in thoughtful arrangements. A noteworthy film - and one to watch shotgun with Grosse Point Blank. 7/10
A brilliantly animated but entirely obvious comedy. The story is a completely stock road movie formula: the twist is that a selection of peculiarly assembled animals are returning a child to its family. The 'Ice Age' issue doesn't really effect the plot or even the gags. The snow and ice are already 'on stage' - they don't really emerge as part of the drama.The joy is in the animation. Even the voiceovers are comparatively lacklustre and they're enjoyable, particularly John Leguizamo's Jar-Jar of a sloth. No, props to Pixar for a job as well done as in anything to date. A diverting and affecting, but unsurprising evening. 4/10
Rocking backwards an forwards like a snake to the charmer's pipe, this film can be funny and fresh - and then sudden torpid and stale. Jake Gyllenhall makes a rather good action hero, with a good British accent giving unanimity to the delivery of the script by a largely British cast. Gemma Arteton gives good feisty and looks quite good too, playing well opposite Gyllenhaal, though he seems more at home in the genre. They rush about bumping into Alfred Molina doing his best Oliver Reed/Alexei Sayle and generally managing some modest screen chemistry. Mike Newell also gets in a stark but nicely dovetailed post-Iraq invasion aside, as the cast argue over absent evidence for the sack of a city.But the film is about a mystical dagger, time travel and the shiftiness of Ben Kingsley. Consequently, despite all the frolicking on the dunes it gets hits quicksand; I found it easier to read the paper during the latter fight sequences and then return to the film when dialogue starts up. I also found it really difficult to reconcile Richard Coyle as the serious brother and heir Tus, given that he was so good in Coupling. Diverting 5/10
I lost count at about the eighth costume change. Howard Hughes' picture isn't an MGM musical by any means. It's more a pageant, a parade of the exclusive, expensive and exotic. I think the key conceit is making Marilyn Monroe not just ditzy but plain stupid - she becomes the sink hole of desire into which men are easily sucked and takes the pressure off the real performance of the film, that of Jane Russell.The opportunity to see this film has come up due to the recent, unhappy news of Russell's death. I can see how this is a loss. A beautiful woman who can act, Russell can also sing (or appear to sing) and is also, manifestly, something of a pro - her 'fall' into the pool at the end of the Ain't There Anyone Here for Love? sequence was no fall but her being cracked in the back of the head with the knee of a diving man.Despite her irritating stoned-whisper delivery, it can't be denied that Monroe looks luminous on screen beside Russell and the women clearly have chemistry. No-one else comes near them, as an attraction of the film, although I liked Charles Coburn's turn as the lecherous diamond magnate Piggy.I think what I love above all about this and other films of this period is the wonderfully saturated colour and correspondingly hyper-present picture. The faces of the actresses are unreal but irresistible. Add to that one or two infectious song numbers - I absolutely loved Bye Bye Baby - and its a guaranteed hit. 6/10
The Simpsons does a great job of making you laugh. Which is just as well given the development and re-writing that went into it. Actually, it's possible that The Simpsons movie may turn out to have a higher gag density than The Naked Guns or even Airplane. Such are the joys of a rich history, long gestation and fantastically sharp writing crew. This is a film that will thrive on DVD.It's worth noting that The Simpsons is also adjusted slightly for the big screen. There's an expanded range of perspective shots and the animation is beautifully fluid and 3-dimensional. There are new characters amongst the old, new gags trumping the familiar and the faint suggestion of the family growing up after 18 years.Luckily this is no watershed in the development of Springfield's dysfunctionals though. The story (Homer has to save town from annihilation following an eco-disaster he has triggered) and its profusion of tangents are thoroughly surreal, with a good balance of pathos and Beano-ish humour... ah, so that's where 'bathos' comes from. 6/10
Let's be fairly clear about this. Angeline Jolie has been sensibly cast as Lara Croft as she's a spunky lass who looks great in a catsuit. This is the appeal of the character, the game (a British design award winner) and now the feature film.Lara Croft is a postmodern, softcore porn version of Indiana Jones who has comics, rather than academicians for sidekicks. Jolie plays her rather well on all fronts, unafraid of her own considerable sex appeal and unashamed of her ability to deliver polysyllabic dialogue in an acceptable English accent, despite her witless target audience. In her jolly day to day life she has the services of a much loved British comic, Chris Barrie as Hillary, who is out of his depth I'm sorry to say. The baddies are also British but they're more at home - Iain Glen and some bloke called Daniel Craig. Whatever. 3/10
This is a peculiar mish-mash of a film. It's basic frame is that of an action thriller, not at all dissimilar to the Bourne franchise films. But Joe Wright's sensibility is broader, trying - and succeeding - in teasing a stylish coming-of-age film from the ellipses of the pursuits.Indeed the film turns out to be about the discovery of self, rather than the discovery of some prosaic secret. Yet, for all that Wright manages to nurture both these themes he never quite manages to get them to elide. The artful eye that he brings to fight-and-flight interludes tends to be neither one thing nor the other. The most successful stretches for me were those in which Saoirse Ronan's Hanna is able to absorb the world around her and discover things that are neither threat nor familiar. In this she is aided by the one outstanding invention of the film, a pubescent English girl called Sophie, brilliantly written by Lochead and Farr and with Wright coaxing easily the best performance on screen from Jessica Barden. The Sophie-Hanna bedtime exchange of intimacies is a gloriously touching, fresh heart to the film, beautifully shot and edited.Elsewhere, as you might tell, I was rather more equivocal. The Chemical Brothers' score is involving but not especially noteworthy. Ronan is very good as the pellucid-skinned Hanna but the ensemble cast of adults are just good, no more (Tom Hollander's strikingly taken role could have been wonderful but I fear that this was underwritten. Maybe they'd used all their ink on Sophie). The film has a formal integrity that's apparent by the end, which I liked, as well as some nice, crisp editing overall. The pre-title sequence of shifting assumption-challenges is as good as anything that follows it. But it's all about the young girls' friendship. 6/10
Finally I have had the opportunity to take in this reverently spoken-of film. It is clear that Alejandro Jodorowsky, the creator or perhaps the magus at the centre of the film is serious but not sombre. This attitude permeates this film, a narrative study of the alternative life philosophies emerging from the previous decade: there is humour to be had.The basic story is one in which a fallen Christ joins a group of acolytes on a journey to the mountain of the title. The images are wonderful. Full use is made of the strong Mexican light, locations and colours to create a cumulative tableaux of surreal images. The acting is an odd subject as it's clear that the cast regard Jodorowsky not only as director but also as more or less the guru he is acting. Their roles are treated with the reverence that one finds in the theatre of religious services.I take nothing from the narrative or its propagated beliefs. I didn't much care either for the hackneyed (even in 1973) sexual/corporeal fetishim deployed as an antagonistic substitute for drama at the opening and beyond. It's the extraordinary images and scenes constructed with care and conviction that I absorb, gratefully, from seeing this film. 4/10
On paper it looks like a winner. Sean Connery as a rueful, resentful ex-con brought in to help a rookie whose real interest is in chemicals liberate Alcatrazzz... OK, sorry big names and the potential for a Where Eagles Dare-style chain of set pieces really does offer something for the popcorn-muncher.This is a mess though. The problems come fairly early with a San Fransciscan chase sequence so obviously greenscreened it could have been done as a college project. I could have sworn that bits of Bullitt are used as backdrop - whatever their provenance though it's certainly a film that, lacking any self-generating interest, pilfers other films for ideas, asides and even lines. The final showdown on Alcatraz is reasonably handled but really, in the up and down career of Michael Bay this is pretty dreadful. 3/10
This is a film designed to force people off the fence. Introducing a flashback to the main body of the film with a 20 minute, VFX-concoted montage of the beginning of the world is an act to polarise the acolytes and the sceptics. I am determined to keep my seat between the camps, although I have to say that I was absorbed by the film. I felt that its methods occasionally grate and its conclusion is muffed - yet the film is a deeply beautiful account of the worth of memory and emotion when held up against the grandest of schemes.Bad stuff. I like the use of voice-over per se, but the pretentious supernatural whispering of disparate single words put me on the back foot at the start. I also couldn't, hand on heart, digest the CGI dinosaurs, even in the small ration with which they are deployed. (This is partly because the film is so terribly beautifully photographed - in a long film with a huge number of edits over the proposed time span this is a marathon effort. Emmanuel Lubezki deserves awards delivered on palettes.) Finally, the cathartic closing tableau isn't brilliantly directed and, irrespective of its purpose, becomes distracting by its stiltedness. Oh, and I also wish that the just-OK Brad Pitt hadn't had to step in for Heath Ledger who would have been sensational.Good stuff. As mentioned, the photography - worth saying again though as it's awe-inspiring. As a necessary adjunct to this is the carefully curated soundtrack, Alexandre Desplat putting together a pointed collection of bits of music to work with the images and the manner in which they are edited. The editing is also pretty good - though for me, once the quicksilver image-vernacular is established, some sequences are over-stated; a breathtaking insert of Jessica Chastain levitating has one cut too many.I was also amazed at the contribution of the children. This is, technically, probably Malick's greatest achievement - and this is clearly a crowded market for technical laureates. Hunter McCracken as the boy (who will become Sean Penn's existentially drowning executive) is brilliant. Penn himself is actually ever-so-slightly lost, clearly uncomfortable as the puppet in the hands of an auteur. Indeed, many of the actors with more than just bit parts do feel rather un-anchored.But then this film is, without doubt, a clearly personal statement of the director (indeed, the subject is said to have autobiographical roots). For all its faults, it has a conviction, borne out in the meticulous curation of every frame, which demands not only respect but non-prejudicial viewing on its own terms. 6/10
The first hit outing of Baz Luhrman's great sense of substantial cinema for a young audience. It's the perfect film to convert as well - it's meant to be short, high-intensity bursts of almost comic-book brilliance. I also like the updating ideas that start with swords as gun trademark so as to move up to firearms in fights.I think Luhrman got a bit lucky with his casting. DiCaprio is an ideal Romeo because he's rather petulant; Clare Danes is a lovely but modern maid. The supporting gang-cast are brilliantly spirited, especially John Leguizamo (who never lets me down) as Tybalt. The adults of the families take their parts seriously - it is real Shakespeare, after all.Finally, let it be noted that the film is almost entirely abducted by the mercurial but loving Mercutio of Harold Perrineau. The heart of the story is a world-excluding love; but the loss of a world whose love included such a powerful fraternal bond makes the tragedy really smart. 7/10
A genuinely honest attempt to make the fourth century rise of Christianity entertaining and relevant. This is a handsome film, beautifully designed and shot with Rachel Weisz at its heliocentre (I'm not sure that Amenábar intended that analogy, but it strikes me as a rather elegant one). It's also a bit serious, drenched in melodrama and thick orchestral music like an excess of cinematic MSG.The idea is to give a dramatic context to the rise of Christianity, the fall of Roman multitheism, the marginalisation of Judaism and all the contingent political murkiness that goes with such events. At the centre is Weisz's rationalist teacher. Amenábar manages a good line in discretion - not too much love-interest, not too much hectoring, keeping her back from the rise of the populist cults. Unfortunately he blows it with a single line, Hypatia approaching the senate with the line 'I believe in philosophy!'. I found the support cast a little wooden, particularly as they operated in this rather brow-beaten mien (with the exception of the perpetually sagacious Michael Lonsdale). However, the punchy turn of Ashraf Barhom as the proselytising Ammonnius is worth watching the film for. 4/10
Another super, time-tampering adventure. The more I watch these films the more I realise that the original high concept and Alan Silvestri's score are the two radioactive components that keep these films up and running. That said Zemeckis has already done past and future and their crossing over. This film is much more of a conventional thriller, focuses on Christopher Lloyd's 'Doc', doubles up the romance and multiplies the stock jokes both to do with Westerns and Marty's forebears.Michael J Fox seems slightly slower off the mark than in 1 & 2. He also has to play his something-grandad in a loony ginger wig and oirish accent - a farce I quickly forgot when confronted with the poor Elisabeth Shue's monstrosity of a hairpiece. Mary Steenburgen is a pleasant, affecting Clara Clayton, the love interest for the reliably frenetic Christopher Lloyd. It's a film with occasional corner-cutting but the money has been spent in the right places to maximise the spectacle. 6/10
A succinct, all-American film reminding me of Nicholson's extraordinary existential fantasy for Michelangelo Antonioni, Passenger. It's an often funny film, full of middle-class observational humour about class differences. Nicholson's Bobby is not immoral, not in the sense of a Meursault. He wants to do the right thing , but without subscribing to some prescribed idea of it. Redemption is offered as the main dramatic thrust of the film, a visit to his family home on news of his father's ill-health. He finds himself bouncing between the two poles of his life: the puffed-up, pontificating haut-bourgeoisie and and the hand-to-mouth ignorance of the working class. The weight of this post-Easy Rider counter-culturalism is in Nicholson's performance which is neither monstrous nor pitiful; always human & sympathetic but never generic. In support is a fine cast, including Karen Black's likable-ditsy diner busgirl Rayette. A movie that should gain from further viewing. 6/10
This is a weary sequel (and there are still five more to go!). In the grand tradition of follow-ups, the basic formula is repeated in a different setting. Naturally, the graduates of the academy are more likely to fall in with the undesirables of Pete Lasard's precinct especially since the insane urban warlord Zed (Bob Goldthwait, a sort of unkempt Giovanni Ribisi) is little more than that. The usual political machinations are supplied by Art Metrano as the snide Lt Mauser and plenty of jokes are recycled, in case you didn't get them last time. And no, the extraordinary sound machine Jones (Michael Winslow) doesn't actually speak in this one either. 3/10
A large (British) cast all pulling their weight and set free from many of the accepted constraints of period film making by Tom Stoppard's frankly irreverent script, this is a super, if long Shakespeare biopic, in effect. Joeseph Fiennes plays the bard as a bit of a tearaway, dicing with death (a beautifully casual line delivered by Colin Firth as love rival Wessex) and inspired to transform 'Ethel The Pirate's Daughter' into his most famous romance by Gwyneth Paltrow. Who wouldn't be.Geoffrey Rush sets the tone with his gutsy producer Henslowe cowering before Tom Wilkinson's patronage, who, in turn, cowers before Ben Affleck's superstar thespian. Thus does the dynamic of the film spread out, fast and full of humour. Even the extras seem above average. 7/10
A fairly gripping based-in-reality drama set in the Deep South at the height of the 1960s Civil Rights movement. Parker's clearly made a saddened polemic about the blatant and brutal inequities of the period. He's constructive in his tub-thumping though: there are a fair few shades of grey in the mix and the hectoring Mississippi whites are 3- dimensional and give conviction to their (often flawed) counterarguments for de-segregation.Actually, it's very easy to forget that for all that this is a social drama, it has a straightforward whodunnit at its centre. Willem Dafoe and Gene Hackman are a standard, if not classic procedural good cop/bad cop outfit. Both actors are good: perhaps Hackman is phoning in corners occasionally and Dafoe is a bit over-preppy, but they're well-cast. There's a pool of spittling, buzz-cut racists who are effective, from the sly Brad Dourif (he reprises the trick in LotR The Two Towers) to the thuggish Michael Rooker. The black cast is fairly anonymous, with the exception of the steely youthful Aaron Williams, played with frightened righteous anger by Darius McCrary. The emotionally transformative part is played by Frances McDormand's cul-de-sac'd wife of the insidious Deputy Pell, an early role for this Oscar-winning actress, and played with at least the authority of the male leads.I liked the pace, the detail - the heat and poverty, the honesty. It's quite a violent movie and perhaps that's as needs be. 7/10
My grandparents used to have a souvenir gargoyle mounted on their staircase, which was always frightening, even when you knew it'd be there. Disney's Hunchback of Notre Dame is the opposite, an anodyne, ironed-out cartoon which takes the edges off all the characters and story.It's a perfectly competently made animation (although it's rather gaudy for 18th century Paris). For all the earnest attempt to capitalise on Victor Hugo's famous tale though it's a bit of a circus - plastic songs, a plethora of unlikely extra characters and the pox of grown-up irony scattered about to entertain the chaperones in the cinema. Vibrant on screen but dull 2/10
A patchy melange but its carried by the irresistible charisma of its two principals, Wilder and Pryor. Gene Wilder is actually a considerable leading man, whose rare flashes of tonic realism seem genuine, unaffected. Pryor has a whale of a time as the all-out funny guy.The screen is also populated with a number of other notables (of whom the pleasant but anonymous love-interest Jill Clayburgh is the least). Richard Kiel and Clifton James are essentially reprising Bond roles in cameo. Patrick McGoohan - a highly charismatic but, I'm afraid, limited actor - plays the dastardly Devereau. One of the biggest characters on screen though is the estimable Scatman Crothers, most notable of course from the Shining but completely at ease in this perky nonsense of a thriller.Really, the whole thing could be said to be about the remarkable final sequence in the Chicago terminal which is worth hanging in there for. But it's not a chore by any means. 4/10
Just another premium-budget action adventure with Arnold Schwarzenegger. It's not too shabby with a nice blend of wisecracks & one-liners, loony armaments & carefully choreographed gunfights and some super stunts and explosions. CGI hadn't been invented yet... that is to say it was still in its infancy so there's some comedy greenscreening as well as some interesting puppetry.Schwarzenegger has some good company in Jameses Coburn (gravitas) and Caan (ruthlessness). Vanessa Williams is a bit off-the-shelf, frankly. I think that, more than anything, this film should be remembered for inspiring one of the more memorable sequences of The Bourne Supremacy. I mean, who needs a toaster when you've got a thermostat? 4/10
So boring. This episodic working out of rural British characters stutters along after the model of Richard Curtis' (already hackneyed) middle-England exports. Sex and foul-mouthery lurch past tired pleasantry in an drunken ceilidh of mise-en-scene that can't settle on its own dramatic weight. This is particularly disappointing as Posy Simmonds' graphic shorts have a certain elan, demonstrating dramatic depth and traction within their milieu. Frears' TV-look transposition is simply a different animal, an over-perky, glazed reproduction of this.I left this screening early, unable to take more than an hour of tangential narrative (another mishandled transposition - the picaresque nature of a series of short episodes doesn't work in a feature length film). In that time Gemma Arterton had repeated the self-confidence but consequent range-splurge which I feel is a flaw for her at the moment. Tamsin Grieg was a more measured distraction from a cast largely playing out sitcom roles - above all, Dominic Cooper must be careful of self-parody when cast as an attractive lead man. Poor 2/10
Despite Alejandro González Iñárritu's professed wish to pare his style down into a single, linear plot, he can't help but start with scenarios which clearly need the subsequent film to explain them. This is no bad thing though. The first scene is beautiful, intriguing and though unsettling, strangely warm. This is indeed the character of the film which, though filled with poverty, confrontation and dread exhales the clear air of compassion.This is largely down to the hang dog but intense performance of Javier Bardem. Bardem is a large man and, with high-profile roles as a bloodless assassin (No Country For Old Men) and a quick-tempered lover (Vicki Christina Barcelona) in recent memory the impression is of a reservoir of energy just below the surface. This penumbra of danger makes for great sweetness in his dealings with both his children and the proud immigrant underclass of Barcelona. It's a performance that exudes the purpose of Iñárritu's project - compassion and pathos in a globalised world overburdened with iniquity.I think the film strikes the right balance between storytelling and political proselytising. It's still a pretty grim watch (for all of its two and a half hours) though. Luckily the rest of the cast - particularly Maricel Álvarez's beautiful, pitifully self-aware Maramba - are also very good, and the photography is crisp. Iñárritu also has some nice, surreal ideas to bind the prosaic and the supernatural, although these are unevenly distributed. 5/10
It is upon films such as this Ron Howard has painstakingly constructed his reputation for being a safe pay of hands in Tinseltown. It's a film brimming with fun and pathos, tension and romance and an old school cast of really wonderful actors around their 70s.Cast-to-type Steve Guttenberg unwittingly helps a group of 'scientists' to retrieve the eponymous cocoons from a Florida bay and falls in love with one of the group played by (the lovely) Tahnee Welch. The twists of the subterfuge that Brian Dennehy, a sensible actor, downplaying his unimportant role, and his outfit operate under are nothing compared to the revelation that the residents of the local retirement home have been enjoying rejuvenating benefits of the cocoons. Don Ameche, Hume Cronyn and (the more robust) Wilford Brimley are the charming, vibrant trio of friends who must make tough decisions when the scientists have to take the haul off with them. Touching. 7/10
Werner Herzog isn't going anywhere notably new with this latest location documentary. Many will be familiar with David Attenborough's Life series which features equally wonderful photography as well as unmatchable research and coverage of animals you never thought existed.Yet Herzog's film isn't about the nature with which the over-qualified humans share Antarctica. Rather it's about the humans themselves and the impressions that they and their environment mutually make upon one another. I was pleased to see that the film didn't get particularly mawkish, with sustained takes on people caught in reverie or forced into self-revelation. Nonetheless Herzog manages to prise unusual stories and truths out of his co-habitants (I hesitate to say subjects) and the camera fills in many of the gaps.This is not a film about the fearsome beauty of Antarctica but rather an exposure of the practical and emotional necessities of human existence. Invariably absorbing. 5/10
There's little to recommend this film beyond the charisma of the two named leads and the competence of the action sequences. It's all taken from the big bin of slot-together ideas and lines - like a box of bricks kept in a corner of the Studio nursery and brought out when the teachers have run out of energy. Flash cars and bikes are fetishised, the soulless nudity betrays the teenager market target and the melodramatic excess tallies with the Yakuza/Triad diaspora-clash-in-San Francisco premise. I watched, vaguely enjoying Statham doing his thing, until Jet Li appeared. Charisma there is but it's no substitute for real acting and with a script from a Hollywood word- vending machine I had to leave it, bored, with 30 mins still on the clock. 2/10
A satisfying film made in the 90s nu-man climate author Nick Hornby did much to propagate. It's also another John Cusack + extended playlist soundtrack movie (the other being Grosse Pointe Blank), also a successful vehicle, if a light movie.It's a peculiar rite-of-passage comedy as it's played out by men - adults - who should know better. In many respects it's similar to The Break Up, only its a more complex and indeed sympathetic film. Cusack's Rob is attuned to his shortcomings (though not fluent in translating them for himself) unlike the blinkered oaf played by Vince Vaughan.It's a quite a well done performance, given that flashbacks are incorporated and he has to straddle the gap between the seriousness of the women and the outsize misfits of the other men. All the support roles are well taken; Todd Louiso is a quiet match for the blaring but entertaining Jack Black. Iben Hjejle as Laura is slightly more two-dimensional but her's is a tough role to fill. Nice and straightforwardly shot too 6/10
More secrets and lies. Everyone seems to have issues bubbling away which they paper over by being bossy, raging, flamenco dancing... surely the relentlessly chirpy Poppy of Sally Hawkins is trying to gloss over tragedy as well? Mike Leigh's film is a funny chameleon. Poppy is utterly infuriating from the very start - but the extreme end of a sliding scale of happy characters, rather than an ADD misfit. Not only is she the comparator against which the other dysfunctionals unravel and reveal themselves. She's also proactive about her part in trying to resolve the issues of others which dike-up their wellspring of good feeling. In a conventional developmental contrary motion, she learns that some are beyond her as others discover that she might not, after all, wear her levity as a veil.It's a rich if not entirely complicated role for Hawkins to play, which she does well. However, she and everyone else is acted into a small pen by the brilliant turn of Eddie Marsan as her driving instructor Scott.I am equivocal about the film. They've taken a brave gamble with Poppy's appeal and only half won. I also think that Mike Leigh's default is the jeremiad - I feel that he's tried to make a happy film but in pursuing this with integrity it ends up as tacitly depressing. There's also a horribly cumbersome sequence right in the middle of the film which might as well be a commercial break, so awkwardly does it sit in the drama around it. 5/10
It would be very interesting to have seen this film having had no contact with the series (of which I was greatly enamoured). The title credits deal briskly with the aggregated backstories of the characters. But still there are scenes and events that might catch the first-timer unawares, with its openness on sexuality and all manner of associated corporeality.Sex and the City covers more than two subject areas; of course, 'The City' being virtually equivalent to 'fashion'. It is extremely difficult to come to terms with the amount of money being channelled (perhaps that should be Chanel-ed) into clothing (and elsewhere), given their ostensible occupations. Here's the thing though. SATC was always a fantasy, Cinderella for telly, which nonetheless effectively blurs the line between dreamland and reality. Such is the nature of The City (always and only ever New York). In this way, it's a sharply observant post-feminist affair, a big bubble of all the things a girl might want - including melodrama! - but with just enough foothold in the possible.I liked this breezy film very much, although I think back and for everything that I consider unarguably good I can think of something a bit naff. For example, the photography is often of a standard interchangeable with the fashion shoots with which it shares DNA, yet there are occasional lapses into TV-spec. Nonetheless it's a jolly, emotional affair which succeeds by never trying to be anything else. 6/10
A long but engrossing thriller. You get two for the price of one really. It's a comprehensive historical narrative of the CIA (pre-WW2 to Cold War) and also a thriller about the tensions of working in a such an ambiguous, duplicitous employ.This is the bit that doesn't work. Matt Damon's career-clerk CIA man Edward Wilson is noted during the film itself as cold. More than this, he's so utterly inscrutable that it's impossible to roll with his own experiences as he never seems to have any. Angelina Jolie's role may be to offset this but she is too old for the impetuous teenager that leads him astray (she's much better in the 1960s than in the late 1930s, as it were!) The problem seem intractable, more than a casting issue. De Niro has set out to make a quiet shadowy film in which the narrative skates quietly across the ice-grey surface only to fall catastrophically in cracks of great violence at given moments. In this he succeeds - but relinquishing all emotional momentum in securing this temperament.I think this is a rather good film (notwithstanding Michael Mann-style mumbled dialogue) though not one to really stir its audience. 7/10
I really couldn't say whether Cage deserved an Oscar for his performance as a pitiful, nihilist drunk. For endurance, i.e. high intensity staggering and lurching though, he not only won the top gong but also saddled himself with a calling card that has dogged his career ever since.Nonetheless, this is a tough, searching picture whose seriousness begins with the forensic scrutiny of Las Vegas in Declan Quinn's first-class cinematography. Mike Figgis isn't scared of trying to capture obscure existential themes and this film has two of them: a man's pursuit of death by drinking; and his co-protagonist's complicity in that. Elisabeth Shue's unlikely tart-with-a-heart is a remarkable turn. Figgis has managed to cast and compose a sexually alluring woman (Shue is clad in enticing and occasionally sub-fetish Vivienne Westwood) who continues to perform her whore's role whilst clearly retaining some sort of intellectual chastity for Ben.I'm not sure quite what to make of the film but it's really affecting, engrossing and a great panacea to the common, tolerated excess of La Vegas. 6/10
Phyllida Lloyd's film of her own highly successful stage show is a sun- kissed romp and difficult to take against. Nonetheless, part of its cloying incredibility is because of the relentless happy-patois. Both in-shot and in the post-production there is a surfeit of little giggles and a hyperactivity of gesture that pushes 'fun' and 'joy' like an intoxicated snake oil salesman. It's as strong and ripe as the Mediterranean primary-colour palette, jumping off the screen in the sun and overlit studio and, in over-selling songs which hardly need it, just a bit too much to take.The prima inter pares of the ensemble is Meryl Streep as Donna, the mother of the bride (the film's conceit is that three men, all potentially father to Donna's daughter, are invited to the girl's wedding). Streep is ably supported by the similarly middle-aged Christine Baranski and Julie Walters, all three as characters reprising their youth as a trio of entertainers. It's a little forced and but thoroughly jolly; Streep has the bonus of more bittersweet moments - and songs - which she commits to fully and creates the pockets of heartache that a good romance needs. The men (Brosnan, Firth and Skarsgård) have a happier time of it since their characters are meant to be a bit fish-out-of-water, but their 'singing' is really not great at all!I also enjoyed Amanda Seyfried's performance, a good casting decision for this super-bubbly/carefree/youthfully cavalier role. I think there's much to recommend to those in the right frame of mind but, honestly, it was a bit much for me. 4/10
Disappointing. With the exception of Chris Cooper's stand-out central performance this film struggles to define itself. Presumably, since we know the outcome of this 'thriller' at the outset it's less of a twisty whodunnit than a moral study. Two men work together in a relationship defined by deception, paranoia and hanging onto crumbs of a priori truths to get them through...Well, it could have been good but the script's limp so all else crumbles around it. I like the photography that stresses the asceticism of winter Washington and the anonymity of the buildings inside and out - but the drama linking this existential wasteland to the men is scuppered by the weak dialogue. I blame Billy Ray squarely since the direction of the film has the same issues. Take, for example, the business of a painting showing two men in a boat. It's a whacking great symbol for mutual survival (I recalled the slogan on President Josiah Bartlett's desk in the West Wing: "O God, thy sea is so great, and my boat is so small") but it has less importance to the director than so many other details dwelt on in the film that have no interest other than to embellish the narrative.Cooper is marvellous. He succeeds in giving a highly sympathetic performance but leaving us in no doubt that we are witnessing the documenting of a creep. Ryan Phillippe lacks gravitas or stillness - Crash is still his best showing in a middleweight career. Laura Linney is hung out to dry and Dennis Haysbert is superfluous. 4/10
Sam Taylor-Wood's story of the adolescent John Lennon is an entertaining and occasionally touching film. I enjoyed it for the story of a young lad belligerently (and often fearfully) confronting the inevitable revelation of his past and constructing some sort of future. Taylor-Wood has consciously avoided any direct reference to the man that we all knew John Lennon would become, although there are implicit signposts placed in the visual narrative. Instead, his part in creating The Beatles assumed, the director concentrates on the (far from) simple facts of his coming of age, acquaintance with music and with real panache, the social climate in which this all came about.The central narrative concerns the ying and yang relationships that John has with his aunt Mimi and rediscovered mother Julia. It is hard to imagine how these three parts would be better played than by you're-not- fooling-anyone-ice-queen Kristin Scott-Thomas and the effervescent life- force of Anne Marie Duff (respsectively). There's some fine screen acting going on here. Yet the tortured break with a prosaic, echt- English aunt and the intense, Oedipal love for a irresistible mother would be nothing without the right John - and where Aaron Johnson's been, I've no idea. His great ability is to trip off endless social anachronisms, turns of phrase that would seem un-PC, ill-advised or simply too cheeky today with a body language to suggest that he has no idea of the ramifications or combativeness of such an attitude. This is what makes the rock-n-roll, about to burst from the back of the screen (like the Third Reich in Haneke's White Ribbon) so palpable, so believable.A good film, told, briskly and with rich nuance. 7/10
A contrary-motion dramatisation. That's not to say that it simply employs a to-and-fro present-and-flashback approach to its storytelling (which it does). Rather the drama always seems balanced, teetering on the edge of resolution but never getting there.So: the king is chosen and even his father bows before him. He is omnipotent. He is also two, incapable of even understanding his situation. As he finally reaches an age where not only comprehension but action - autonomy - is possible, he gets sidetracked by puberty. Finally in his prime, fit to rule, there is no empire left, just the ghosts of provinces (a panning shot of Manchuria is like the opposite of the closing optimism-pregnant vista of Once Upon A Time In The West).Bertolucci's achievement is in humanising Pu Yi's otherworldly upbringing, showing the pathos of a destiny that eludes him by a single step before vanishing forever in a puff of modernity. The episodes are told with humour and mix of detail and an old-school opulence (19,000 extras cumulatively?) that dazzles. There is some good acting - John Lone is OK - and some fine acting Ruocheng Ying, as the Governor. There's also some dangerously Olympian acting from Peter O'Toole as the tutor RJ, no stranger to such an epic cross-cultural biopic and who comes dangerously close to stealing the movie even with relatively modest role. The score is excellent, the costumes and makeup breathtaking. What really makes this movie though is the extraordinary locations without which (a modern version of) Bertolucci would have had to have used CGI to attempt the same spectacle. Unique, moving 8/10
The studio were quite right that Burton had made a rather black film in Batman Returns; I don't see that it was in itself a bad idea to try and re-direct the course of the nascent franchise towards something less soul-scratching.But this is absolutely wrong. Val Kilmer plays Val Kilmer. Chris O'Donell is bland. Nicole Kidman is just pretty and no more - there's nothing to work with. Tommy Lee Jones can be quietly psychotic but his character, Harvey Two-Face is the noisiest of all the Batman baddies and violates the screen.Only Jim Carrey cuts through the extremes of boredom and brashness. It's his usual shtick but that's what we paid to see in the other movies, so why not this? This crude reduction of the franchise to two dimensions shows what a super job Burton did on the first two. 2/10
Michale Haneke's film is a slowly stirred cauldron of low level malice, deceit and unravelling feudalism. There are no shocks following the dreadful (CGI - ugh!) accident of the first few moments. Instead we are led through a meandering series of episodes which build a terrific and - never released or resolved - sense of foreboding. It's a phenomenal achievement yet also intensely dissatisfying.Being such an economical film, we only get one or two shots of the 'weiße band' itself, the 'symbol of innocence and purity'. In this black and white film, tied around the arm of a boy dressed in black in a crowd of ashen-clothed children it sticks out prominently. My first association was that of the pale blue or yellow bands worn by Jews under the Third Reich. Naturally, it also evokes the red armbands that bore the Swastika. Or perhaps, in symbolist negative, it is a mark not of retention of innocence, but mourning for its loss.Innocence is all but a cadaver as the film begins. One get a palpable impression of evils subsuming themselves in the children, which in turn leaves the viewer fearing what may be in store from them (suggested in the films unprosecuted atrocities) and angry at the unpunished wrongs of the adults. Yet nothing is clear enough to say that this is a film about the cultural roots of the Third Reich rather than a more general meditation on the loss of innocence.The skittishness of the film, easily distracted from one episode to another reflects the stubborn refusal of Haneke to develop an argument. He simply records his own imagining of small-town social iniquity and fearfulness, demurring when one would like to have some sort of formal direction in which to point it. He also does it with considerable beauty - Christian Berger's photography probably could have won the Palme d'Or on its own. It's disorientating and alarming.For me though it's too diffuse. None of the traumas, actions or even innocuous relationships achieve real maturity. I understand Haneke's intention in creating an open film for us to draw our own conclusions but this is asking us to draw up the arguments that must find conclusion as well. The film is a snapshot of history, a period now a century old and it is very difficult for an audience to attach themselves to it, to invest in it, if the relationships and their consequences are cut off as well as the cultural isolation (manners, belief, clothing, living) that the time-gap interposes. It may as well be science fiction. 5/10
I wanted to love Weekend more than I did, given its fiery conviction and youthful (read 'of its time') vigour. There are moments though when one feels like one is watching the improvised philosophical whimsy of an experimenteur, because that is exactly what can be.Nonetheless, Weekend is invariably extremely funny, violent, accurate, surreal and surprising at any given twist in its episodic itinerary. It's clearly a film not only of the 60s but also straining at its bourgeois leash on the cusp of the Parisian riots which occurred within the year. It has the same magic-realist Greek chorus of painted youths that pop up in Antonioni's Blow-Up (of the year before, although Antonioni's film is apolitical). Where I feel Godard falls down is in making his political agenda too explicit.Technically the film is a riot. You never really know what's about to happen which keeps one watching in the first instance - and then you can't look away from extreme single take dollied shots for the same reason. Antoine Duhamel's music is original and congruous.A marvel of gripping, preposterous highs and surprisingly drab lows. Michale Haneke's bourgeois dystopic Le Temps de Loup is clearly in its debt. 6/10
It would be far too simplistic to say that there's an 85 min film starring Cate Blanchett trying to fight its way out of this. I mean, I rather like Haynes' basic conceit of having a dovetailed selection of fictionalised biopic. At one end is the immature, unselfconscious Marcus Carl Franklin as a Woody Guthrielyte; at the other Richard Gere as a schizophrenic samurai of civil rights. In between are conventional characterisations of Bob Dylan from Christian Bale (Julianne Moore entirely acceptable as a Baez-a-like) and an extraordinary cinematic cloning from Cate Blanchett. Heath Ledger's actor and Ben Whishaw's poet-abstraction are less well incorporated into the film's fabric.In fact, there's simply no fabric to weave into. Total immersion takes over - and its as if there's a seventh character, the over reverent director with his Kristofferson voice-over trying to be Dylan and consuming any clarity there might have been. It's formless, directionless - voiceless.There's some lovely photography and a great sense for the recreation of period footage as well as a heroic performance from Bruce Greenwood, a useful critic-trope abandoned by Haynes. But this is simply seasoning in a badly undercooked dish. 3/10
A patchwork of the pretty much expected. Cameron Diaz is the poster draw but the film is carried in at least equal part by Toni Colette and a wonderful, dry-but-judiciously-sparkling Shirley MacLaine. Much of the movie unfolds in a retirement home in Miami where all the inevitable exchanges (familiar from Cocoon, for example) play out... but the old ones, to double figure of speech with metaphor, are often the best and they are here.As so often in this sort of stock vehicle the second tier of casting is well taken: I particularly enjoyed the charm of Mark Feuerstein and Jerry Adler, solid groynes against the hormonal tides. 4/10
The perfect film material at the inception of the Cold War. Post-Psycho hot property Anthony Perkins is outstanding as Josef K, besieged by his own imagination. Told he is under arrest K spends the rest of the film in flight from his neuroses as if the trial - which never actually happens - were actually in progress.The content of the film is consequently rather obscure. The script is a highly-wrought exercise in diversion. I couldn't decide whether the dialogue is more like Beckett with its disengaged procrastination or Pinter, whose characterisations often seem impertinent. Either way it's easy to feel lost.The film is a marvel to watch though. Expressionism is a valuable but sparingly used effect. Welles prefers the long tracking shot in a manner that recalls Tarkovsky's Stalker, although he undermines this by often overcutting in dialogue. The set design - given that we're told the budget couldn't stretch to sets - is right on the mark. The performances take in a range of abilities, although Welles gets and (ultimately, as K's hideous lawyer) gives the best. Watch it with someone so you can talk about it. 6.5/10
Killer Joe? For a very short while I thought this might be another Morgan Spurlock documentary, this time searching for the best available coffee. But no, Joe is a man - a policeman, in fact - who also does a sideline in contract killing.That said, very early on in the film it becomes clear that this isn't going to be a straightforward thriller. There are the character-and- dialogue riffs and quirks that are much loved of contemporary pulp spiels, but this is rather more intense. McConaughey's Joe turns out to have some genetic material in common with Dennis Hopper's Frank Booth, whose own psychological oddities are truly arcane - and black. Opposite him is the barely pubescent Dottie, who, nonetheless has moments of great clarity. In the social cesspool in which the story is played out these people are not so much alarming as, perversely, visionary figures of some sort of hope.That's the film. It's hopeless but effervescent. It can occasionally seem a little studied but I love the photography of much of it. A mixed bag but ultimately a great vehicle for McConaughey. 7/10
A shocking but absorbing film, looking into an entirely possible future Britain. I'd say that it's a terrific British film as well, although I suspect its effectiveness is largely the work of director Alfonso Cuarón. Nonetheless the contributions of Clive Owen, Chiwetel Ejiofor and Michael Caine manage to imbue the work with real authenticity; there's melodrama, yes, but a sense of realism and humour which so many others wouldn't use.I particularly like the fluidity of the film. It's always moving on and doesn't make set piece issues. Cuarón prefers to keep the dystopian inevitabilities of suicide, dirt etc. in the background. He fails once, conspicuously, with an extra in an Abu Ghraib-like pose, iconically picked out in a tracking shot. Luckily such direct political commentary is rare.Above all, I like the basic premise that amidst all the squalor of conflict a child being born is a marvellous event. I didn't really work out the full significance of the birth in the context of the film - but I suspect this was Cuarón's intention. Disturbing but far from despairing 7/10
A iconoclastic film breeding stories about its reception that are out of proportion with the substance of the film itself. It is, on the face of it, beautiful (it's Kubrick's loveliest-looking film after Barry Lyndon) with wonderfully constructed and meticulously detailed sets. It also works very well with the exotic, elegant and terrifying original music by Dimitri Shostakovich, Johann & Richard Strauss and Grygory Ligeti.Yet it's a dated film. The ape-suited actors of The Dawn Of Man (the first act) are just that and defy disbelief-suspension. The design for the middle act are Boy's Own cartoon designs, ahead of their time... for the 60s. The central drama of the film is in the Jupiter Mission third act in which the designed intelligence, the HAL computer, comes into conflict with the astronaut Dave, played by Keir Dullea. This is the heart of the film and transcends earlier caveats. Dullea does a superb job, visibly struggling against the continually revealed unknown.I'm fond of 2001 for the reason that many find it memorable - it provides a space in which to consider the central event or narrative, the possibility of intelligent, extra-terrestrial life. It's actual substance is thin but its strength is it's temperament and pace. 6/10
A tough nugget of a film, grimy, gruesome but (amazingly) satisfying. London to Brighton is a faintly ironic title, recalling vintage cars rallies, bike races or simply a day out by the sea. The journey of Kelly and Joanne, conversely, is a desperate flight.The film isn't actually about the journey but bookended by it (if one were to be picky there is a lot of continuity issue here - two clearly different trains on the outward journey, train carriages that are almost a decade out of date - it's not the point). It's a film about the tart- who-discovers-her-heart, Kelly, played excellently by Lorraine Stanley, much of the time beneath a prosthetic shiner. Georgia Groome's Joanne is also impressive; Johnny Harris' loser pimp Derek is another super characterisation, a convincingly exponent of the emotional handbrake turn.The film's story is told briskly in a neatly orchestrated series of flashbacks. There's next to no extraneous incident, which means that Williams has to get the tone pretty right first time. With the possible exception of the mid close-ups of Stuart, the vengeful mobster driving the drama, which I didn't feel had quite the care they might have had, that comes to pass. 7/10
A hilarious romcom. A nice alignment of astrological signs meant that Crystal and Ryan were cast opposite each other - they're perfectly complementary. An elastic romcom in the tradition of Annie Hall, Rob Reiner sets up a tacking motion in the drama, moving between the sweetness of the principals coming together and their neurotic wresting back of their independence. Naturally in a episodic film such as this there will be notable sequences: Meg Ryan's infamous diner orgasm becomes cinematic folklore because of the payoff line - 'I'll have what she's having'. You can tell that Reiner understood this as he gave it to his mother Estelle.The straight couple/confidant characters are skillfully amalgamated in Nora Ephorn's script and wonderfully played out by Carrie Fisher and Bruno Kirby. And I like the vox-pops couples (with its twist) bookending the film very much. 8/10
Ang Lee clearly likes to ease into a film, to catch action, characters and setting on the hoof, as they emerge. Covering the haphazard endgame of the American civil war via the haphazard actions of a young militia, unformed in mind or manhood, this is an ideal approach. The film turns out to be about the formation of personalities, adulthood and relationships. Lee also shows the beautiful panoramas of the mid-south as a silent character, enduring the strife like a hardy parent.James Schamus' script is probably the standard bearer for this film; close behind it are a number of well-appointed performances that carry it admirably. Jeffrey Wright's name alone could carry this film for me. He's brilliant here but in a slow burning role: instead we are treated to very good (if not revelatory) performances from a large, often recognisable ensemble.A noble, optimistic film. One to watch if you don't fancy the harder, more bittersweet Cold Mountain or The Claim, for example. 7/10
The second excellent film this year that starts without dialogue for a protracted period. Like There Will Be Blood, Wall-E deals with the ramifications of the pursuit of power and resources, albeit from the pay-off perspective..."Really?" I hear you wince. "All I saw was a charming, knockabout children's sci-fi cartoon, full of wit, humour and hope". Yes, and so did I. From the deserted wastelands of earth to the second half aboard the megacorp-as-junta's vessel rehousing mankind, the rant at greedy wastefulness takes a back seat to a brisk and inventive fable about vigilance against complacency in life and love. I felt a little denied by the sequence in space, which - a blank (black) canvas - couldn't follow the textural brilliance of recreating desert earth. Equally, there is so much bluster in the action sequences, especially with other 'bots, one feels a little dazzled by detail. But the attention to the techumanity of the chief characters at important moments is to be applauded - and I liked the original and appropriated scores very much. 7.5/10
Actually, The Great Escape is a darker, more serious film than that which survives in the collective memory of the British public. A group playing of the fool in the teeth of a grand, humourless German war machine always had the potential to come back and bite.It's that playing of the fool that sells the picture though. The (evenly-split) Anglo-American prisoners of war do everything in their power to rile their captors, culminating in a reasonably successful escape plot. The more outré Americans carry the movie, wisecracking and full of action: Steve McQueen plays softball in the sin bin and Evil Knievel whilst on the run, Bronson and Coburn are equally independent agents, putting the thrills into the third act chase. The British, led by (and with the exception of) Dickie Attenborough and Gordon Jackson seem more content to rest on the laurels of outwitting the dastardly Boche. Exciting and stirring, if possibly a little overlong and of course condemning every international football match to its theme tune by virtue of its popularity. 6/10
I like this film very much, although I'm not sure it's a classic by any means. In fact, I think there should probably be a new genre of indie-ish studio drama called the Cusack to replace the rather amorphous 'quirky'...... the point is that this (to invoke other genres) buddy-cum-rite-of-passage drama has a super core roster of characters. Cusack himself is an all-American superstar in his little world; i.e. resting on his laurels. Billy Bob-Thornton maverick genius outsider Russell provides the challenges that Nick finally rises to through a circuitous route of desperate housewife Cate Blanchett and needy nihilist Angelina Jolie. For all the entertaining conceits involving these four my favourite bits are the well-orchestrated ensemble set pieces in the control tower. 5/10
A fairly straightforward action thriller that enjoys a real buzz with its top-drawer cast. Ford is the Kantian hero Jack Ryan (he spurts a line about his spontaneous heroism being down to 'rage, pure rage' but we all think he's less Id and more Olympian hero than that) whose defence of Right tangles him in the red-mist web of a violent IRA faction. Sean Bean is perfectly cast in this as the out-of-control bad guy; James Earl Jones, Samuel L. Jackson and Anne Archer are the arresting trio that back Ryan in mind, body and spirit (respectively). Philip Noyce concocts the ideal ratio of set piece and lull. The tense under-skein of how low each nefarious operation will counter in order to achieve their aims is more pertinent today as it was in the last throes of The Troubles. 7/10
A quintessential Adam Sandler comedy which recycles the fashions, sounds and attitude of the 80s. It's not really a tribute though - there's too much smug irony to let any affection into the mix. What affection there is is reserved for the romance with a wide-eyed Drew Barrymore and very cute that is too.Still, for all its (probable) cynical re-appropriation of 80s iconography and style the generic pizza base of the movie works pretty well. Sandler isn't rolling out the nutter shtick in this one and the film benefits from it. Instead there are a number of other set piece and sight gags (Grannies rapping, preposterously fat wedding guests unable to dance etc.) which are pretty predictable but well engineered into the flow of the film. 3/10
Over-earnest and determined to shoehorn in the funny despite that, this latest instalment is a well-honed version of all the rest. Well done. I found the 'family guys' interpolations insufferable and - typically for all sequels, of course - the scowling seriousness is now infused with irony. These people smug at being paid to re-hash the formula. At least Police Academy tried to come up with jokes.The big draw on this occasion is probably the location. We start in Moscow and then move to London for the first half of the film... in fact we start in London as well, as Lambeth Bridge seems to be doubling for an anonymous crossing of the Moskva. My favourite appropriation is when an aerial shot prepares us for the obligatory motor party & race. It seems to be heading for the Treasury... oh, it is, right in the centre of the Treasury! The consequent race spends at least four times as long on Lower Regent Street as is feasible at any speed and ends in Battersea. Loony. 4/10
1993 was the right time to be making a film about the scourge of HIV & AIDS and Jonathan Demme found a good, simple story with which to confront its realities and mourn its victims. Nonetheless, it's a film that could so easily have been glib, excessive or woolly.No fear. A cynic might reasonably suggest that Hanks had the Oscar in the bag at being cast in such a role but his memorable performance was probably still in the minds of those considering Gump a year down the line. Denzel Washington underplays his Damascene lawyer a bit but fires up for the courtroom confrontation. Banderas, Steenburgen and the foul Jason Robards are excellent.Demme doesn't do things by halves and it's a strong film. However I could really do without the Callas-lacquered set-piece nigh the end which does the opposite of that for which it is intended, irritating rather than delivering the emotional home run. 7/10
A nasty film. A beautifully shot voyeur's delight. The interest for the director seems to be in what's happened to previous victims and what's in store for the current ones. Tension is sacrificed for a pageant of gore.Saw, a similar film, deals with this by developing the behaviour of the protagonists in response to their increasing fears. The principals in Wolf Creek start operating at almost full panic from the moment the worm turns; there's no room for dramatic cranking. This is a shame - the buildup of foreboding is reasonably well managed and the consequent chase set pieces are well composed and realised. There's just no contour. It's either happy or horrible.I think Greg McClean has made a stab at a worthy horror flick - there's an artful, if redundant pathos. However, his own interest in Mitchell's modus goreperandi is too thinly veiled. 4/10
Frequently a triumph of style over storytelling, The Invasion is an unapologetic matinée action thriller. It doesn't work to its full potential. There's a surfeit of non-contiguous set pieces (don't y'know!), a long way of saying that bits get shoved in because they're part of what happens in this sort of flick.Nicole Kidman does the same sort of job she did in The Interpreter - almost exactly the same sort of film, in fact. Daniel Craig is excellent, better than in Munich or any post-Bond role. Star of the show is Jackson Bond, a real natural.I liked some of the shooting (and occasionally adored it). The music-video approach to editing is a little self-conscious sometimes. The big moral ending is a big fudged and overstated but then one understands that the film got the studio-sausage-maker treatment, so who knows what was meant to be? 5.5/10
The usual hazards of life examined with an unusual premise. Lisa Cholodenko's outstanding family comic-drama uses its two-mums premise to tip and highlight the drama. But that's it. With the possible exception of a sing-alonga-Joni (Mitchell) sequence and a clumsily edited first kiss this is not a lesbian film. Rather it's a progression of sequences that examines the emotional maturity of the five characters involved.Once again I'm out of superlatives for Annette Bening who can be both fearsome and genuinely, self-deprecatingly comic. Opposite her is the cause of the drama, the sperm donor played by Mark Ruffalo, comparable as both actor and as adversary. He's really very good indeed. Julianne Moore is an authentic character and probably doing more than I'm crediting her for in providing a platform for not only Bening and Ruffalo but also the excellent Mia Wasikowska and Josh Hutcherson as cusp-of-adulthood progeny Joni and Laser.It's a remarkably detailed, fluently made coming-of-age drama that would unquestionable reward a second viewing - not only technically but also emotionally. 8.5/10
I thought fairly well of this film, an internationally-dimensioned butterfly effect thriller from Iñárritu. It's long and it's relentlessly depressing. Yet it's consistent and its handsomely shot, making full use of its locations and available extras.The principal cast(s - there are three continents in play) are led by the tremendously sympathetic Hispanic nanny Amelia played by Adriana Barraza and the children in her care, Ellie Fanning (... yes) and Nathan Gamble. Blanchet-Pitt are OK (the latter with odd facial prosthetics) and have a little gaggle of top British actors in tow - Trevor Martin in particular nearly acts everyone else into the desert with literally half a dozen frames. Amazing. Rinko Kikuchi as Cheiko and Rinko Kikuchi as her father are effective if dour as they have a leaner plot to work with.Iñárritu is totally in control though, making us wait in suspense until the very end to find out how exactly the stories fit. It doesn't seem to matter that they're not really complimentary - I mean, I found it rather frustrating not to feel catharsis or enlightenment but the film functioned without this payoff. 6.5/10
A really super animation that weaves together the anthropomorphic ideas (and techniques) of Ice Age and Toy Story. Like Toy Story, Over The Hedge is essentially a comic rescue drama. A group of wild, familial critters infiltrate a suburban back yard in pursuit of food. This is the subject of one of a number of inventive montages in the film which shows the human as a species of relentless consumers. Like other sequences such as this, there is a sense of worthiness being fed into the script but crucially, this never gets sanctimonious or laboured.I laughed a great deal. I was also totally taken in by the voices, particularly Bruce Willis as the duplicitous RJ and, amazingly by Avril Lavigne's Heather, much better than I thought it would have been (Alison Janney is also great as the sub-Cruella-de-Vil neighbourhood harpie Gladys). The animation is as good as one might expect (it is animation, not motion capture) and there are one or two sight gags that couldn't be bettered. Perfect Christmas Eve fare. 7/10
An unfailing, expectation-satisfying sequel. Jan de Bont has set himself quite a task, not only in trying to follow the success of the the first - and without Keanu Reeves - but also in having to continue the concept without repeating the unimprovable original bus ride sequence.Well, he (and, no doubt, a legion of others) came up with a boat and more besides: best of all they put the Willem Dafoe's nutty bad guy on the vehicle. This is a nice addition to the formula, putting the bad guy on the vehicle and changing the dynamism of the thriller. Kinda. In fact what there is is more action, tension and whining members of the public bookended with a self-parodying romance between Jason Patric and Sandra Bullock. Neat, fast and fun. 5/10
Maddeningly enjoyable. This flick brims with the rejuvenated detail that make up the Tarantino canon of 70s pulp fleapitography. It also has all the inextricable downside, where every sequence tends to get overstretched by the dialogue. Pulp Fiction and Jackie Brown salvage this with premium casting - there's not always the same charisma on screen here.The film's in two parts. The first has more of an insidious, smooth-psycho Kurt Russell (whose stunt-adapted Mustang is 'death-proof') and which is consequently more disturbing than the second Dukes-of-Harzardy romp of the second. Tracie Thomas and Zoe Bell kick some ass in Act 2 where Vanessa Ferlito shakes it in a classic dance-to-juke-box set piece in Act 1.The cars are also the stars and Tarantino treats us to the usual cameo and top-notch soundtrack. Like all classic Tarantino, it's a flick for youngsters with a warped idea of what it is to be older; and for oldsters who wish they were young again. 7/10
I'm not entirely sure how to appraise this film of Paolo Sorrentino. Whilst it's clearly a vampirically styled dramatisation of pre- Berlusconi political corruption whether or not it's effective satire is very difficult to judge. Knowing no Italian, I watched with English subtitles and, conflated with my ignorance of Italian political history I feel I missed the weighty body blows of the film.However, to exhaust the metaphor, I was in the ring nonetheless and appreciated the dancing footwork of Sorretino. The bare technique of the film-making is first class, including a hyper-studied turn from Toni Servillo as the prinicipal Giulio Andreotti, always on the precipice of Fluck & Law-level parody.In the end I don't think I cared enough. I can only judge the film on the impression it gives as I felt at a remove in terms of first hand information - and it seems that Sorrentino has little compassion for the characters in office. Maybe I'll try it again one day when I'm better informed. 4/10
Top casting. Gene Kelly is the most recognisable star, but in a less than recognisable role. His glib hack Hornbeck sees the potential in a small town trial of a biology teacher (Dick York) daring to contradict the Bible with Darwin's evolutionary theory. Consequently two huge legal guns roll into town: the pompous but articulate creationism prosecutor Brady (Fredric March) and a world-worn everyman, Drummond, defending 'the right to think' (Tracy).As in many a courtroom drama the set pieces are what the film is remembered for - particularly the final, single shot confrontation between the two legal titans. I was less enamoured of this stand off; the film peaks a little early for me. However there is a rich but far from stodgy feature as its precursor full of wit, love and a quite exceptional script that might take sides with characters but refuses to take sides in this ever-present and violently important argument. A wonderful film to be watching in the week of the 150th anniversary of the publication of The Origin of Species. 7/10
This is a remarkable, fearless movie from a naturally idiosyncratic filmmaker. It comes in the established wake of two of the greatest gangster films ever, the first two Godfather films, and following the notorious folly of Heaven's Gate (also 220 minutes in its original cut). Yet whilst Once Upon A Time In America is a vast film, it could do with being longer - I feel that the final 40 minutes bustle a bit. There is no stretch in the rest of its span during which one feels sidetracked or bored; no point at which one feels one is watching a re-hash of Coppola's great films.Leone is almost uninterested in the minutiae of the gangster life, treating them with due concern only insofar as they serve to inform the relationship between the most important principals, Noodles (De Niro) and Max (Woods). James Woods is magnificent in this film, an intemperate heavyweight to counter the great screen charisma of De Niro - who is also fine, particularly in his cosmetically-aged guise.I think the most remarkable things about the film is the economy. There are any number of shots which take a wide-eyed view of New York growing up either side of the second world war. They are scrupulously period but never overfilled. The principals remain the centre of attention. The long-breathed, lyrical pace of the film gives us plenty of time to absorb the wealth of each scene.For a film admirable for its assurance at such a delicate pace, many little things stand out. The acting of the youthful gang is terrific and I'm not at all surprised that this auspicious debut launched Jennifer Connelley's career from the first. A scene over Rossini in a maternity ward is hilarious, chilling, beautifully photographed and entirely reminiscent of all the best things about Kubrick. And possibly the best bit of the film is the opening sequence: an affecting but almost incomprehensible sequence over an implacable ringing phone, whose meaning is revealed throughout the film's entire span. Masterful.If I were going to question anything it would be Morricone's score, temperamentally cogent but somehow aesthetically at odds with not only the America on screen but also the characters within it. Nonetheless this is a truly great film. 9/10
A long, (vie-en-)rose tinted but not overly sentimental biopic of Edith Piaf. Marion Cotillard's Best Actress Oscar is a richly deserved award for a performance that absorbs a spectacular emotional and physical range.What one does not get is a sense of how Edith Piaf was received by the French public at large. A brief montage pays lip service to this, coughing up cross-faded newspaper pieces, but this is unsatisfactory - and, like a lot of these sort of stock moments, actually a trifle vexing...Nonetheless, there's plenty of variety, a super supporting ensemble and a pretty accurate sense of the low and high life in which Piaf must have found herself belting out a living. A solid and largely entertaining document. 6/10
Much more akin to the Flying Circus sketch shows, The Holy Grail takes Arthurian characters and scatters them over a loose and characteristically barmy pursuit of the holy grail. It also makes use of Terry Gilliam's animated inserts familiar from the TV show.The Holy Grail is not as coherent as Life Of Brian and certainly doesn't have the same satirical intent to keep it sharp. To replace the interest-baby lost with the narrative-bathwater it employs a range of other ideas from Swedish credits to an unnecessary intermission to season the mix. Having a running joke in which the team are urged to 'get on with it' is a dangerous practice though.That said, there is a lot of mirth to be had. The whole team cook up a large range of bizarre characters, situations and absurdities and betray a strange obsession with bunnies. Unfailingly funny. 5/10
It's funny but to simply box it up as a Comedy is to do this film a disservice. It's a drama about pregnancy that brims with good humour. It certainly isn't using an unwanted pregnancy as a premise just to get gross-out/toilet/taboo-busting gags onto the screen.Most important in making such a distinction is the way in which the film is made. It's obviously put together by a fairly new but self-assured director. The scenes flow deftly into one another without telegraphing their intentions. Acrimony sneaks up on the couple as stealthily as the conception; joy is incorporated as always secondary to the simple fact that a child has been created. This is not a film of great melodrama or epiphany. Rather it simply creams the natural drama from cramming 9 months into 2 hours.It is funny, however. Seth Rogen's performance as Ben is a masterclass in comic control. I'd hardly heard of him before but it comes as no surprise that he seems to be a stalwart of the late-nite-comic stable. Katherine Heigl as Alison pings convincingly from very high to very low and manages almost every shade of blonde inbetween. Paul Rudd and Leslie Mann as Alison's sister and brother-in-law are the important support but luckily a part of the drama rather than a censorious trope. Ben(Rogen)'s slacker friends are more obvious but just manage sympathy ahead of gross-out-irritance.An unusual, warm, modern drama. Try watching it one side of Hugh Grant's execrable 9 Months to see what I mean. 7/10 (a possible 8 undermined by the dreadful Harold Ramis cameo)
What a super film. The magic sets in from the top with a lovely neoclassical score from Georges Delerue and Giovanni Fusco which surfaces throughout the film as added perfume. But this isn't some sort of layered, misty eyed romance. The story-telling is quite to the point, the only overlap coming as the words of Emanuelle Riva drift across from the present in post-nuclear blitz Hiroshima to war-time France and her bittersweet illicit love affair with.Love stories work best when they do not have a happy ending - such is The English Patient, Lovestory, Casablanca... indeed this 1942 film lends itself to the coda of the film where the cycle of falling in love and then walking away from it again perpetuates itself once more. The ardent but bitterly resigned Eiji Okada tells Riva that he wishes he had known her at her first flush of love, when the reality of the end of such an affair was still consigned in ignorance. The experience of the affair in the present and the love of the now-fixed past in conveyed brilliantly in familiar New Wave jump cuts, making connections between people and feeding the story slowly. In 1959 neon-lit nighttime Japan must have looked as alien as provincial France in the 1940s looks halcyon now.The film is carried by Emanuelle Riva, a beautiful, technically capable actress who has worked consistently throughout her career and is coming to prominence now, having just won a BAFTA for her role in Michael Haneke's Amour. 8/10
I didn't like the film particularly. I thought Cillian Murphy was superb, very restrained, but that the general acting followed a similar trend in the story, ideas and texture of the film; i.e. that they were simply borrowed, if not contrived.The UK critics have been almost uniform in their accolades, at once recognising Danny Boyle's homage assembly but nonetheless commending it on its own terms. In this specifically I feel there's a strange confusion. The film doesn't really know whether to be a mystic film (2001: A Space Odessy), an action-horror (Event Horizon or Pitch Black) or a CGI vehicle (Armageddon). It's none of these, allowing no space for any themes to breathe or develop. And everyone talks about Tarkovsky's Solaris - Sunshine is much more like Soderbergh's version with it's more mobile narrative and visual effects, but without Soderbergh's due attention to the characters and their relationships.It is a competent matinée. The drama is based in reality, from the dying sun concept to the not impossible twist. Additionally Boyle's personal visual tropes, most familiar from 28 Days Later, are exciting in themselves. But we've seen better outings of it all - ideas, sequences, shocks, visuals even the score - before. 4/10
An entirely reasonable blockbuster. I enjoyed the action-animation scenes well enough. I thought that there was some pretty good acting, often capably straddling that line marked 'warning - gratuitous melodrama beyond this point'. Thomas Haden Church is possibly the best but with too little material to make it count in a crowded roster: I liked Dunst a lot but Bryce Dallas Howard more.But by 100 mins I was aching for the thing to wrap up. There are two utterly disposable dance (yes, that's 'dance') set pieces designed to essay the change in Maguire from geek to cocksure goth. I thought it had all been taken care of in a darkly charming sequence with Parker's landlord's daughter Ursula (Mageina Tovah) but I guess you can't say things often enough. Like, "an hour and a half with popcorn for company's quite enough thanks Mr Raimi." 5/10
A funny, understated Saturday Night Live-type vehicle. It's also a bit confused. The concept is good - thirty-somethings sucked into opening a college 'frat house' - but once the jokes concerning the simple incongruity of older men behaving like younger ones have run out, we're not left with much more.The parallel stories concerning the men's partners don't really have much to do with the frat house joke. We have to rely on the riffing of the main three protagonists. Will Ferrell is the most engaging, managing to suppress both the self-importance which has afflicted his subsequent films and his Tourettish over-acting. Vince Vaughan doesn't and is at his aggressive, self-important worst. Luke Wilson is nominally the principal of the trio and is most successful by virtue of being most sympathetic. 4/10
A musical that all others will forever aspire to, Singin' In The Rain unequivocally holds the soubriquet 'classic'. It's at once an irresistible romance, a gently satirical history of the motion picture and a spectacular song-and-dance show. It also manages to paint a picture of ideal Americans but with a paint dipped in that peculiarly wistful dye of the American experience.There is, perhaps, no better distillation of what is to come than the first shot of Gene Kelly. Dressed from head to toe in white and with Jean Hagen similarly costumed, his megawatt smile shines brighter still. Throughout the film characters and situations burst and blaze with life and fun, unconfined by the screen. Donald O'Connor matches Kelly tap for tap and Debbie Reynolds pulls off the much-emulated trick of playing the girl-next-door in the body of a Hollywood star.In the sensory offensive it's possible to overlook some remarkable, adventurous shots and sequences. For example, the 'modern' sequence, substituted for Kelly's description to the studio boss is more than just an interpolated Broadway number. It risks a proto-ballet dream-in-dream pas-de-deux (with the now-equally-immortal Cyd Charisse) and a great crane-dollied zoom in and then out, the latter with Kelly overlaid in foreground. Perhaps Stanley Donen was inspired by the motion-picture experimentation theme of the film itself.It would be nice to be able to draw some sort of conclusion about the timing of the film: a conscious postwar feel good, or perhaps some sort of agitprop surrounding nuclear armament ("surely the principals decked out in rain/lab-coats are smiling through a wet metaphor for nuclear fallout?"). No, I think that if there is a threat responsible for the film's inception it must simply be that of the dull Sunday afternoon which will forevermore be lit up and enlivened by this wonderful film. 9/10
More of the same. This installment has the great advantage of featuring a series of competitions involving other students. This opens up the cast envelope, giving scope for a bit of romance and, by the way, introducing a one Robert Pattinson. There's also the promise of Ralph Fiennes managing a nice scene-chew à la Gary Oldman in the last film.I enjoyed the action of the competitions as a change of impetus, given that Ron and Hermione seem somewhat sidelined in this film. The adult British cast has also swollen and does more ham than a country butcher's; that said I really liked Shirley Henderson's cheeky Mertyl cameo.But it's so dark! The picture's often terribly murky. For example, the sub-Shining maze sequence looked like a negative rendering of Kubrick's film. I'm sure the idea is to set up a screen palette that will allow the light effects to make the best impression but it can become tedious having to guess what's happening. 5/10
A very interesting, transitional Hitchcock film (I haven't read Conrad's The Secret Agent). An early act of the eponymous sabotage plunges Camberwell - for this film is set on the fictional Plouthorp Road of SE5 - into darkness allowing for some unsettling silhouettes and shadow- chasing. Yet this seems to the be the extent of Hitchcock's use of the German aesthetic. Subsequently we get a not entirely polished selection of unexpected twists (Ted's real identity), suspense (the boy with the package) and latterly trademark foreground/overlaid shots. Luckily Hitchcock has employed the excellent Oskar Homolka as Karl Verloc. Rather usefully, it seems that Hitchcock is as benighted as we are when it comes to the motivation for Verloc's shady behaviour - he could be a gangster, a vengeful national or simply an anarchist. It doesn't matter, he is simply the slimy, spinless middle man set to reap what he sows. Loder (Ted) and Sylvia Sidney (Sylvia) are winsome if a little stock - Desmond Tester as Stevie is jolly good.Entertaining but patchy 5/10
A super adaptation of a book on Idi Amin's mangled leadership of Uganda. Forest Whitaker had won a Golden Globe for his performance of Idi Amin the day before I saw the film. A fully deserved award, Whitaker produces a volatile, threatening, seductive man-child without resorting to a single violent act throughout. James McAvoy's Dr Nicholas Garrigan is taken in by this charisma, realising the danger he's in only too late; McAvoy's is a comparably good characterisation, a sort of serious Ewan McGregor.Most of all I love the way this film is made. It's shot with a selection of filters which do more to give a sun-bleached effect to the film than to colourise it. There is regular but controlled use of snap zooms and dynamic steadicam (a la Greengrass of Bourne) and everything is close framed: the idea is that with this claustrophobic world-view, Garrigan can't see the wood of his situation for the trees. The close quarters of the filming also brings out the extraordinary texture of the film (also exacerbated by the filters). The surface of Whitaker's face is representative of all else - a bitty, pitted, sweat-stained, visceral face of the vital but uncivilised. Good work 7/10
This is where the tide turned. Given the picaresque nature of this gag-density comedies it was deemed possible to recycle the first film but with the original cast training a new influx. It's a weak premise but that doesn't matter - all that matters are new joke scenarios.Well, this works for a sketch show but not a feature. In a hilariously ironic twist Guttenburg looks beaten, as if the Police Academy programme, intended to reform malignants in the first place, has actually worked. Zed has joined up (the schtick sticks, you might say). Even the re-introduction of Lt Callahan (Leslie Easterbrook) can't rescue this one. 1/10
A terrific big summer matinée - the bar may have been set too high, too early for many box office competitors. JJ Abrams' gleaming and exciting prequel to Star Trek (series and films) is most things to most people: surely satisfying to the average Trekkie, but a breathless and often funny space adventure for the rest of us (such as myself).The film's success is the sum of a number of parts. Chiefly, for this viewer, is the light and colour up on the screen. The USS Enterprise is shiny and new (there's a great deal of lens flare), the pyjama-top outfits box-fresh and, crucially, a significant amount of the action takes place on (or near!) the surface of heliocentric planets. None of this hiding the necessary CGI joins in the black canvas of space, although the restless cameras, which owe a great deal to the aesthetic of Cloverfield, serve to cover any joins, I imagine.The cast may have been chosen for approximation to their older counterparts but the acting doesn't suffer at all. Postmodern hauteur over the originals is avoided as everyone throws themselves into the project. I was particularly impressed by the witty script which finds space despite the pace of the film, tilting ever forward. Simon Pegg's much-anticipated Scotty is good but the least of the central cast: Chris Pine and Zachary Quinto as Kirk and Spock are a formidable, earnest and sympathetic central duo.My one reservation concerns the appearance of Leonard Nimoy as the ubiquitous Spock. Abrams just gets away with this necessary interpolation of original casting but you can feel the film violently decelerating for the period of his (first) appearance. Nonetheless a super flick for a quiet weekend's afternoon. 8/10
A Messing vehicle after Four Weddings and a Funeral. It could go either way of course. Debra Messing is a super small-screen comic actress and although her film outings have been underwhelming thusfar (Celebrity, The Mothman Prophecies) this seems just the sort of pot pourri picture to bring out her best. Well, it barely materialises: predictably, when the director actually wants something her comic timing is impeccable, but when she's given free reign to be neurotic or dramatic it's just a bit aimless.This unevenness permeates the whole enterprise. Amy Adams has it just right and Jack Davenport doesn't try anything fancy, thank goodness... but Dermot Mulroney is far too serious, Jeremy Sheffield - a hunk the Broccoli's must have had on the same shortlist as Daniel Craig - is too silly and Sarah Parish somehow too small-screen (although there's nothing small about her show-stealing décolletage).The film itself is desperately slight, mixing Friends with Four Weddings. It's too thin and puts too much pressure on the cast to fill out half-baked set pieces (Parish rises to this challenge admirably, and I might add that Ivana Horvat's tiny contribution in this context did not go unnoticed). 3/10
More of the same, post-Matrix, supernatural nighttime action. I think that the special effects and editing are notably better in this sequel though and there is a very good minimum standard of acting across the board. There's also less Gothic fetishism and more attention to telling a story - the heavy stylisation is given over to the action (a function of the drama), not the fashion (a function of target-marketing).Once again the film centres on Kate Beckinsdale's teasingly latex-n-corset clad Selene and her burgeoning relationship with Michael, the hunky one with large black contact lenses. Derek Jacobi comes in to lend the gravitas that Bill Nighy struggled with last time around. Tony Curran is my favourite though, fulfilling the article, bearded baddie role vacated by Martin Sheen.Bears favourable comparison with the X-Men series; good work, Len Wiseman. 5/10
It's been about a quarter of a century since (enthralled) I read Roald Dahl's Fantastic Mr Fox. Well this film roughly represents the text. However, Anderson and Baumbach took the decision to re-appropriate some of the story's content and style in order to reflect their own sense of energy and wonder. It basically works, because it's fresh, up-to-date and pertinent to a cinema audience.The voices are a super feature, particularly that of Anderson's long- time collaborator Jason Schwartzman, who plays Ash, the eponymous Fox's son/cub. In a nice casting move, which brings further irony to a running joke concerning human vs fox years, Meryl Streep is Mrs Fox to Clooney's Mr... Clooney is a bit cool for me in this film - he's a good comic actor but a lot of what he does is visual. I missed a weight to his sincerity.The spirit of the late, great British animator Oliver Postgate is invoked throughout the film with a generally low-fi approach to the animation. I was most impressed with the variation of shots, given that it's all roughly two-dimensional. Variations of angle and framing as well as some fluent camera tricks (which, sometimes for only a matter of frames, must have hardly seemed worth it) make for an involving film. The chase scenes are funny, fast and occasionally frightening. One mustn't forget that Dahl himself did not eschew the shocking in his books.As is often the case with animation, there's a fair bit besides the narrative packed into the screen. We're treated to a Jarvis Cocker cameo in more ways than one; a Tarantino homage from Kill Bill; and an interesting framing device that Brian de Palma used in Carrie, overlaying a shot so that foreground and background are in focus simultaneously to take in solipsitic aside and reaction simultaneously. As in Carrie, this happens on a sports field, at a sub-Quidditch/cricket game, mixing quirks and pathos as the young animals wrestle with their own pre-pubescent purpose, Anderson's chief interest in this film.Some of it doesn't work. I thought the second appearance of the (more Tarantino meets Desplat's Morricone-spoof music) rat was overlong and possibly superfluous. Yet I laughed a great deal and the serious moments never curdle. 7/10
There are moments of genuine thrill in Skyfall: the punchiness of a genuine sequel; the realisation that the events at the close of the film suggest a third sequel is already being written; the use of London, with a lot of genuine Whitehall location shooting. The third act - for all its peculiar isolation - is also satisfyingly old school, in action terms.I got my money's worth. But the price of a cinema ticket is not high, I'm afraid. For a shiny new Bond film, the old 'clutch control' issues remain. The action basically stops to allow conversations to take place. As a B movie, these parts of the script are thin on real substance. The core issue of the film, Bond's relationship with M, is entrusted to the actors - and though they are a fine company they are clearly a little confused by the requirements of the script versus the nature of then film. The World Is Not Enough is a better essay in the troubled relationship between Bond and his controller as it works with greater elasticity of purpose.Given that there is an actor from the Bourne trilogy proper in a similarly brief role and a sequel set-up line/reveal that is borrowed from the final Nolan Batman, I cannot help but compare Skyfall with these two recent franchise exemplars. In both the dialogue is integral to the thrills, not downtime between the action as it is in Bond. I enjoyed the action in design and execution immensely, when it arrived but found myself waiting around too long for it to happen.This is a good, competent, largely entertaining film. However, it is not 'the best' Bond film, nor a particularly noteworthy film of any other ilk. 6.5/10
I say Alien 'spin-off' but then I suspect that any most sci-fi films involving alien antagonists come under that umbrella. Vin Diesel is a super lead for this episodic escape-thriller, a misanthrope of terrible infamy who turns out to be the only hope of saving the ensemble from a generic horde of nocturnal nasties.I say generic (where's my editor?!) but actually I was rather impressed by the construction of the beasties and their attacks when I saw the film. This is pre-Matrix Revolutions and Cloverfield where the threat is enhanced by developments in software and techniques but director David Twohy still has ideas to make them very menacing. Radha Mitchell is game if necessarily perfunctory support. 3/10
Essentially, The Fifth Element is an excuse for Luc Besson to be coarse, camp, creative and get Milla Jojovich on screen in very little clothing. Now all that looks fairly reasonable on paper, but the film that comes out of it is an over stylised, European-comic blancmange... with Bruce Willis at its centre.Still interested? Fair enough - I actually rather liked Willis, cast on type and holding the flannel together with his robust non-nonsense persona. But watch - you can see him smirking in almost every take. Jojovich is much more obedient and her mute superwoman works under the auteur's direction. The problems are with the silly story line, which not even a powerfully sobering Ian Holm can calm. There are clunky puppetted aliens, Gary Oldman looks like his irascibility comes from the egg growing from his head and a phenomenally irritating Chris Tucker as some sort of shock-jock queen. I know he's meant to rub one up the wrong way, but mon dieu... 4/10
Billed and, for the first 45 mins, playing out as a puzzlebox thriller this is a bit of a snorefest. The acting is phoned in and the direction flails wildly, trying to re-direct our attention so we don't accidentally get the twists before they happen. Well, no worries there - I was so busy hiding behind the sofa from the dreadful contributions of Zoe Saldana, the preposterously underused Sigourney Weaver and "Oscar Winner" Forest Whitaker that I couldn't have cared less.Then something truly remarkable happens. Clearly Pete Travis loses faith in his own movie and abandons the hopeless chopped-up narrative. Amazingly this coincides with the first appearance of the redoubtable Bruce McGill, who could be credited with galvanising everyone around him (in tandem with William Hurt, the A-list on this week's Presidential rota). Dennis Quaid's twitchy Presidential bullet-taker recovers himself to help create one of the better car chases I've seen for a while. There are considerable loose ends which simply end up scattered across the end of the picture like so many bodies or vehicles but at least the final half hour delivers the sort of thrills you cough up for. 5/10
I'm not a notable Melanie Griffith fan by any means but it must be said that she is brilliantly cast in the role of the small time heroine in the Big Apple. Harrison Ford is surprisingly effective as the hunk-on-a-stick; it is not surprising in the slightest bit that Sigourney Weaver is an effectively insidious megalomaniac bitch. This is also the first in a slew of flicks for Joan Cusack's long line of effective supporting girlfriends.Mike Nicholls is a sharp director and succeeds in not only capturing the look of the trapping and tawdriness of the free market explosion but also its unutterably tedious underbelly. Kevin Wade's script is the snappy dramatic and satirical motor at the film's heart to which Nicholls defers. A unimpeachable feelgood movie - although I can't help feeling a sorrow from Nicholls on behalf of his characters who, as in Billy Wilder's The Apartment remain trapped even after the happy ending. 7/10
I liked it but then I think I might have been ironing at the same time. This reworking of Cyrano de Bergerac/Roxanne is an utterly undemanding, formulaic romcom rescued from straight-to-video ignominy on its release by the sharp turn of Janeane Garofalo. Playing the Frasier of Pets, she finds herself caught in a love trap when insecurity leads her to pass her best friend (Uma Thurman) off as herself when a caller comes a-courtin'.This is an interesting film in the fascinating career of Ben Chaplin. An average British actor, he gave the Hollywood treadmill a shot with this film. He is unremarkable and his anonymity in studio productions is unsurprising on the basis of it, although he has appeared in substantial cameos in both the later Terence Malick films. Uma Thurman does a ditzy turn on autopilot and Michael Lehmann packages it all together competently. Icky phone sex though. 4/10
I was reminded of latter Roger Moore Bond films: tepid trading on a previous relationship, humour to distract from the worn-bald plot, the ageing principal going through old motions. This is harsh on Cruise actually, who looks pretty good and still carries the action well. Nonetheless, he occupies set pieces rather than galvanises them.Brad Bird has some good ideas, principally the sandstorm which has great cinematic potential. I like the truncated excitement of the prior episode in Dubai as well, although the composition of the drama is a little uneven - it lacks a natural flow, like mediocre music.Patton is wooden, over-earnest, and Renner is caught as he clearly just wants to have some fun whilst required to be something straighter, darker. Thankfully Simon Pegg relishes his comic role, most effectively when explicitly required to joke in the script. I was intermittently bored 4/10
A perfectly entertaining but perilously shallow film. A re-working of classic bounty hunting Westerns, the all-but-divorced Hardings (Bill Paxton and Helen Hunt) get - excuse me - sucked into trying to deploy cutting edge meteorological technology directly into a Twister. Another crew equipped with 'DOROTHY' (yes, that's the name of the device, I kid you not) is after the prize as well. The Mexican stand-off of competing weather teams, deadly whirlwind and undiminished spousal tension is the drama that keeps the film alive.In the meantime we are subject to some violent but rather wonderful special effects. One imagines the excitement is not dissimilar to that which the Lumiere brothers inflicted on unsuspected cinematic virgins with foreshortened trains careering towards the screen a century ago. That's the appeal of the film and if you go for that it's a winner. 5/10
This monster budget hostage thriller relies very heavily on its cast, cloistered, as they are, in and around an aircraft for most of the film. Luckily it's a solid ensemble, with the capricious Malkovich on a good run of form during the 90s.Nicholas Cage is the tarnished hero who finds himself on the airborne equivalent of a mutineered ship. He wears a very, very silly wig. Cusack is the straight guy to this Tarzan-Bruce Willis amalgam, calling the shots from the ground and bringing Monica Poe, as Cage's wife Tricia into the picture. Steve Buscemi offsets the Dr Evil Malkovich by being utterly deranged. Throw in some super stunts and it's all good fun in the end. 5/10
A serviceable thriller notable for its star-sprinkled cast and the draw of having genre-bunny Sylvester Stallone amongst them. In fact it's not such a big leap for Stallone. His pen-pusher sheriff turned righteous vigilante is a suburban Rambo; his hearing impediment and easy-going community cop character is a statutory version of Rocky.Stallone's acting was something of a revelation for me at the time. I agreed with many who decided that this was a different, previously unseen acting capability on show. It's actually not quite that radical, being more the case that he simply holds his own in an excellent cast. He does affect his trademark intensity though, which is just what's needed. De Niro runs the show, obviously enjoying the chance to get stuck into a procedural-thriller and there are nasty baddies essayed by Keitel, Liotta and the slimy Frank Vincent. 6/10
There's plenty to admire in this first film by writer-director J Blakeson. There's not much wrong with it either, although there are a number of things I felt it missed, or left a bit loose. One has to wonder if a first-time independent auteur is working to a timescale and budget which simply forces his hand.The film is a slightly unconventional heist-thriller (for heist read kidnap) which has a number of strategically placed twists. Even if one can see half of them coming, they're well-placed in the story and well executed on the screen. I looked forward to more of the Guy Ritchie- style jump-cut montage of action as the villains go about their job, but in this - as in the disorientating abstraction of the setting - Blakeson is not quite consistent. This may be to do with the treatment of Alice herself, who's never shown as a person suffering in her own right but simply the victim of the men, who are, to me, who the film is about. I found the denouement shallow and uninvolving as a result.Still the cut and thrust of the film is often truly gripping with great acting from all three - yes, even Arteton, about whom I have had serious doubts - and some premium camera-work from the DoP Philipp Blaubach. It may have the aspirations of a high-end TV drama but it has the look of a proper feature. 5/10
I really enjoyed this film, a light-touch but securely handled record of Woodstock from the perspective of a hen-pecked Jewish hick. This is partly as Ang Lee introduces all the hurdles and hitches that confront the pleasantly naive Elliot but then lets them dissolve away, so we're left with little more than peace & love. Man.This is the problem with this film. Ang Lee's sensible approach is to tell the story of a bit-part player in the famous event, letting the main action wash past in montage and peripheral incident. However he lets the local incidents get caught on the tide; gangsters, health & safety inspectors, angry locals, the boy's sexual awakening. There's plenty of significance but no epiphany.Maybe this is how Ang Lee wants it. I loved the pace and texture of the film. It's really groovy. Demetri Martin is the latest in a super recent crop of young, understated Jewish actors (also Michael Cera, Wallace Wolodarsky) and the British duo of Henry Goodman and Imelda Staunton are brilliant beside him. I also liked the impossibly beautiful Jonathan Groff as Michael Lang who, in his native American jacket, blissed-out demeanour and often riding a horse is like some sort of fairy Godmother.There's a great deal going on in this film and, in time, it may prove to reveal itself as the work of concealed genius. For the time being though it's a pleasant matinée for a teenage date. 6/10
There's plenty to enjoy in this serious, unintentionally contemporary thriller. I think Tom Twyker gets bogged down though: from the start the film looks in danger of becoming a straightforward murder mystery when it's plain that there are bigger fish to fry.Like its obvious predecessor, The Peacemaker (or even its other sibling, The Interpreter), it's essentially a star vehicle action thriller for a pair of bankable A-listers. Also like The Peacemaker it's a film for the guy (Clooney/Owen) above the girl (Kidman/Watts), and has a significant, dramata-righteous central role for Armin Mueller-Stahl (dependable in both). The Peacemaker is a more honest film, careering from one crisis to the next. The International has greater pretensions and consequently comes across as, simply, more leaden. Nods to Quantum of Solace (Lago di Garda) and Bourne III (Islamic rooftop chase) burden rather than bolster its credentials. Owen is a bit heavy-handed - a bit phoned-in shouty - and I feel that Naomi Watts is sold short by both script and director.Nonetheless it's perfectly entertaining, with a particularly memorable set piece in the NY Guggenheim. One problem - the prinicipal theme of the otherwise functional soundtrack sounds exactly like the T Mobile ad jingle. Surprisingly distracting. 5.5/10
A typically farcical satire from Chris Morris. The action and humour follows an inept prospective terrorist cell; the satire and drama comes from the men being normal, aspirant-working-class Northern Asians.I found it funny, after the Monty Python model of riffing on surreal ideas. Unfortunately - again, just like Monty Python - that model is a sketch-based conceit and simply can't sustain a feature-length drama in which there's no investigation of why the men choose to cook up their own intifada. This may be a calculated omission by Morris, leaving blanks in which we are to pour our own assumptions. Satire is at its best when the drama feeds back directly to the experiences of its audience and that may be what he's trying to achieve. For my part, I found I'd used up my patchy knowledge of the situation early on. The purposefulness (and consequently, humour) of the film was exhausted for me about halfway through. Riz Ahmed is excellent as Omar, fleshing out Morris' etiolated script with great professionalism and character. The rest of the cast follow suit. I rather liked the understated, cross-cultural soundtrack too, at least as good as Alexandre Desplat's for Syriana. As to the film itself however, I feel that, in the final analysis, it rides the madness of misplaced domestic jihad rather than tackle it. 5/10
It's easy to get sidetracked by the modernism and innovation of the film. I found it enjoyable because of the fresh and frisky storytelling. Kane is an archetypal tragic-protagonist acquiring vast wealth in order to try and fill the reciprocally hollowing vacuum inside. It's an old story but sold to us with verve and comedy.Orson Welles strides through the film eschewing the wearying and embattled self-pity until the very last moment. Surely PT Anderson took as much notice of this when preparing There Will Be Blood as he did of the malignant Noah Cross in Polanski's Chinatown? I found the deeply overlapping dialogue a little contrived and trying at times, but if it's sole purpose was to lend realism or, rather, a realistic dynamism to the film it succeeds. Sharply observed in script and inventively committed to film, the movie's value is in its oft-aped legacy as much as in the matinée auditorium. 7/10
There's a moment at the very end when Mel Gibson's Hamlet, suddenly gripped by poison, looses his footing. It's shocking, natural and a terrible surprise, even to him. Such is the momentum of this melodramatic, almost operatic version of Hamlet that the audience's legs are torn from under them as well. I like this very much, a Hamlet performed by a company with respect but not reverence for the text, converting the script into movie drama not simply committing it to camera.Zeffirelli's biggest coup might be the setting, a damp and distant medieval fortress at odds with Gibson's modern, witty but clearly unbalanced Prince. The British cast assembled around him are very fine - I think Alan Bates would have to be my ideal Claudius. Glenn Close's Gertrude is rather spiky but this highlights her predatory sexuality which (I think) suits this arrangement. Morricone's score is bonus. 8/10
A gags vehicle. It's not quite as brazen as Police Squad, Naked Gun etc. but it gives that famous canon a run for its money. In fact, Steve Carrell - funny guy though he is - would do well to take a look at how Leslie Nielsen et al incorporate the stand alone gag into the rhythm of the film at hand. Too often I sat bored, half-amused but aware that the film was being stalled.I rather like the way Carrell pitches his spoof field agent. He's not an out-and-out incompetent like, say, Johnny English. Instead he's rather more knowing about the jokes. This is level of postmodern meta-character is always tricky - at what point does it simply become Carrell doing stand up? - but he pulls it off. He has a good cast about him. Anne Hathaway is game but never ridiculous so she stays at his level. Dwayne Johnson is merely a comic trope which he does OK. I liked the sharp (timing and aggression) turn from Alan Arkin best of all.For all this, the film is pretty lame with telegraphed jokes and a serious bias to toilet/slapstick humour over wit. 3/10
A really super, stirring film that can be forgiven for occasionally stepping over the line of melodrama. But then the film does all sorts of odd and unexpected things, such Emile Hirsch actually playing directly into the camera and Penn doing working in all sorts of old-school location shoots and stunts.If the film has a weakness, it's that it can't quite make up its mind about the nature of Chris' disaffection. There are two separate strands of argument: that he's running from his dysfunctional parents; and that he's running from modern, consumerist society. That there might be unifying link between the two is never really pursued. This is the issue in adapting the film from a non-fiction book, the book clearly being fascinatingly analysis proof.Of course, this may be all the more reason to try and recycle the book in a film. Certainly it magnifies the worth of Chris McCandless' life, gives his moral independence form and worth and thus, no doubt, provides succour to grieving parents.Yet the film, as ever, should be judged apart from is background and its stands up very well. Hirsch is outstanding, a career watershed performance. I was particularly impressed how he managed to retain a sense that Chris isn't abandoning the world, but simply seeking its outer edges. The final tragedy comes as we all know that Hirsch-Chris has every intention of returning.My admiration for Sean Penn the director grows too. If The Pledge was a robust exercise in compassionate film-making, Penn pays more lip-service to his main vocation by allowing melodrama to creep in where, perhaps, he might have not before. This is a minor criticism and one I'd be prepared to retract on a second viewing.A super story of considerable pathos, well-told. 8/10
For all its grandstanding kitchen-sinkery, The Fighter is almost unbelievable. The narrative of redemption is hackneyed both for boxers and junkies but seems most unlikely when taken together. It is however a strength of this film and, moreover, its exceptional ensemble cast that makes the story not only credible but also plausible.Christian Bale is a fine actor but bears the twin albatross of the colossal Batman franchise and one or two less good film choices. His charismatic Dicky in this film might be a touchstone role of what he is capable. Full of energy which is dangerously close to spilling the wrong way he affects the whole cast who follow his lead, especially in tandem with Melissa Leo's mother Alice. The two are a formidable pair, teetering on the edge of disaster and giving complex performances where the choice of doing the right thing isn't perfectly black and white. I also enjoyed Amy Adams' proud but self-disappointed Charlene. Wahlberg is perfectly cast for his limited palette.A film that could so easily slip into the mold-trappings of so many films, The Fighter succeeds because it is a fine vehicle for character. 7/10
Were it not for the talents and irresistible good looks of the principals, I might have left early, bored. As it is, it serves as a rudimentary vehicle for the considerable gifts of Gyllenhaal and Hathaway. What other points there are to be made about the pharmaceutical industry, the social impact of Viagra or the bleak home truths of love are sadly lost.Part of my disappointment with the film then is that there's so much unrealised potential. This is, actually, a document of social change comparable with The Social Network. There's no doubt that the impact of Viagra in the late 90s on the baby-boomer generation helped inflate the bubble of world growth throughout the Noughties - prosperity that is at conflict with the selfless altruism that Jamie eventually reconciles himself with. Similarly, the coach journeys for impecunious Chicagoeans to get their drugs from across the border are left as a thin device for taking Maggie away from Jamie, with no further investigation. The script's not bad but it clearly thins out in the second half of a film that's half an hour too long anyway.I got half of what I wanted though, which was to see some good old- fashioned A-list charisma and chemistry. It's just a shame it not only gets manipulated by a rather lazy Zwick but also wasted in the service of a better film twiddling its thumbs waiting to be let out. 4/10
In many respects, a similar film to There Will Be Blood, The Master starts with a virtuoso sequence establishing a man's background (PT Anderson loves a tracking shot!) and goes on to essay the power- struggles and cultural trajectory of modernising America.The drama at the heart of this heady, if opaque film is more abstract than There Will Be Blood. Rather like John Fowles' fine novel The Magus, the story fragments, dissolving into a confusing, dynamic movie in which the two principals seem bound only by themselves. Soon bound only by their own relationship and it's subtle, tilting one-upmanship, it can become difficult to know what the film at large is about.There are terrific performances, if - as in There Will Be Blood - the improvising gets a little edgy. Amy Adams as herself a powerful character is the equal of Philip Seymour Hoffman and Joaquin Phoenix in their pivotal roles. Once again, Jonny Grenwood's original score accounts for a significant role in the drama, if not quite the absent character of the Oil! adaptation. It's a highly assured work of cinema - which it needs to be to sustain its 147 minutes running time. I was unsettled and fairly puzzled but not bored. 6/10
A much better film than its critical mauling would have you believe. Sure, there are a number of occasions in which his shtick goes on too long. Really though it's a perfectly well-told comic whodunnit with an almost impossibly long roster of top-notch British acting talent both celebrated and obscure. Both this film and its (dour) predecessor Match Point are rich pickings for those who like to play spot-the-thesp.Scarlett Johansson is excellent as Woody Allen's muse-du-jour, really understanding the stammering, tumbling, self-contradicting cadences of his own dialogue (in which, as noted, he participates, occasionally trying my patience). I was a little surprised though that the estimable Hugh Jackman seems rather more brittle - rather like his (also British) character in Chris Nolan's fine The Prestige he can slip into stagey, large-gesture acting now and then. Once again though, the city of London is a terrific player in the drama. Allen is sensitive to both the stereotypes that an American audience can reasonably expect but also the anonymous, modest but unique modernity of Noughties London that he captures without fuss. 6/10
An unsettling, depressing film recreating an actual near-miscarriage of justice. Hitchcock really works the noir of this b&w film. It's cold, shadowy and unlovely. With so much of the film set in the stairwells, streets and municipal offices of nighttime New York there is ample room for Hitchcock to paint the screen with the harsh black brush strokes of expressionist malice and paranoia.Henry Fonda does a sympathetic job as the everyman caught in a Kafka-lite spiral of faceless process as a single person mistakes his identity. However, the film is really about the collapse of his happy family life under the strain. Hitchcock manages this well through a commensurately good performance from Vera Miles. Although both performances suffer from Hitchcock's inevitable directorial strictures this is a film particularly suited to the angular, helpless stillness etched into the principals' faces. Fascinating but troubling. 6/10
An excellent studio action thriller. Tony Scott's approach to some complicated and, frankly, barely credible science fiction is to get his cast to race through it, shouting at one another. It's an effective ploy, at once patronising but dramatically taut. Even if you'd normally switch off during exposition like this, you're aware that it's important, frightening and crucial to the plot. And gives Denzel Washington a chance to freak out.In fact I think that Scott really buys the whole 'time travel' element, which is well incorporated into the story. I think Washington does to, although his job is more about making the resulting twists work. He is as watchable as ever; equivalent to 90s Harrison Ford, nothing he does is anything less than bankable.I wish more studio flicks would turn out like this. The crazy science become a function of the plot, not it's raison d'etre. The principal actor is committed, not phon(y)ing in a role. The first-rate special effects are in-camera - vast pyrotechnics, no principal CGI. Even the music's good - borrowed from Bourne, but effective. A tweak in the script going from the first to second acts and it would have been a real winner. 7/10
Anne Fontaine sticks to the remit in this biopic by ignoring the Chanel that most of us are familiar with, i.e. the world-leading brand name in world couture. Instead we get an idiosyncratic, occasionally dramatic but strangely lightweight account of Gabrielle 'Coco' Chanel's formative years as a cabaret act on the run. Audrey Tatou's compelling but unsympathetic Coco insinuates herself into the company of a moneyed aristocrat (Poelvoorde's Étienne Balsan). Fontaine's camera follows her as she see-saws between the hungry absorption of timeless country style in her surroundings and creative repulsion towards the glazed bourgeoisie whom she must suffer.The only real issue with this film is that most of the its drama only comes from knowing who the protagonist goes on to become. There is next to no mention of Chanel's postwar success and influence. Instead we get the only real styling howler of the film - using contemporary models for a 'catwalk' show that's meant to be no later than the mid-1960s - and a text afterword of dubious use. It's competently, reverently assembled though. 6/10
One expects a film that's a cut above from the most famous collective creation of Jim Henson. For all that The Muppets tries all sorts of different twists on the reunion gig genre though, we can see them coming. Adults groan at the in- and meta-jokes. For example Chris Cooper's pantomime baddie shouts out 'maniacal laugh!' in place of laughing and montage or illustrated sequences are introduced self-consciously as such. The puppets themselves are an undying source of fun but the children in my screening seemed strangely unmoved. Perhaps there was too much nostalgia, or too much interaction with adults, period.It's slick but professionalism doesn't take the place of the magic (we see a tantalising glimpse of Peter Sellars on the original Muppet Show early on). Adult cameos are averagely taken, Emily Blunt's reprisal of her secretary to Piggy's Streep/Wintour a particularly flat case-in-point. Worst of all, the songs are largely not just uninspired but poor. The best part of the cinema experience was the excellent prior Toy Story short. 4/10
A lot of hot air has been expended as to whether this film is a new Indiana Jones franchise-in-construction. It's not - it's closer to Lara Croft if anything, with it's very simple sequences, plastic technology and clowning in place of action.Nick Cage doesn't have the wit of Harrison Ford by a whip's length. His acting has become self-definingly awful, almost from the moment he picked up his Oscar (?! oh yes, he did). Where comparator Mel Gibson has spread himself, securing successes in directing, Cage has clung to acting like a spoiled child to a birthright. Ugh.There are banker baddies flown in in Keitel and Sean Bean and Diane Kruger looks great (I think she's a pretty good actress too, but I guess everyone has to have a franchise on the got these days). Jon Voight's a mess and Bartha does his job admirably - i.e. to make everyone look better than they ought. 3/10
Given that everyone dislikes everyone else it's amazing that this particular heist crew every get their act together. Such is the brittle, temperamental backdrop to David Mamet's tightly coiled thriller in which the second, Mission Impossible-style bullion heist is set up by a paranoia-breeding run on diamond stock.I'm not quite sure what comparative unknown Rebecca Pidgeon was doing on a film that had a cast that guaranteed the studio getting its investment back. She is a little awkward but good and certainly no less at home than Sam Rockwell's thorn-in-the-flesh tag-along. The film is inevitably about Gene Hackman's criminal mastermind; whilst he looks a bit odd in the cut and thrust of the action he lends the project a sense of paranoia which cushions the plot lurches. Delroy Lindo, Danny Jay and Danny DeVito are the bankable support. 7/10
Yes, OK, pretty much what you'd expect. The problem is that there has to be some sort of development from the first: the characters have to get a bit deeper, the perils more holocaustic. Ioan Gruffudd has sufficient range to make this work; Jessica Alba has the only real dialogue with an on-form Fishburne (voicing the surfer), so she's sorted. The problem is that much of the film's appeal is in Chris Evans' wisecracking wideboy Johnny - and so to open him up they get him in a sulk. Boring.As for the imminent destruction of the world - well, actually, that's what they go for (meaning, of course, that 4: iii will be about the destruction of the solar system). It's a bit much. Talking of lacking credence, I like Julian McMahon but he's lacking a real gravitas to carry off von Doom.It's fast and funny but flippant and ultimately flimsy. Naturally. 4/10
"Who is the subject of this documentary?" is the question you must ask yourself. Is it the grizzly bear of one half of the title? Or is it the man who died in collating the footage? Does 'Grizzly Man' apply to him (Tim Treadwell) or to a generic man (who he represents) in regressive search of his primordial nature?This fascinating construction using 'over 100 hours of tape' and interviews with amateur naturalist Tim Treadwell's friends and family is all of these. It's also a documentary about The Filmmaker. Throughout, Herzog makes comments about how Treadwell is using the camera to record situations, how it changes him and what the camera actually captures. This part of the documentary on its own is quite fascinating and serves to deconstruct some of the more complicated parts of the character of Tim Treadwell, which inevitably come under scrutiny.Treadwell is indeed the film's principal subject though. I particularly like the conceit that Herzog manufactures (but is none the less true for that), which concerns appearances of Treadwell's girlfriend Amie Huguenard. We see her in four parts of the film, notably in a sequence in which Herzog points out how oblique her presence is - how she is clearly present in some way but seems at odds to Treadwell's nature - retiring, scared of the bears, obscure (her family absent themselves from the film). Later we discover, from a poignant audio record, that for all her nebulousness she ultimately fought the agent of both Treadwell and her death in a moment of unspeakable violence (shown only as a reaction of the director listening to the record on camera). It's as Herzog construes that Treadwell's better, human part was accidentally captured on camera during the haphazard way in which he recorded himself over the period of his Alaskan sojourns.The only drawback is the troubling, pretentious contribution of the local coroner, a man only too aware of the camera in a way the others aren't. Recommended 8/10
A predecessor of Buffy The Vampire Slayer and a peripheral but important member of the mid-80s high school flick boom. It's pleasant, unpatronising, cute but not cheesy and utterly predictable. Well, apart from one small but brilliant twist in the middle.Michael J Fox does for comic intensity what Tom Cruise went on to do for its melodramatic counterpart - believability. Part of the trick is his cool-geek freshness Scott Howard is just as cool as the Wolf he becomes. Chuck in some pretty classic tropes: the (sexually ambiguous) 'character' Stiles, played frenetically by Jerry Levine and the girl next door Boof, mercifully unmoody in Susan Ursitti's performance. And of course, the 10 year old salivates at every entrance of Lorie Griffin, who is an unimpeachable vamp in the memory if not on the screen.And that's the catch. With the possible exception of Miles Goodman's score, it's dated. So I prefer 'vintage'. 5/10
A wonderful film, but one that left me struggling with some contradictions. Deneuve's Séverine is a pale, unfulfilled bourgeois housewife who undertakes to give herself what her conventional husband cannot by trying her hand at The Game. From the start Buñuel uses a mix of disorienting realist solipsism (we see Séverine abused, only to understand it has been her daydreaming through an abrupt cut) and a Gallic equivocation towards contemporaneous feminism to shake things up. The discreet brothel Séverine joins is a modest but professional institution in which naivety is barely tolerated. There is titillation in the film but not pornography - the one scene of violent sex is shown as the aftermath of a bedroom-razing scuffle from which Séverine emerges elated. Buñuel is clearly interested in generating the musk of sex visually for the audience but only in order to correctly couch his psychological drama.That drama touches on a number of things outside the sexual transaction, of course. This is a film entirely of its time and place both globally of the mid-sixties and ahead of equality-demanding soixante-huitard Parisians. Séverine has chosen prostitution freely; she uses the venal attention of men for her own maturation. Consequently, I couldn't help thinking of a post-Vichy subtext alongside this classic feminist conceit. The end of the film troubles me as I try to extrapolate its symbolism in a similar fashion. Though a dramatic reckoning is necessary for Buñuel to close out the film (the confrontation between Séverine's id- and ego-life is conventional, cathartic), the coda is a mystery buried in the magic-realism hitherto employed.Symbols, narrative & sexual fantasising aside, I was impressed with the (YSL) costuming, design and photography of the film. Above all, the location shooting of Spring-misty Paris is unspeakably beautiful. The acting is sometimes stiff with autered instruction but that doesn't constrict Deneuve's conviction which insinuates itself throughout the film like a mist of Chanel No.5. 7/10
A terribly downbeat, overlong but gripping film about extraordinary events on ordinary lives. Juts prior to being drafted to go to Vietnam friends in an American steelworkers backwater are preparing for a marriage. Their close-woven friendships come under intolerable strain when thy suffer capture and abuse on duty. The film reunites the remaining friends in a drained epilogue of pity and pain.It could be argued that this film is a satire on small-time America, were it not that the characters are so honest and their grief so genuine. The Deer Hunter of the title also points in this direction but I had the feeling that this was a paen to American's beloved gunsports rather than a criticism.My own feeling is that the film is to be taken at face value. The acting is so sustained and intense there's not much of a chance to look elsewhere to be honest. The Russian roulette sequences are rendered all but unbearably real by De Niro and Walken - the film may be about casting a man's character in the fire of war as steel is cast in a mill but you have to worry for an actor's sanity when he puts himself through this! The film has a pleasant guitar melody as a recurring theme which is overused these days at funerals... 6/10
First of all, it needs to be said that F For Fake is an entertaining film as quick witted as it is briskly edited and strongly featuring Orson Welles on superb form. The bulk of the film concerns the art forger Elmyr de Hory in a separate documentary made for the BBC in 1970 by François Reichnbach. But Welles' overdubbed introduction, his re- worked edition of Reichenbach's work and the tumbling, fragmented overlaid additions including those of his girlfriend Oja Kodar and the hagiographically soft-focused Chartres cathedral turn this into an extended solipsism of what counts as 'real'. The art 'forgeries', driven by the market might not have been forged by the artist but by the dealer - and of course, works that have been on gallery walls for years are now the art anyway. The most famous artist of them all, Pablo Picasso, is quoted as denying his own work with 'even the real Picasso can make a fake Picasso' before the film dissolves into a dubious narrative about how Oja duped the artist into producing an entire period of his own work that retrospectively he couldn't claim. All the while, Welles brings up moments in his career in his steady, articulate, confiding drawl, reminding us that he started as famous and everything declined from there - the same trajectory of fame as that 'enjoyed' by the builders of Chartres cathedral, a totem of civilisation whose provenance is entirely irrelevant. The whole film is quick, colourful, sexy and fun and rendered even more so by the light but cultured jazz touch of Michel Legrand. 7/10
This is a very violent movie but if you can cope with that it's also rather wonderful. An undercover cop thriller, the movie's greatest asset are the five or so grand-scale, meticulously choreographed and beautifully filmed action sequences - the last being the most preposterous but most affecting, bringing apocalypse to a working hospital. John Woo casts his signature in bronze here: wistful slo-mo, romantic overlay which borders on magic realism and melodramatic music. James Leung's production design is modern and exciting and makes the glossy most of a considerable budget.Yun-Fat Chow moved on to become a Hollywood star on the back of his association with John Woo, a passage in which Hard Boiled (its western title) was instrumental. He's terrific in this film, slightly laconic compared with the rest of the cast, setting him apart and making him cool. Tony Leung Chiu Wai (Tony) is arguably the better actor of the two male leads and has gone on to make better films but works perfectly with Yun-Fat. One to see on its own terms. 7/10
The title, Let The Right One In, could refer to a couple of issues. It could be a reference to access one's heart, as this film revolves around a touchingly naive love story. Alternatively it could refer to one of the many issues affecting the living dead; vampires cannot cross the threshold of another's home without invitation, apparently.Scrubbing around the interweb suggests that the title comes from a Morrisey song. The former then; a tortured, (sub-)urban paen to tortured love seems to be what Tomas Alfredson had in mind. I'm in two minds about this film. Beautifully shot and produced it's got a cinematic poetry that does most of the pathos wrangling ahead of the script or performances. Alfredson also has a pretty sure grip on blurring the lines between fantasy violence - daydreaming about manhood and retribution - and the actual, horrible facts which the film doesn't shirk.For me though the acting is comprehensively a step below what Alfredson and his project really deserves. Despite the best efforts of Kåre Hedebrant and Lina Leandersson (Oskar and Eli) they don't really know what's going on in the big arc or psychology of their roles much of the time and it's plain for the audience. There are also some odd plot ends flapping about.Nonetheless I recommend this film. Like all purposefully and meticulously constructed work it resonates with all sorts of qualities that might not have been intended. 7/10
A solid, melodramatic-serious film about any number of things. This is a classic Cruise vehicle, requiring action, intensity and off-the-rack moralising that has a lot to do with a principal character in need of redemption. Cruise's Algren, haunted by memories of a dishonourable military episode teeters at the top of the slippery slope where ex-military cash in the chips of their experience as mercenaries, hawking their knowledge in martially 'less developed' countries. His hands-on approach lands him in the enemy camp where the technology void is filled with a very different type of martial asset.This film could be seen as an extended analogy for the culturally and morally benighted invasion of Iraq (or even Afghanistan), especially given the political ramifications suggested during the film; I suspect that the project was green lit for the more innocent appeal of universal truths ancient martial practice. Cruise and his cast are as one might expect and Zwick fashions a solid film from the whole. 6/10
A terrible, incisive indictment of a decade of centrist socialism in Britain. I'm not sure whether that's how it's meant. Patrick Marber's brilliant screenplay really opens up the complex system of weights and pulleys in a women's relationship: Blanchett and Dench are its ideal foils, vulnerable, capricious, resilient, conniving... The whole thing could stand alone as a peculiarly modern Sirk melodrama.The film that Richard Eyre has made though is a richer confection of context, symbolism and sheer pity. The Islington setting is of course the spiritual homeland of the New Labour movement - the school in which the characters come together, a New Labour cause célèbre. Blanchett's faux-bohemian earth-mom Sheba is a target for our disdain through the eyes of Dench's Barbara, barely offset by the emergence of Barbara's own foible-pathologies.The spiralling tragedy is made pitiful as it happens with everyone acting with their eyes open. In this postmodern, middle-class Britain everyone knows the morality and consequences of the risks they take. Everything is regulated - the moments in which the characters clash with one another, unable to explain their actions, are almost a relief for them.Like his music for The Hours, Philip Glass' score has come in for a critical bashing. I agree that it's a monosodium glutamate soundtrack, but as background for a hectoring of New Labour it takes on a refreshed effectiveness. In general the performances are basic or stock - the pupils and supporting cast - or highly dramatic if a little uneven - Blanchett and Nighy. Dench is on a different plane of acting capability. It remains to be seen whether anyone with an Oscar to burn will give this quiet, tragic film the viewing her breathtaking performance deserves. 7/10
The biggest issue with this illegitimately notorious film from Lars von Trier is that it doesn't really say anything at all. There has been a great deal of fuss over the psychological clout of the sex and gore on show; the shock factor. Well, von Trier certainly mocks up one or two moments of unparallelled viciousness but, deprived of some context of argument or drama, they're simply action. They're bearable because their impact is on the retina, not in the mind or heart.Dafoe and Gainsbourg certainly offer up a remarkable inventory of technical acting for von Trier to play with. If the whole film had the pure, causal acting that characterises the opening scene of the first chapter (behind the hearse), by the end I would have crawled out begging for my mother. As it is, von Trier's script is a choppily edited stream of consciousness(es) in which the sexual occult meets the essence of Catholicism.Essentially, it's a film where the director has gone with his Id and used the exercise to get some things off his chest. This isn't new and can be valid - it's how David Lynch works, although most of his films are psychologically more opaque and consequently scarier than this. I honestly don't think that there's a target here, not Catholicism, not the heartlessness of Evolutionism, not even Freud. If anything, one can read most from the dedicatee, Andrei Tarkovsky, on whose Stalker the location, aesthetic and temperament of Antichrist are all based.So the film works cinematically - it looks good and there's a sort of visceral coherence - but it really doesn't amount to much. Because I couldn't follow the impotent dialogue and aimless drama I occasionally felt a bit bored and I certainly wasn't overly affected by the grotesqueries as they clocked themselves up. Noteworthy poesy from von Trier, but nothing substantial. 3/10
A very solid, satisfying film that mitigates against its violence with considerable humour and a genuine romance. As a black farce about the unlikely or queerly viewed assassin there are better (subsequent) movies like Grosse Point Blank or even Leon. Neither of these have the convincing romance of Prizzi's Honour. This is a very useful facet of the film - it's as if the romance is trying to muscle in past the comedy and thriller genres from which the film is constructed and so something has to give.Nicholson gives a rather subdued performance but then he's playing a hit-man not a flamboyant mob boss. Kathleen Turner is a terrific casting decision - like all that Romancing The Stone baloney, she's a strong, comic and romantic co-lead. Robert Loggia isn't a fearsome capo but its really about his daughter, Maerose played slimily by Angelica Huston who sows the seeds of the drama. 5/10
This is a successful experiment in translating the graphic novel to the big screen is a wittier film than the earnest blood and sand epic I had been expecting. There is a lot of shouting and a fair bit of over- earnest statement as dialogue but its leavened by real humour and a visual style which captures the legendary resonance of the story.I found the monochromatics of the digitisation a little dull but I enjoyed that the majority of the acting and fighting is done by real actors. The performances themselves are a little inconsistent but largely good. Gerard Butler is well cast as he has a small, oscillating imperfection of self-doubt and mania which would undoubtedly have been necessary to initiate the mission on which the film is based. Michael Fassbender, David Whenham (fresh from Middle Earth) and Vincent Regan stand out. I wasn't so keen on Dominic West, whose diminishing returns on the TV series The Wire (a contemporaneous hit) and all caught here in a feature role. The design of Xerxes' military collective is its most impressive feature, although the 'Persian' actors are all above average.A winner for those of us viewing with low expectations (!) 5/10
It's not for me but I can see why many people can't get enough of it. It's a musical and falls across many a genre and into none. A sort of sci-fi, comic horror musical, The Rocky Horror Picture Show celebrates the unusual and the outcast and does so with sex and sexuality centre-stage.The plot is rather similar to the manner in which porn films play out: a couple find themselves stranded in the middle of nowhere and the household they are invited into turns out to be a den of nymphomaniacs. Tim Curry is the principal draw of the film, playing the phallic-monikered Frank-N-Furter whose principal predilection is consonant with his cross-dressing. Susan Sarandon and Barry Bostwick (so all-American he went on to play a New York Mayor in the hit sitcom Spin City) are the gradually emancipated couple and play parts with pantomime shock and fear. Richard O'Brien, who wrote the play on which the film is based is the darker presence at this feast of the senses (but it needs something to temper it all).Ultimately, descriptions are difficult if you haven't seen it and redundant if you have. 4/10
Antoine Fuqua here reproduces the solid form of Training Day, constructing an exciting thriller with a muddied moral centre. He's particularly hot on the look and feel of the hoods-in-frame, a nasty at- ease-with-their-ill bunch. He's helped by a number of actors still radiating role-heat from the Baltimore forge that was The Wire. The inevitable Michael K Williams is excellent and matched by Hassan Johson, for all of the brief opportunity he has on the bigger screen.Fuqua has bigger aspirations though and this is where he falls down. The film is a three-way morality play where good men who stray pay heavily but the soiled can find redemption. Deaths are rendered in randomly arty fashion, as if Fuqua is trying to invoke the closing shot of Antonioni's The Passenger, but to no purpose. There's more moral resolution in Herzog's recent 'Bad Lieutenant' and this is because the German director built the arguments into the rest of the film. Fuqua has given us verismo urbanity but little to deserve a grand ethical statement. Don Cheadle is notable above all other leads, otherwise the picture's disposable. 5/10
Marvellous, a slow-building expanse that delivers its punch in its understatement rather than in any climax. You get the sort of canvas that Malick wants to work with from the music, the tumescent opening chord of the 14 hour operatic epic Der Ring des Nibelungen, stretched out over what feels like the first 10 minutes of the film.The music's quite important. Malick juxtaposes Wagner's grand, impressionist Romance with another recurring piece, the intimate and bitter central movement of Mozart's A Minor Piano Concerto no. 23. So goes the movie with an impressive Colin Farrell and the floral Q'orianka Kilcher conducting a timeless love affair conducted amidst an indelible American Eden. The music is the same. Written 200 years prior and on a different continent to the action, the cultural layering does not blur but focuses the experience.Some small things - wonderful costuming and art direction for the 'naturals', even better than that of The Last of the Mohicans or even Apocalypto. I like Christopher Plummer's noble, enlightened Tudor adventurer as much as I was disappointed by Christian Bale's unconvincing nascent tobacco baron.But the film is the determined property of Malick, a slow-breathing montage of the Americas that bears the (inaudible!) narration with it as if populated by vivid ghosts. One wonders just how much the actors knew about their contribution - one does not, in the final analysis, care all that much. 8/10
This movie has a couple of great ones fighting to get out of it. One's a zippy if stock romcom with Aniston and Vaughn firing along at their (considerable) comic best. The other is a darker, more serious number, leavened by the comedy. Neither shows up fully-baked.In fact the film we largely get is the second. The principal cast is brilliant and carries the show, occasionally threatening to hijack it (particularly Favreau/Vaughn set pieces). The script sometimes looks improvised. But the film runs to almost half an hour too long, Peyton indulging his cast from set to editing suite.I enjoyed it though. Any film with Judy Davis in it is automatically worth watching. I'm also a fan of Vaughn and Aniston really chewing the project; where she can do everything from lighting up the screen to genuinely tugging the heartstrings Vaughn has an as-yet-not exploited capability for strong, purposeful on-screen aggression (check out Made). 5/10
From the very start - the titles - it's clear this film is going to be about what one can and can't see. Antonioni's film doesn't restrict itself to the rails of the central thriller plot though. We are confronted (again, from the outset) with the reality of poverty (the doss-house) and its true opposite - the opulence of joy and unfettered imagination (the Tati-like troupe). At the centre of this the marvellously uncategorisable (photographer!) David Hemmings, creator, documentor... the capricious spirit with conservative mien. He records worth in the pretension-vacuum of the doss-house (reworked as the Metro photographer in Haneke's Code Inconnu), strips away the conflagrated layers of it in a frustrating fashion shoot and then spends the heart of the film looking for it in park-shot pictures trusting to nothing but this unlearnt intuition.As a straight thriller the film can, consequently, feel distracted. Yet the film's broad attention makes for a rich and fascinating experience, examining the nature of film-making and casting a critical eye over the burgeoning confidence of youth in all its exuberance and naiveté. For that very reason it's a seminal work in terms of the 1960s (itself the seminal decade of the 20th century) and, alas, the bittersweet launching point for the subsequent plunge into cultural postmodernism. It's also a lot of fun. 8/10
It starts with a wedding. In this well-observed period set-piece there's a nuclear microcosm of the Corleone business - the family - their relationships, characters and roles. The family is both the backbone and burden of capo Vito Corleone's businesses, both licit and nefarious. They are support and affection in a world where betrayal and isolation are twin reapers, yet the sibling rivalry, disaffection and simple disinterest are equal and ever present threats. The Godfather is the story of the self-perpetuating tragedy of this dysfunctional bond of business and family; a grand study of ever-encroaching existential claustrophobia out and inside the home, teamed with dramatic, reactionary Italian hot-headedness.Coppola tells this story with operatic intensity and sweep, conjuring dramatic tension, indelible cinematic images and earnest melodrama. He has one of the great casts - names that became - including Marlon Brando's greatest performance since his work for Elia Kazan in the 1950s. Nino Rota's score is not only celebrated by association but is a perfect compliment to the film, at once stark, woeful and, on blossoming, radiant. 9.5/10
If one watches even casually, one can see any number of previous and indeed subsequent Westerns in this romantic masterpiece by Sergio Leone. What makes this a remarkable film for me is that there is none of the wistful mystery that can be attributed to the genre in broad strokes. Once Upon A Time In The West is not another dusty existential epic, where men kill one another for pride or simply purpose. Even at the remarkable close, hundreds of extras flocking around the desert rose that is Claudia Cardinale's Jill one doesn't get the impression of grief of nostalgia. Instead, the drama is an ungrudging struggle of modern prosperity vs righteousness.We are treated to a masterclass in storytelling. Leone has an unreal grip on the temperament and the pace of the film; once he's set it up in the long, tense prologue during the titles, the rest of the film rolls on at that tempo. There's all the time in the world to take in complementary wide shots of the country and ultra-close-ups of the men's tan-hide faces (with consistently excellent lighting, one might add).And they're worth watching. Robards is the earthy American, Bronson the vengeful Mexican and Fonda the uneasy opportunist, fine performances all round. Cardinale looks comfortable as the principal - the men don't find over her but around her - and she's there in that role not as an attractive diversion. The money (I'd imagine there was a lot of it) is all well-spent and Morricone's score is another winner. 9/10
Brian is a hapless Jewish Mummy's boy who falls in with a Hassidic guerrilla movement. Trying to escape the attentions of the police (a Roman occupation force) he is mistaken for a Messiah. These situations mutually inflame one another and he's arrested, sent to crucifixion and abandoned by all the groups of which he'd become a part during the film.Life Of Brian is, like so much of the Python's output, a series of sketches. The New Testament lends itself perfectly to this picaresque approach, being a record of a series of incidents. Yet the humour is equal parts political satire as well - the sketches swing between loosely reworking scenes from the New Testament and lampooning modern-day politics by way of Roman 'civility'. There's also a welcome spattering of nonsense.Graham Chapman plays Brian which means he's the straightest character rather than the most important. The team play a number of different types - to try and isolate a favourite would do the others an injustice. It's brilliantly scripted, rather astonishingly well-shot and so funny you'll be rendered incontinent. 9/10
The Keep promises much. A super cast start to play out an interesting analogy: is the keep keeping something out - or in? A priest-like janitor and his sons disappear after their initial contribution, which is psychiatrist-like in its open-ended explanation of the building. Only the village priest, with his 'simple minded faith' manages the best response to the discovery that the lesser of two evils is still evil.The film is doomed to special effect-dom the moment the sinister entity of The Keep begins to take on a form. The various incarnations, rather like Jeff Goldblum's various stages of mutations in The Fly, are pretty close to risible and not helped by a hackneyed voicing. A lot is owed to the supernatural effects of The Raiders of the Lost Ark, with its rudimentary light-shows, dry ice and projections. One can also see where the Pet Shop Boys got the idea for using McKellen in a similarly Gothic role for the video for Heart.The Keep is not so much a disaster as a disappointment; Mann's use of music and his stylish shooting give way to the B-movie razzle dazzle rather than become it. Alas, he is also consistent - the love-making scene is really rather clumsy in the way that the corresponding sequences in Miami Vice fail to satisfy. 3/10
I was prepped. I'd watched Taken again. I like Diane Kruger. I saw, during the credits, that Bruno Ganz is in the film. It could have been awesome.Instead, a film that should have run 85 mins dribbled towards two hours. There's so much excess in this film, killing the pace, cooling the drama. It's like being stuck in a traffic jam - every time things get moving you come to a halt again almost immediately. The worst, patronisingly bad bit is that everything gets re-stated. Sometimes you get told things that didn't need to be said once.The culprit is Timothy Alverson, the editor, who should have done better. Perhaps he did the whole thing with a hangover. It feels like it. There's not much more blame to apportion although Alverson's comprehensive failings reveal that Liam Neeson is in fact a 2nd tier actor in this genre. The tightly controlled thrills of Taken may be ascribed to a better production team.Everyone else just goes through paces... except Ganz. Whenever he's on screen it's ever so slightly unpredictable. Though awkward on the treadmill of the production I found it absorbing. Another wasted contribution. Berlin looks rather lovely though, especially the final shot (under the credits - you're getting the idea). 4/10
Even before one gets onto the mixed performances and self-consciously edit-propelling of the story I was somewhat put off by the oleaginous slick of the HD in which this adaptation of Wilde is filmed. For a tale that pops out of the shadows - with its supernatural themes, hallucinatory episodes, nightlife scenes and the simple chiaroscuro of the (book's) titular picture - this is too well-lit, too glossy a film.In addition to this I found Ben Barnes' Dorian a profoundly neutral character. Metaphorically botoxed by his unwitting compact with his portrait it's as if the actor has assumed the same attitude in front of the camera. It doesn't help that Barnes is surrounded by some pretty strong performers in Colin Firth, Fiona Shaw and latterly Rebecca Hall; I might also mention Johnny Harris' James Vane, a strong showing in such an ensemble cast, and the all-but cameo of Maryam d'Abo (whose beauty, ironically, even prosthetic ageing cannot disguise).The nail in the coffin of this exercise may well be the snuff-movie comic scenes of sex and gore. I also considered whether Oliver Parker's excessive grip on the story is some extra layer of overdeterminism to further stretch the sense of the meta, the occult that the film toys with. I doubt it. 4/10
Eurgh. James McAvoy will be deeply ashamed of this posturing, witless action cartoon. Borrowing heavily from the superior The Matrix, the film has a lot of rather passé bullet-time and magic realism. It also has a Carrie-Anne Moss-a-like in Angelina Jolie (no acting required, so she doesn't), rescuing McAvoy's accountant from his own tawdry/'endangered' life. And it's at this point that a silly, poorly scripted, stingily-acted teenage onanist's aid becomes ugly, pernicious slop.McAvoy falls in with his new 'allies' through being flattered, bribed and violently bullied. He's fed a toilet-paper thin spiel that's opaquely theological (Morgan Freeman should join McAvoy in the stocks for allowing himself to retch up this nonsense). Despite a blindingly obvious twist that's meant to mitigate against the terrorist-brainwashing subtext, the film slyly retains the accrued baggage of violence-glorification. This culminates in a horrible pay-off consonant with the warped tough-talk of the socially disenfranchised perpetrators of recent American college campus shootings. Whilst I'm sure this is unintentional, the loafing naiveté that allowed this final cut in the absence of any (better) ideas should see director Timur Bekmambetov and his brainless team put out to pasture. Swill. 1/10
A love letter to the madness of New York. It might seem a comic situation but I'd imagine there have been many more odd services on sale in the Big Apple than spectre-pest-control, especially in the de-regulated market culture at its height in 1984.It's a great credit to director Reitman and the strong ensemble cast that Bill Murray's craggy, cynical testing of the comic edges of the script stays within the spirit of the comedy. He's as wild and idiosyncratic as any notable straight acting performance. It is a super script though and Ramis and Ackroyd deserve even more credit for it than their own able performances.Not wanting to sound perverse, my favourite bit of Ghostbusters is the end-credit sequence in which the triumphant quartet meet the adoring public. Even as a child I could see that it was barely staged and that these men were cultural heroes of the greatest city on earth. 8/10
A very powerful film, not always seamless but surely the best British romantic epic since The English Patient. McEwan's (excellent) book has been well transcribed to screen by Joe Wright borrowing shadows & ghosts of ideas from many other films. The result is his own though, a challenging, searing occasionally unbearable film embracing love, war, guilt and the very texture of truth and story-telling.James MacAvoy's is the top performance of the film, giving both barrels - easy charm and violent passion - to carry all else with it. I have an irrational indifference to Keira Knightley who is very good, and can say no more. Saoirse Ronan as the 13-yr-old Briony is outstanding: prim, sharp and fickle.There's plenty more to isolate - I was pleased to have to retract early prejudice against the seeming contrivance of the score and the different perspective flashbacks. Both are not only useful devices but also integral to the story. I also think that Gina McKee just defies directorial wiles in her small but utterly vital cameo.An courageous, noble but deeply sad film. 8/10
A hugely entertaining action vehicle for Vincent Cassel on fine form. One can't help but think of it in terms of its close comparitors: Michael Mann's Public Enemies, a biopic of American gangster John Dillinger, is still on general release; and Steven Soderbergh's Che (Part One) was playing on the screen in the next-door auditorium. Not only is this Mesrine a more entertaining character than both Depp's Dillinger and Benicio Del Toro's Che Guevara, the bipartite biopic is a more entertaining film. That's not to say it's better though.In this first part, we are shown Mesrine the career criminal. He gets underway with little backstory or prompting, and plays out the film as an increasingly autonomous bank robber. There's no empire building, no examination of the criminal mind or relationships, peripheral or central. It's basically a cycle of robbery, jailbreak and swagger: a brisk, urban updating of the gentleman highwayman.This makes for a punchy criminal escapade, nicely shot in well-judged industry-standard-Greengrass-cam by Robert Ganz and lovingly charted with well-dated design by Emile Ghigo. Cécile de France's moll Jeanne is as subordinate as Marion Cotillard's Billie to Depp's Dillinger. I would have liked to have seen more of Elena Anaya's Sofia, both actor and character, who promised to be a significant figure in the Mesrine mythology but goes the same way as even the mighty Depardieu. By the end I was looking forward to the second instalment to develop something a little more revealing, or at least complex. 7/10
Any film that start with Bach's St Mathew Passion either has delusions of considerable grandeur or is going to be a tragic tale of moral comeuppance. Fortunately - we've come to the cinema to be entertained - we get both in equal measure in this Goodfellas-in-the-workplace drama. Joe Pesci continues the concentrated streak of spittle-flecked nastiness with which he burned evry brightly in the early 90s. Robert De Niro is very effective, slow burning and unsettling.The big draw for me is the surprising, standout performance of Sharon Stone, remoulding the Pfeiffer/dePalma/Scarface moll as a sassy opportunist. For, in fact, Casino isn't primarily a film about gangsters but about a casino: the game, the society, the power struggles. It shows how in trying to twist fate to work unfailingly and consistently to advantage, corruption is as inevitable as mildew. To this end I also like the considerable support cast, be they heavies, players, feds or extras playing with realism. Scorsese keeps the film zippy for all its length (it's a good movie to compare with The Departed) and Bach is just the opening gambit in another fine soundtrack selection. 7/10
Need for Speed is a great movie with a very enjoyable storyline and a very talented cast.The story is certainly nothing new or original,and the trailers don't make it seem like its going to be any different to the Fast and Furious movies but it is very enjoyable and dosen't feel like a carbon copy of previous car related films.What made this movie for me was its extremely confident cast,I am a huge fan of Aaron Paul,because of Breaking Bad of course,and I didn't think he would be able to deliver the same level of great acting as he does in Breaking Bad,but,while Tobey Marshall is certainly not Jesse Pinkman,he still delivers an outstanding performance,he clearly has a great movie career ahead of him and this is his first film since Breaking Bad finished,and there's no doubt he has more great performances ahead of him.I also really enjoyed Imogen Potts and Dominic Copper's performance,these are two actors I've heard of,but haven't seen in anything previously,but after seeing them in this I look forward to seeing them in more films.After he is let out of prison,Tobey Marshall sets out to seek revenge against the man who framed him for the death of his friend.
Like the lad's magazines whose custom base this 'film' is aimed at, there are models posing as actors without much clothing and a pair of unlikely lads cracking post-Pegg & Frost type jokes. The script is indescribably bad, beige chat peppered with hokey, irony-impermeable Medievalisms and stumbling over James Corden's psychotic need to make jokes that he needn't. Employing Paul McGann is an impotent bid for the cult market. The ideas are expended by a third of the way through - a possible digression over the vicar's daughter is wasted and a belated attempt to bring it back from the dead half-hearted. With the exception of the effortfully professional lighting, design and under-the-circumstances photography this is a complete waste of everybody's time and money. 1/10
Film-as-cartoon rubbish. Foxx suffers the not uncommon fate of the newly Oscar-crowned, having pay-the-bills offal like this popping up just as his stock has gone through the roof. Ouch. Jessica Biel is basically eye candy, although she toughens up in the latter Behind Enemy Lines-type act. Josh Lucas is better cast than these, but his role is still translucently thin.The star attraction of the film is the combination of stunts and computer generated AI-in-a-fighter-jet. It's pretty mediocre stuff, withering in the inevitable retrospective comparison with Transformers. I knew I'd be taking the DVD back when the dubbing additions and deletions aren't even covered up in the edit. There's nothing to recommend this film. 1/10
An uncontroversial, if satisfyingly raw mobster picture. Washington does very well indeed with a character he could easily have made too sympathetic, avuncular but ruthless. Instead we get a wonderful, early outburst of petulance to signal the beginning of his demise, just as we are settling down to his hard-earned prosperity. Russell Crowe doesn't have the same calibre of acting to call on, although his screen presence is strong. The film's greatest asset though is the period detail which is fantastically thorough and large-scale - there is lots of location work. This has to be how Harlem was in the early 1970s.Ridley Scott is working in his new-ish aesthetic of bleached out filters and not-so-steadicam (a la Black Hawk Down). I also appreciate his attention to the drama of the story and its relationships - there's not unnecessary loitering over murder and the other sewerful of vices that go with the criminal underclass. Oh, and Brit Chiwetel Ejiofor is excellent in his second flick opposite Washington too... 7/10
It's a pretty dreadful movie although Stallone and Russell obviously have a great deal of fun. All sorts of bizarre situations get thrown into the mix as these self-styled 'best two cops in LA' find themselves framed and incarcerated.A notably homoerotic film, its also rather self-aware and makes light of the marginal interests that come with jail-set torture scenes and a shower sequence. Teri Hatcher offsets this guy-on-guy (non-)action as Kiki Tango, Stallone's sister who hooks up with Russell (presumably not the first time the character has agreed to take the Cash). Jack Palance is the dependable wheel-him-in bad guy Perret. Lots of things get blown up. You get the idea. 3/10
There's a moment involving a fridge which challenges the Bond-dives-off-cliff-after-biplane opening of Goldeneye for the Stretching Credulity Beyond Elastic Limit prize. Indy prising his way out of the tightest of corners is one reason most of us will have gone to see the film. The other is simply to see Harrison Ford reprising his career-defining role.It's almost impossible to discuss the film without referring to its own history, because the film itself keeps doing it. In this as in every other selling point there's the shadow of disappointment. Karen Allen returns with all of her looks but little characterisation. John Williams' score has wonderful, conspicuous novelties - but they are too few in a film in which nuance is not a priority. We were sold a film that would go easy on computer graphics - whilst this film has super sequences, they nullify such promises. The hired hands have very little they can do given the surfeit of green-screening and a director unable to do something entirely new; Shia LeBeouf gives the best of a fairly average lot. 5.5/10
A film with some super performances, from Paddy Considine as a gay-but- not-camp inspector bullied in the South London nick into which he's parachuted, to Aidan Gillen's typically ballsy wacko killer. There's also plenty of charisma on screen - Statham, naturally, but also the underwritten Zawe Ashton. Elliott Nester's film hops about on the scalding coals of a not-quite-there script. I could understand the broad strokes but the storytelling, especially of the secondary plotting, is choppy to the point of sporadic.It's a shame because there's some unusual characterisation going on. South London is also a strong player in this respect, with proper location shooting really adding to the density of the visual narrative. Some big hitters in minor parts (Rylance, naturally - though I have to confess I have never been a fan of David Morrissey and this changes nothing) help to make the film authentic. In the end it becomes a vehicle for suburban shock and gore. 5/10
Some fine acting and some interesting quirks. I was surprised though that Anderson fails to really tell the story well. There's a certain amount of contrived obfuscation, an attempt to create tension and mystery. I got the feeling that the big secrets, once revealed, were Anderson playing lip-service to the expectations he'd set up as if he wasn't really interested himself in the first place. (Hmm, I wonder if a suit got bolshy in the editing suite..?)All this let-down doesn't stop Philip Baker Hall doing his thing. He looks craggy and worn but not weary. A convincing gent in a notoriously seedy environment, he seems to appear from nowhere and do nothing but retain a sense of purpose. Reilly and Paltrow both manage to curry sympathy despite playing remarkably juvenile individuals and Samuel L. Jackson's chancer is entirely the actor's creation - horrid and immensely watchable. The performances and some Anderson trademarks (like the truck acting as a sort of symbolic screen-wipe at the very beginning) are the reasons to give this a try. 5/10
A really very good film perilously overburdened with premium acting talent. In the Altman fashion the story - a standard whodunnit - becomes the armature for a whirl of vignettes. It is a marvel that one can follow the tapestry of subplots at all (and a great testament to the sound engineers, who coherently capture and mix much of the simultaneous dialogue). The tidal rush of ensemble and intimate action means that the big twist is one of a number of revelations (this is as much a wothappened as a whodunnit) and Altman thoughtfully provides a powerful melodramatic catharsis in its place.I liked the script and its committal to film immensely; so understated, so sharp and full of character. As for the characters themselves, this film seethes with the cream operating at their finest. It's so wonderful to watch. I think that Kelly McDonald, Emily Watson and Clive Owen may be the most sympathetic but only as the least anachronistic symbols as their contribution is only from the same top drawer as all the others.Two small gripes. Stephen Fry is a notable exception to the otherwise unimpeachable cast. The excuse may be that he was a late replacement for Kenneth Branagh, but with a great traditon of The Inspector's Arrival in such a film (Dial M For Murder, An Inspector Calls, any Poirot), this role is too important to have compromised on. Also, the film doesn't tell me anything much. But actually, I don't care about this, and after having been a party to Olympian acting for 2 hours, you won't either. 8/10
Unlike the (on the face of it) obvious comparitor Kramer vs Kramer, the film is more about the children caught in the tug-o-love of a divorce. Both Jesse Eisenberg and Owen Kline are brilliant, well-coached in an understatedness that makes emotive outbursts all the more shocking. Laura Linney and Jeff Daniels are also very good, if perhaps a little strangely cast: Daniels is rather serious (Bill Murray was the first choice for Bernard). However Anna Paquin and Halley Feiffer as two girls that embody the terror and titillation of puberty are quite brilliant.Whilst the quiet manner of the film's execution focuses the ear on the excellent script, I do feel that the melodrama that might help the humour gets a little stifled. Plus, for all it's sense of forward motion there is no conclusion - only drifting cadence. But I liked it. 6/10
A consistent but drifting film. It's as if the director has his mind one thing but presents the audience with another. It's a highly professional version of the one film every film maker gets to do, i.e. the somewhat indulgent, possibly biopic rumination on their life in their work.Broken Embraces is about the film-making process: its temptations, sacrifices, politics, frustrations, contradictions and rewards. Almodovar is discreet about his own love of the medium, barring one painful trawl through his own (by extension) DVD collection. The problem is that he can't quite settle on which plot thread to make the principal story. Essentially it's a flashback tale in the life of the director- scriptwriter Mateo, played well if imperfectly by Lluís Homar. The most significant drama is his love affair with his leading lady - Cruz as muse, here in art, as in Almodovar's life. She is good, if predictable. So it goes on.There are plot dead ends, dramatic peaks which have little precedent and go nowhere... strangely it hangs together, although I was a little bored. 4/10
A (more or less) pleasant feelgood movie. It's not only a clever conceit for a comedy, it's also a dangerous one though. Will the audience be able to differentiate between cosmetic and soulful beauty, just as Hal can in his enlightened state? Or will the Farrelly brothers over-compensate by making 'unattractive' or afflicted characters unequivocally and therefore crassly tortured and gruesome?If anything, the team goes for the latter. However, the medically afflicted are sympathetic characters and for the others, prosthetics are used - and then with a good sense of economy. The film is proportionately about its second act, which is a conventional love story shot from from Black's perspective. The bookending acts aren't interested in looking at the 'natural' state of the obese, etc.I was surprised at Black who is very subdued. Jason Alexander is more successful, reprising the bad-best-friend he gave in Pretty Woman, but this time with a redeeming happy end of his own (in both senses. Oh, you'll have to watch the film). Above all I enjoyed watching Gwyneth Paltrow, who, for the bulk of the movie has to do little more than be a beautiful love interest. Easy 5/10
It was instructive watching this film on the back of having seen Clint Eastwood's broody study of Charlie Parker (Bird, 1988). This film has a similar structure, including a smattering of ever more revealing flashbacks, often rendered through the protagonist's perspective as magic realism. Taylor Hackford has decided to make a film with more colour, pace and deference to its subject that Eastwood and I think that it benefits from that. It's a romp and I thoroughly enjoyed it.Key of course is the role of Ray Charles himself. Jamie Foxx is quite amazing, given that he has to recreate not just the musical technique but also the stage performance that goes with that - and the blindness and awkward shuffling walk to boot. Most impressive is that he maintains a narrow palette of expression in his face. Set in a smile, Foxx still manages a full range of conflict, joy, self-pity and stoicism. It's extraordinary.There's a large quality cast beside him - it tells you all you need to know that Richard Schiff is simply another member of the ensemble - and like Foxx they all seem fluent in the instruments they're purported to play. It's a little glossy but, as I say, I think that lends itself to the form rather than diverting from some truth. 7/10
John Travolta reprising the not-so-wholesome leads he gave us in Broken Arrow and Face/Off; Halle Berry exposing her thoroughly wholesome self; and Hugh Jackman in a tailored role as the imperfect hero. This is enough and frankly this photogenic talent could be presenting a shopping channel for all I care.Still, director Dominic Sena has to string it all together and despite a basically risible plot he does that with a certain panache. There are cool cars, guns and geeks, speed, romance and quotable one-liners... there's even some glossy fellatio thrown in under the nose of a sneering Vinnie Jones. Yup, him as well. It's all in the price of a ticket. 5/10
Reese Witherspoon had broken through to the clear waters of superstardom with Legally Blonde etc. She just needed a grand yacht of a film to conquer it's ocean. Sweet Home Alabama is that film. A deep south Cinderella in reverse, it's no Erin Brokovich but it's a bubbly, candy-covered comedy that'll do just fine.Witherspoon is more than cute as a button. She's a classic screen leader, unique but absorbing and uncomplicated. The film has the guts to challenge her to produce something worth watching, with its spirited ensemble, well-filled cameos and pastiche characters and a stubbly straight guy in Josh Lucas.Get a DVD copy for those rainy evenings in. 4/10
A thoroughly enjoyable Britflick, albeit a flick coughing up the backwash of Britpop. It has pretty convincing footballing from the principal girls, Parminder Nagra and Keira Knightley... and being a romantic comedy as much as anything else, it does help that they're easy on the eye as well. There's a solid support cast too with Anupam Kher (as Nagra's father) particularly on the money.It's full of the most obvious cliché's and a telegraphed narrative. But, as in the best Britflicks, this is not only dispatched competently but with wit, sensitivity and surfing its manifold irony. So, surfing the backwash of Britpop then. 5/10
In the first couple of minutes of The Imposter, we hear a recorded call with captions placing the call in time; then the film is rewound and we hear it again. The Imposter is a fairly straightforward tale of identity theft but a tale that needs this constant revision. Everything one hears in its turn requires closer scrutiny. Bart Layton's triumph is to follow each thread of the story through, only increasing the layers of information when the tale demands it.There's more to the composition than this of course. Layton's interviews are impeccably collated so that one has the feeling that at all times the individual telling their story is being honest, even when they might look a bit silly. It's also a great achievement to end with a greater mystery than those that tumble forward as the story rolls on.Frederic Bourdin is the great draw of the show, as candid as Joe Simpson in Touching The Void. The editing helps make the point where others would have resorted to interpolated exposition. There's also a nice, unobtrusive soundtrack by Anne Nikitin which follows almost exactly the emotional temperature of the film. 8/10
A beautifully made, bittersweet film. Whether you view it as an existential rescue opera (like Papillion) or just a flick (like Escape from Alcatraz) it's still satisfying.Tim Robbins' unjustly incarcerated accountant is a measured performance, always both hang-dog but alert. Morgan Freeman's performance offsets this masterfully; liberated by resignation, he's a wary but more dramatic character. And of course, his voice-over is almost like a soundtrack.The supporting cast do a steady job but the laurels have to go to Frank Darabont in bringing Stephen King's story to the screen. The tale is thoroughly told - the twists are well-concealed and highly dramatic. I especially like the detail, right down to the selection of sull'aria from Mozart's Marriage of Figaro - the duet is a warm-hearted hatching of a plot that will lead to that opera's resolution in redemption and reconciliation, just like the film. 9/10
An outstanding documentary-style masterpiece. I feel rather presumptuous trying to analyse what's going on. It looks like press footage most of the time (the extras were locals). There's wonderful hand-held photography from all sorts of engaging angles just like the Tangier chase sequence in Paul Greengrass' Bourne Ultimatum. Gillo Pontecorvo isn't beyond the tension-ratcheting of Hitchcock to make the most of a terrorist atrocity. The acting is real - urgent, even. It's very exciting.The film is a great example of the power of economy. For example, Pontecorvo wrote the soundtrack as well. It's brilliant, very à la mode ensuring that this is seen not just as another throwback colonialist struggle. That said, one can argue that there is a deliberate reworking of Renoir's Grande Illusion with its mutually respectful martial leaders talking sorrow and resolve against the grain. A modern film about an old theme.A concise and elegant masterpiece. 9/10
Candy-sweet prom drama. Everyone's terrified of growing up and sex is the conducting rod around which plot threads and corporeal gags spark and squelch. Cleverly, with such a coarse general premise the film blooms; the strange exchange of revealed insecurity and galvanised masculinity is sincerely achieved. (Also, with it's postmodern appropriation of ideas from a 30-year history of rite-of-passage flicks, it also manages to pave the way for the parody-anthologies of the Noughties).So plaudits all-round to a new late 90s brat-pack. The film's not quite as delicate or touching as, say, Richard Linklater's Dazed and Confused, but you don't feel like you've simply been watching a 90-min riff on wanking. 6/10
In a compendium of films that use plot twists they may have to be an ancillary category for the surprise of the subverted stereotype. Woody Allen lives this oxymoron, playing out the lover of beautiful women in his films. He also incorporates it elsewhere and in none so clearly as this flick in which the wiseguy turns out to be a more capable stage writer than the troubled artist he's meant to strong-arm.Chazz Palminteri in fact went on to make one of the great twist-films in The Usual Suspects. Here he clearly knows how to pace the emergence of his literate thug Cheech - surely not only the name but also the role is in homage to the scene with the wiseguys who press Allen for his autograph early on in Annie Hall. Cusack walks the director's biographical role with steam coming out of his ears, Jennifer Tilly is the ditzy moll and Diane Wiest does her whining but not unsympathetic shtick familiar from Hannah and Her Sisters etc. Good fun. 6/10
I thought I was going to love it and liked it. It's not always the way with Wes Anderson - I though his very particular brand of humour really hit the mark with The Life Aquatic. The quirks and subversions of his vision are a gift for an actor, which is, no doubt, why this film is populated with so many good ones.Clearly Anderson has in mind that this is a rather farcical film and in fact might as well be a modern version of The Addams Family. Anglica Huston is not cast entirely with this in mind though, bringing a warmer haughteur to her part as Royal's wife. Royal Tenenbaum was always going to be the key role, the warped Lear, and Hackman is a good choice on paper although I felt he struggled a bit. Ben Stiller, Luke Wilson and Gwyneth Paltrow as the grown, prodigious but dysfunctional siblings are a riot, Stiller a particular delight in conjunction with his boys Ari and Uzi. It is a comedy, after all. It's not entirely satisfying but there's are any number of unexpected laugh-out-loud corners and this will be the appeal for many. 5/10
This is a really wonderful film: ripe, funny, shocking and touching. On the face of it it seems a little try-hard, like a self-conscious stab at the cult market. In fact the film is a thoughtful, cultured, Medieval-modern meditation on personal suffering, represented at both ends by the surreal but visionary art of Hieronymous Bosch.The greatest thing about In Bruges is Martin McDonagh's script. There hadn't been such a firestorm of re-quotable, taste's-edge hilarity since Pulp Fiction 15 years prior to it. The raucous honesty of Colin Farrell's socially untutored Ray gets repeated across the cast. This is the vernacular, the talk of men who deal in the messy absolutism of murder. Like David Chase's Sopranos the drama is in the curious disjunct between the amplified language & action of violence and the social disingenuity of its repression. Not only the words though - visually McDonagh squeezes so much out of his project (the reveal of Peter Dinklage in schoolboy costume, the final, inevitable Bosch-manifest denouement) that when the end comes it just drops us off the edge of the cliff (or bell-tower, maybe), stone cold. Powerful stuff.The cast are uniformly outstanding. I imagine that this has a lot to do with a script this good - it's just a shot in the arm of a good actor. The soundtrack's carefully chosen too, right down to the hopelessness of Schubert's Der Leiermann predicting some lonely demise in the snow, and all bound together with a nicely orchestrated score by Carter Burwell.This is a second IMDb review of this film from this contributor, with apologies for an equivocal first. It's clearly a classic. 9/10
A generic but striking Yakuza noir. I hadn't imagined Ridley Scott would fare well in this area but of course I just hadn't thought outside the box of it's obvious predecessor, Blade Runner. Michael Douglas and Andy Garcia are good cop/bad cop partners Nick and Charlie from the Big Apple. When one of their charges goes missing in Tokyo they have to go underground to drag him back out.The film brims with great and grimy period detail: a super scene in a karaoke bar and a stealthy, heartbreaking sequence on bikes in a deserted shopping mall. Kate Capshaw, who seems to have simply slipped back into her role from the opening of The Temple Of Doom softens the neon-electric tesosterone. Michael Douglas plays out the familiar Martin Riggs/John MacLean self-destructive-vigilante-cop role in vogue in the late 1980s and has good support from Ken Takakura as the statutory Japanese point man Matsumoto. 6/10
It's difficult to conceive that this is Mark Romanek's second feature film, so complete and impressive is its construction. He tells the story of a group of friends whose friendship and love is tested against their fate with patience, world-class photography and the (award-)year's best acting.Leading from the front is Carey Mulligan's Cathy H, the protagonist of the film by dint of narrating an occasional voice-over. The acting from her and Andrew Garfield is nothing short of sensational, a miracle of technique over experience (no 20-something has the world-weariness to be able to internalise and channel the existential revelations and Weltschmerz that these two carry without formidable technique). They are matched by the beautiful but cool Charlotte Rampling who, in one of the most powerful scenes I've ever seen in a cinema, delivers a foul complex of ontological truth. Carey Mulligan's pre-pubescent double Isobel Meikle-Small is also first class.There are odd weaknesses in the cast - Keira Knightley (inevitably) and Sally Hawkins, I'm sorry to say - and there is also a strange faultline in the story too. The temperament of the film cannot conceal weaknesses in the science fiction, the impossibility of the young protagonist's equable resignation to their fate. However, I believe that this is a necessary part of the film's make-up and that the lack of credibility is not that of the characters but ours. It is part of the royal predicate, if you like, of the film that allows Tommy (and Cathy) to be so naive and yet so credible. This in turn sets up one of the three arguments of the film, which it scrutinises so well.These are: the ethics of synthesising life; the wonder of genuine love; the redeeming power of art. The ethics of the situation are mapped out by Miss Lucy and the functionary characters (who, performing services, treat the protagonists as a pitiable extension of their job) but are best investigated as a side effect of the relationships between the characters. Romanek's great technical achievement is to have a couple fall in love without having either say as much to each other or us. As for the healing work of art, well the aforementioned scene of brilliance goes some way to discussing that, although it remains opaque. Rather it throws our attention onto the the very film in which it is set. It suggests that the film itself that can help us to confront and process the seemingly intractable issues within it. Bizarrely, it can. 8/10
A dreadful comedy. Unfunny from beginning to the 50th-or-so minute when I couldn't take any more. Martin mangles the faux-French accent terribly, curdling into Elmer Fudd whilst perpetually falling short of the risqué misnomers of Allo, Allo. Innuendo is poorly sold as are many of the slapstick gags (the majority are ill-executed as they rely on post-production). The thin story is padded out with tiresome comic digressions and insertions. The quintessence of this is a scene in which Martin's Clouseau prepares for a Stateside visit with a vocal coach and a single line of desperately repeated script - 'I would like to buy a hamburger' - which simply flatlines.References to other films seem to tee themselves up and then evaporate. A rough Bond reference works - a Planes, Trains and Automobiles moment is ignored and various Austin Powers allusions waste away with th poorly executed innuendo. Beyoncé consequently has no acting to do, restricting herself to laughing and smiling a lot. Her co-stars Jean Reno and Kevin Kline seem paralysed by the awfulness of the contract under which they labour. A total waste of everybody's time, especially mine. 1/10
This is one of the movie-going experiences where one has to be very specific about what bits that are fun and the bits that are tawdry. I gasped at short expanses of this new Disney-Pixar animation and was bewildered and bored for rather longer stretches.The problem is twofold. Firstly, the story is entirely rehashed, in terms of its components. I could feel my buttons getting pressed - the cute kid, the cute kid's foibles, the stuttering voice-over manner; the early montage of the old man and his wife growing up together. For all that this was perfectly nicely done I noticed my own sense of recoil at the unerring manner in which each of my heartstrings got plucked, almost rhythmically. The whole film works like this within the same arc of comedy rescue drama, exactly like all other Pixars.Secondly and exacerbating the problem is the pure fantasy of the film. It relies on couching the story in the intimate normality of life - at one stage, the little boy (Russell) actually says "Sometimes, it's the boring stuff I remember the most". Yet it regularly blows this apart with outrageous disbelief-suspension-demanding conceits, starting with launching and flying a house with helium balloons and moving on to talking dogs and more. Animation works because it can throw surprises into the day-to-day or realise wild fantasies in detail. However, the story cannot bear both extremes in the same span.Far and away the most interesting character on screen is that of the explorer Charles Muntz. That's because he takes a decision that a real explorer would take - hard-come-by, stubborn and courageous - and realises it within the bounds of possibility. He also appears later to present a further side to his character. I find this intriguing and appealing, the adventuring of the film's trajectory being the classic allegory for psychological investigation. Disney-Pixar have effectively shut this possibility out with this latest creation by presenting characters composed from all their previous ones, rather than grown organically within this drama. A serious let-down. 4/10
First the good stuff, and there's plenty of it. Hanks is not a back-to-back Oscar winner for nothing. His performance is the compassion-uppermost hardnut that we have already seen in Saving Private Ryan. But of the two I'd commend DiCaprio's performance more highly. His Frank Abagnale is stylish, charming but away with the fairies. It's quite bipolar.There's also a peach of a score from John Williams and (collaboratively) one of the finest title credit sequences ever, a 60s retro animation designed by Olivier Kuntzel and Florence Deygas for Nexus Productions (thank you Senses of Cinema for that information).Alas the subsequent film is something of an anticlimax. The pursuit comedy implied by the opening sequence never really has the zip that Spielberg might have wanted - he gets too bogged down with flashbacks and Freudian tangents. At at least half an hour too long the film is cumbersome. 5/10
An engaging but disappointing film. There's all the tension and action one would expect from a Willis-fronted pursuit thriller. Donner catches New York very well. The only landmark is an early background view of the Brooklym Bridge: from there on Donner goes for claustraphobically framed shots of back streets and corners. I imagine this is a faithful and affectionate capturing of New York.Willis acts well despite a badly assembled prosthetic tummy. Mos Def is OK. Alas, both suffer from the contemporary malaise of the thriller genre, requiring actors to obscure their lines in delivery. Despite Willis/Def's best efforts though enough of the script remains audible for one to tell that it's a bit of a patchwork - indeed the ending itself is a late alternative.There is one bonus in the late appearance of Jenna Stern as Willis' sister. She's an almost obtrusively beautiful woman who also manages to act convincingly and with impact in her 3-scene role. This is the sort of stand-out that made the career of Julianna Moore (in The Fugitive). I'll look forward to more of her. 5/10
This film's chief asset - OK, apart from the always brilliant Greg Kinnear - is the opportunity to watch Pierce Brosnan playing against every conceivable type accumulated over a rich career. I was a little disappointed. He can render the coarse lines but doesn't really live them; he's not nearly as much of a brute as he is in The Tailor of Panama.Add in the halting direction of Richard Shepard and I feel that not only are the assets of the principal cast wasted but also that the first hour drags terribly. It's a fairly straightforward black comedy. Consequently the characters aren't terribly complicated and get overstated - the plot twists are concealed sequences and lies, not hidden depths. Engaging, but offering a poor return. 4/10
Essentially a beautifully shot film with well-spoken text. It is unforgivable though that the big twist of the story should be rendered by director, editor, music and cast alike without note. The Merchant of Venice has what amounts to Shakespeare's most breathtaking, clay-feet destroying dramatic coups and if you're not expecting it you'd miss it. Amazing.That aside I really got on with this film. The Venice caught in Michael Radford's camera is freezing but vibrant and opulent, the very opposite of the sunkist, peeling monument to it's halcyon past we're used to from tourist programmes (or indeed Don't Look Now). With the exception of Kris Marshall and his two-gear acting, the cast are also excellent. Pacino really knows how to speak the text. It's an idiosyncratic performance with some familiar tropes occasionally creeping in but always in service of the role. Irons is more than a match for him - after all, this is The Merchant not The Usurer of Venice. Joe Fiennes is also good: the A-list leading young man of choice he's also subtly effeminate here which not only plays to the overt homoeroticism of Iron's Antonio but also the strength of his love-quarry, Portia (played exquisitely by Lynn Collins).I cannot watch this film or, indeed, any production of this play without the feeling that Shakespeare's intentions are irredeemably racist, despite the strength of his drama. This comment concerns the effectiveness of that drama and its adaptation in this production: its explicitly Semitic-Christian themes are not part of my assessment. 7/10
It's predecessor was a celebrated hit but Monsters University (a prequel) deserves none of the 'meh' doled out by critics, either in comparison or on its own terms. It's a frat-boy coming of age story with all the inventiveness of the first film intact and thriving. There's a large and well-characterised voice cast for the ensemble with Helen Mirren the choice name popping up as a scaly dean of studies.As ever with these films, it's the pace of wit which is so attractive and arresting on screen and the slapstick is as violent as it can be given the raucous nature of the invented subjects. If anything I'd like to have seen the topsy-turvy 'toxicity of children' predicate of the first film more thoroughly investigated here. But no matter, it's great fun. 7/10
The best thing that Damon and Greengrass have done yet. Green Zone is an amazing film, an exemplar of lucid indignation carefully plotted out over its entire running time. It's exciting from the very start to the very end.The film does contain some of the ugliest pictures you could possibly get away with in a cinema, it has to be said. The final chase sequence through night-time Baghdad is a rather impressive inasmuch as the director seems to have set his technical crew an outwardly impossible task. Elsewhere there's a lovely selection of shots (+ editing), including bizarre but credible inventions from the inside of the eponymous Green Zone, where the invading forces and their entourage relax in the woefully complacent spirit of 'Mission Accomplished'. Matt Damon is excellent, marginally less brow-beaten than Bourne. Greg Kinnear is well-cast as the slippery Washington mandarin Poundstone (close to Treadstone from Bourne, I thought) and Brendan Gleeson equally on the money as a reality-worn version of the same. Khalid Abdalla (Freddy) is excellent, a tremendously complex character managing to avoid hysteria. Greengrass is the star though, producing a consistent, clearly argued condemnation of the folly of the invasion. Properly, the outrage is in the drama, not imposed from outside the film. 8/10
The Crossing Guard excepted, this film marked a serious return to form for Jack Nicholson. The most telling acting happens from the opening as Nicholson's Sheriff Black undertakes a leaving party and one final murder investigation with a the spectre of the some personal privation gnawing at him. It's not distraction but need. When he makes the eponymous promise to find a child's murder we begin to feels this chemical reaction, a warping of reality as he slips into an unwanted retirement unsatisfied and unresolved.Robin Wright Penn is magnificent support in this fateful drama, a redeeming angel who heralds the tragedy. The rest of the ensemble (including Del Toro's wacky cameo) are also fine. Sean Penn directs with candour and a cold, sad heart. 6/10
This is a really fine film, by turns cultured, frightening and erotic. It's a thriller woven from the tension in the relationship between the dried up author Sarah and the nymphomaniacal publisher's daughter Julie with whom she is forced to share a villa in the Sud.Ozon has made it so much more though. It is also an erotic drama, Sarah forced to confront herself in the cast-off wake of Julie's promiscuity. The women's tacit sexual comparisons are also played out in a series of Oedipal symbols and exchanges Most striking is a gash of a red lilo that sits menacingly and yet enticingly by the pool throughout; the men that Julie brings back to the house are also pawn-like, less sexual partners than bargaining chips between the two women.Further ghostly references are thrown into the mix with the circumstances not dissimilar to Henry James' The Turn of The Screw and a shocking allusion to Nick Roeg's Don't Look Now as the drama mounts. As much as the drama is maintained in beautifully constructed shots and careful control of the tension and pacing this film's success must be the overwhelming performance of Rampling as Sarah. It's difficult to condense one's thoughts on the studiousness, allure and sacrifice that make up a contribution as convincing as this. Sagnier's brattish but sharp Julie is no less committed and role-immersed. Mesmerising film-making 8.5/10
There's a lot to recommend this film. Principally there is the very fine (another very fine) performance from Jude Law. His versatile and grown-up performance glues the ensemble and the story strands together. The support is top notch: Juliette Binoche is the pick of the rest, thrown into chaos by her thieving son and Law's flaky contemporary liberal; around her are a convincing neurotic (Penn), compassionate urban realists (Farmiga and Winstone) and Martin Freeman playing an almost cameo-like doppelgänger to Law. And I don't know where they found Rafi Gavron who is brilliant as a first timer amongst such company.The film has a couple of issues - it's almost pathologically organised with one-too-many similar themes investigated and resolved over its arc. The ending ties everything up too neatly.Despite this the film manages to break the bonds of domestic or TV drama that so easily dog other British productions. London is definitely a character though. There are carefully chosen landmarks just off the tourist radar; even the estate where the immigrant family live is not a council dive but a flawed marvel of late 1960s architecture (The Rowley Way Estate in Camden).A super film that, from its performances to its look, dispenses with preconception to examine the way modern individuals deal with one another in isolation. 8/10
I liked this more the second time around - largely as my expectations were considerably lower than before. That's not to say it's a particularly good film. It's certainly not a brief one.The acting is pretty nasty all around, aimless, aspirant-cool posturing that strikes me as the result of directorial suggestion. This is a shame because the opening sequence (the older cousin of the startling opening to Danny Boyle's 28 Days Later) and the rest of Fall New York doesn't need directorial diktat to be cool.Penélope Cruz is good though, fresh, funny and deeply attractive, just as she should be. Jason Lee is a nice foil for the reality that gets subverted. I didn't like any other performances, especially not the miscast and oddly played British contributions (Spall as the lawyer, Swinton as the director of a cryogenics company).A film strong on sentiment and weak in execution. 4/10
Horror - or perhaps there should be another sub-genre, the shocker-thriller - isn't my principal bag but this is sufficiently by the numbers to neither bore nor give me nightmares. It's a good piece of work from Hollywood safe hands Robert Zemeckis with robust but coiled storytelling and some good ideas that work the surprises, shocks and twists into the visual mettle of the film.Both Harrison Ford and Michelle Pfeiffer are cast as much for their matinée appeal as their acting ability, which, to be honest, is only firing at about 4/5ths of its potential. It's a 4/5ths kinda film though, an entertainment not designed to nourish the soul. A straightforward flick but nonetheless an interesting chapter in Ford's career. 5/10
I'm not entirely sure what to make of The King Of Comedy on a first viewing. However, I recognise that I'm in a much better position to appreciate or even evaluate it today than twenty years ago. It's a more complex cousin of Taxi Driver, with Rupert Pupkin a more self-deluding version of the naive, confused Travis Bickle. The target of his discomfort is not the world of vice but of normality - or rather its amplified version on the television. Bickle's clumsiness in taking a girl to a porn movie on a date becomes a series of flat-out fantasies involving the barmaid Rita. It gets to a point where one struggles to work out whether or not each scene involving Rita is for real or another wish-fulfilment solipsism.The film culminates in an extraordinary set piece comic monologue. I found myself thinking of the dance 'skit' sequence from Napoleon Dynamite in which that protagonist is redeemed not only in the eyes of the diegetic audience but also for those of us watching the cinema screen. Well, catharsis of a sort is achieved but its a far more complex event, in which the normality that Pupkin craves is both superficially granted and simultaneously, terminally denied. His actions have precluded his assimilation to society.Or so it seems on the face of it. But this is where the film twists its knife. It ends with a coda that seems banal by the standards of early 20th century reality television, so accustomed are we to people exploiting opportunity rather than fulfilling it. I found the film an odd watch, intermittently uncomfortable but almost always rather funny. Pupkin is deeply wounded but he's not the powder keg that is Bickle. Pupkin's rage has too labyrinthine a course to the surface and so is permanently rendered as hysteria - intensity and farcical clumsiness. It's a terrific study and a super performance from de Niro (and nicely offset by the echt comic axis of Sandra Bernhard and Jerry Lewis). 7/10
6/10 isn't a five star endorsement by any means but that's because I find gross-out difficult to stomach. However one has to recognise that this mucky but merry film is a fresh and assured picture in a long tradition of sick shtick comedies and one which cranks the bar up quite a way.Ben Stiller's career was galvanised and if one iota of the hurt or embarrassment visited upon his character came to pass in the making of it he suffered for his art! Cameron Diaz is cast as well as can be to date as the ditzy supporting beauty Mary, her antennae subtly tuned to the humour sewer flowing around her. Matt Dillon's Pat makes up the love triangle with all the finesse and cadly-contrivance that Stiller's Ted mercifully lacks. 6/10
A perfectly pitched, nicely cast, warm and very funny sci-fi romp. It's not specifically about Star Trek although that's clearly the intention and though it laughs at the trappings of the TV show's great and enduring appeal, it does it with affection.Tim Allen's Kirk-a-like Nesmith loves the shows conventions, being the bigshot that he is. His co-stars aren't quite as enamoured, having to dress in dated costumes and troll out the weary, dated and mindlessly silly one-liners. Alan Rickman's Alexander Dane is the ultimate case-in-point, a highly distilled misanthrope made to dress in prosthetics. Their perspective is shaken and challenged when real aliens come and enlist their help to resolve an actual intergalactic incident: the adventure reminds the cast why they took the job and why their characters connect with so many (human fans).Naturally there are any number of solipsistic gags which I, as a non-Trekkie didn't get but it's a function of the film that this doesn't matter. There's clearly a lot of fun being had and not simply for the benefit of Dean Parisot's cameras. 6/10
Top film. A mucky slice of post-rave Britpoptannia, seen through the psychedelically altered eyes of a quartet of Glaswegian dopes. As I've noted before Danny Boyle is a Kubrick fan and recreates framing, lighting and stylised shots into his films. This is probably the definitive example of this hagiography-in-action; tellingly, the film is also narrative by the chief protagonist, Renton, played in a breakout performance by Ewan McGregor.McGregor's got a top cast about him. Robert Carlyle secured a Bond villain off the back of his toxic misanthrope Begbie, Ewen Bremner does an ecstasy-altered version of the excellent raving boyfriend in Mike Leigh's Naked and Johnny Lee Miller is a warped, Addams-family-Zen dealer. Arguably the biggest name today though is the surprise and hugely successful casting of virtual novelty Kelly McDonald. Wonderful actress. Crazy, iconic film. 8/10
A beautifully shot, well-acted and steadily paced film. An almost perfectly symmetric two-act film, the first is an exhilarating, runaway train of American dream-chasing; the second an altogether different sort of struggle following a violent, if perhaps inevitable twist. Indeed inevitability is the watchword of the project - everyone is constantly losing the battle between academic morality and playing the hand they're dealt.Hilary Swank deservedly won another Oscar for her tunnel-visioned boxer. Her great achievement is in giving a sympathetic performance deploying only the slightest ghost of self-pity and desperation. Instead, the dead-end life she wants to escape emerges in her determination and the short scenes with her imagination-less family (the thankless role of her mother well-taken by Margo Martindale).The film is arguably about Eastwood's grizzled trainer Frankie Dunn though. By way of the metaphor for the film in toto, Eastwood is often virtually inaudible and acts with a face set in a default Weltschmerz position but still wins through. Morgan Freeman is impeccable support (and the greatest voice-over narrator in movie history?!). Even Eastwood's original, unobtrusive score fits the bill perfectly. 7/10
A tough work of storytelling. The Seventh Seal tells of a visionary knight's existential struggle as he journeys through plagued Denmark. Famously, the knight bargains to extend his life for the length of a game of chess with Death himself; the game lasts throughout the journey. The knight's encounters are at once solipsistic and allegorical but also very real and human, making for a satisfying essay on the nature of faith, compassion, love, life and death.Phew. Luckily Bergman is nothing if not big-hearted and the film has plenty of good humour to it. Principal amongst them is the fool-composite of Jof (Nils Poppe); unlike a Shakespearen fool, his clowning has little meaning and only we are party to his visions. His is the unifying aspect of the film.Beside him is a solid cast headed by a fine double-act. Max von Sydow is the serene but anguished knight; his urbane, manly squire Jöns (Gunnar Björnstrand) is a tough counterpart. Such close, subtly complimentary roles are the hall mark of the film whose script and set-pieces never do what you might expect. Punctuating the journey is the ubiquitous Death. Played with remarkable merriment by Bengt Ekerot, he is difficult to measure until his hideous final line.In addition to the vision of the director there is fine music and some impressive photography. If I have one criticism it is that Bergman sometimes doesn't do enough, relying on the cast to create the cinematic melodrama. But the story is well-told. 7/10
Wall-to-wall one-liners, action, urban cool and graphite dry black humour. If you're looking for all of this gather at this New Line Cinema teat (sorry, there's a running wet-nursing issue). Even if you're not particularly, Paul Giamati is funny and Bellucci sexy, although Clive Owen fails, as he does in Sin City to be cool. He's not Hollywood enough.But this is really a slight film, composed of snuff-tropes and all of it has a rancorous pong from being carried out in risible proximity to a newborn child. The black humour of that idea has an exceptionally short half-life and becomes distasteful even before the third handful of popcorn. I gave up when the hours-old infant gets a lesson in automatic firearms. 3/10
It's not quite the pole to pole masterpiece that is Fargo. It is however very funny. It's madly - and continually - inventive and cranky but it's not all an excuse for in-jokes or incoherent cameos. Everything works within the story. Just.Jeff Bridges... my goodness me, what a great actor. From The Contender to Fearless he may not always be Oscar-linked (although he's done that too with Seabiscuit) but he's got it all. It would be so easy to play the assumed Lebowski as a dribbling stoner, but that's not the Coens' intention and he's equal to their vision.In support is an equally well-calibrated John Goodman and a host of Coen regulars joined fearlessly by a slew of romping A-listers like Julianne Moore and and Philip Seymour Hoffman. Chuck in some great trip-out sequences, a super soundtrack and an endless supply of White Russians and 8/10.
A good, solid thriller with some quite wonderful acting. It doesn't quite press all the available buttons though. I suspect this is down to it's Indie-sensibility. Lumet has obviously given his fine (male) cast plenty of room in which to do the piece justice. He just fails to fill in the gaps and tighten it all up.As for that cast, Ethan Hawke is a real chameleon - compare this wuss with the principled rookie of Training Day or the hard nut of the Precinct 13 remake. Albert Finney's fine, if a bit doddery; Philip Seymour Hoffman is the real martyr to the cause, selflessly putting both body and soul in the lens' way throughout. I also thought highly of Michael Shannon's grievous brother-in-law.We didn't need the subtitles helping with the flashbacks, not in the post-Pulp Fiction/Momento 21st century. It's also a mite unrelentingly downbeat - the comedy to offset the tension is invariably ignored. 6/10
What makes a good twist? Really, if there were a formula then it could become a genre of its own. Instead we make do with thriller, whodunnit, horror, etc. In fact, therein lies the answer - a good twist is one where it's not that you can't work out what the twist is going to be but rather that you weren't expecting a twist at all.Now, I wasn't expecting there to be a twist (as opposed to a revelation) in this movie. Maybe I was naive and you might see it coming. I suspect that I had got so fed up with the consistent trope of the characters being evasive, neurotic and, frankly, rather irritating that I had got bored, in which case the twist, such as I thought it was, wasn't one at all. Perhaps it was a corner in the drama, elevated to coup de cinema in the same way that a shutting door becomes thunder to the dozing.There you go. It's a rather pure film for that reason/those reasons, like a sophisticated student's project. 4/10
A super way to spend an evening in the cinema. The film is tightly made in the same manner as Edgar Wright's Hot Fuzz & Shaun Of The Dead; brisk, witty and with a sharp eye not only for referencing other films but also other filming techniques. Simon Pegg and Nick Frost are on good form. Jason Bateman is a nice, straight-faced addition and Kirsten Wiig actually takes over the funny once she is introduced. The motion-capture of Seth Rogen for Paul is high quality and Rogen himself is very entertaining.The creationist issue is a little over-played (although not to the same extent as in Ricky Gervais' The Invention Of Lying). More effective are the little moments that play on the wonder of supernatural intervention; the episode with the sparrow, for example.A film-lovers flick but nothing like as nerdy as the critics might have suggested - nor as nerdy as the characters themselves. 6/10
Imagine the genes of Harry Potter (including the dedicated British production) and Brosnan-period Bond spliced for the teen market and you have it. This film is a welcome romp from the navel-gazing of Craig-Bond (that's navel-gazing on the part of the successive production teams, trying with mixed success to updtae the franchise). It's light but slick fun and frothy. It has no unnecessary sexual encounters too - a very interesting point for the Broccolis to take note of, perhaps.I found the London = Chelsea and Routemasters thing tiring but I enjoyed the cast. Stephen Fry is a self-casting Q and I liked the mix-up of Sophie Okonedo as the straight 'guy' to Bill Nighy's Basil Exposition-a-like. Mickey Rourke finds Guignol a bit tiresome, clearly, but he's still fun. Fine 5/10
A sort of Se7en meets Wallander, The Girl (etc.) stirs a tank-girl type into a modern puzzlebox thriller. There seem to be two reasons. The first is that the girl carries some terrible backstory, dripfed to us throughout the film as a counterpoint to the horrors in the principal thriller. The second - not unrelated - is that her gothi-fetish appearance gives the genre some sort of modern twist.I quite enjoyed the film, which plays out much as one would expect and with sufficiently good acting. Aesthetically it plays out somewhere between Let The Right One In (the successful Swedish vampire flick of last year) and Tarantinoish pulp, which is fine for an evening in the cinema.Yet whenever I think about it too much I get a bit uncomfortable. The story is unavoidably fixated with the eponymous Girl - her youth, psychopathology and fetishist appearance. There's a moral seepage through the film that may be intended as a clever device ('do you see how none of us is perfect?!') but I don't feel is all that well managed, actually, suggesting that maybe the author/director actually sees the intolerable with neutral eyes.I wasn't too enamoured by the end of the film either, which has two opportunities to end before it actually does. Nonetheless a technically well-made, engrossing film. 6/10
Aaron Sorkin is probably the most recognisable personality in this film. In fact he even pops out of his own screenplay, like hormonal excess, in a short cameo. Sorkin's dialogue demands to be spoken at pace, drama chasing its own tail. It's infectious, narcotic and made me want to try harder at being better when I came out of the cinema - just like the West Wing, Sports Night and Charlie Wilson's War did.The rapid, witty, occasionally arch but all-is-forgiven-at-the-payoff script aside, other personalities emerge. Eisenberg is next for me, really working a suggestion of autism out of his familiar (Noah And The Whale) deadpan. I really believed that he-Zuckerberg is a genius - a grave word. He's helped by some top notch support from Garfield (believe everything hyperbolic that gets written about him during this next week of release) and a Timberlake impressing beyond expectation (low, but still). Max Minghella's very angry Divya Narendra was very good too.Third - but only in Holy Trinity terms - is David Fincher. When it finished I had to check my watch as I felt I'd been watching for less than an hour. It keeps pace with the text without being breathless. It's stylish and dark but clear.Above all the film is a document. All the characters still live, the roles they played in each others lives and ours still broiling & evolving as I'm typing this. That's the nature of the first decade of the 21st century - that 'back then' doesn't exist. It's here and now. Moreover, a new morality exists. The society around these young men informed it as much as their actions (literally) encoded it. In a way Fincher's achievement is left open-ended, lacking moral cadence, which is why it has the slightest of dissatisfying aftertastes. But then, maybe trying to create one is to affect disingenuous ignorance - modesty - of the story and the power with which it comes across. 8/10
What a disappointment. The film has a wonderful central concept, the idea of filming pocket versions of modern blockbusters having traded money for wit. With in-camera special effects being Gondry's trademark, we should be in for a tour-de-force. Some of the set-pieces are, indeed, very inventive. What it lacks is a story to support this concept. The conflagration of crazeee circumstances on which the film is predicated may work for Gondry's translating-surreal-onto-screen (early set pieces involving a magnetised Jack Black spark with brilliance) but they are too simplistic to carry an entire movie. The script - Gondry's - is also flaccid, a functional blueprint into which Black (primarily) et al are supposed to pour their improvisational brilliance.It's an old problem though. The absence of said script means that the actors have nothing to kick off. The dialogue is perfunctory and weak. Black is neutered. Mos Def is really good, his natural stoner-mien being in keeping with the pogoing airheadedness of the work. But the plot has nothing to bind it and there is consequently no development. The final sequence is a disingenuous Cinema Paradiso appropriation whose warm 'n fuzzy finale bleeds into the credits - but cannot deny or undo the reality of the situation.Here's the thing. The final set-piece is one of the best things in the film. When Gondry has something to communicate to the theatre audience he has a marvellously idiosyncratic and well-observed way of achieving it. It's when he's trying to showcase the techniques with which he works that that he comes unstuck. 4/10
Body Of Lies is an earnest, well-made if not convincing film that takes its place in the subset of intrigue-thriller also occupied by the likes of Syriana and Green Zone. I pushed myself through certain barriers - though Mark Strong is a convincing presence (a go-to Arab baddie, he's also in Syriana) he didn't fit the dangerous dandy of Amman he was meant to be. Similarly, there's a plot device in the form of a relationship that DiCaprio's Ferris strikes up with a local nurse. I couldn't swallow that either.Nonetheless I was convinced elsewhere. Russell Crowe's Hoffman is brilliantly - no, really, brilliantly - acted, catching that balance of laconic professionalism that masquerades as complacency. He's helped by the recurring setup of taking phone calls about highly sensitive, dangerous work whilst managing his role as a father. DiCaprio is operating at the high career plateau of the past eight years, charm tantalisingly masked beneath a wall of existential auto-aggression. The special effects are well-managed, i.e. without fetishising them. 7/10
A mixed bag. The content of the film is worn very near the surface: the horror and brutality of kidnap, bullying and sexual abuse are rendered without equivocation. None of the characters is holier than another - everyone has a moral debit. This is a most uncomfortable watch.Luckily the location shoot, largely in and around Mexico City looks great on screen and the acting is good too. Not necessarily from Kline though. This should be a gift of a part, an Academy Award nomination in the bag. Alas, Kline gives us only the surface of his miserably preoccupied fraud cop, only really coming to life in the comic repartee with the Mexican lad his conscience makes him adopt. Tellingly, his key monologue sequence is rendered in flashback. A waste and, consequently, a disappointment. It's left to the victims Alicja Bachleda-Curus and the amazing Paulina Gaitan as Adriana to scratch wretchedly at the heart.The film is further undermined by a plastic dramatisation of an eBay-style auction sequence and suffering a laughably glib ending. But then the denouement was always going to be a half-hearted pay-off to the detailed loathsomeness that had come before. Do not eat before viewing. 4/10
A wonderfully shot, poignant record of Cold War-endgame Berlin. Wenders also creates a more-than-implicit parallel as his angel crosses over not only from eternity to mortality but also from West to East. These are quietly registered but affecting moments in a quiet, affecting film whose poise and gesture is as lyric as the Rilke poetry in its script and at its heart.For a seriously intended film there's lots of fun, not least on the playful, youthful face of Bruno Ganz. This is one of the two key roles of this film, the second being a stroke of genuine casting genius in bringing Peter Falk in to play himself. Falk's involvement seems tangential to begin with but the pungency of his characterisation is beautifully calibrated to fit his role in the story.The third character of first-tier importance is that of Berlin, grey and battered but robust, with scrawny youthful optimism growing like hardy flowers growing on stony ground. That biblical reference may be mine but Wenders' key scene of lover's connection, through a one-way mirror, is straight out of 1 Corinthians, "For now we see through a glass, darkly; but then face to face" The same text starts with: "Though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels, and have not love... it profiteth me nothing".The romance of the b&w vs colour photography and the gigs, including that of Weimerish Nick Cave and the Bad Seeds, seem as present now as 25 years ago. Surprisingly, its the interpolated verse that thickens the otherwise consistent lightness of touch elsewhere. But it is, generally, a lovely film. 7/10
This film is extremely hard work. From the very start Sean Penn's Sam Bicke is shown as weak and deluded. The first half of the movie is an unbearable play-out of his dead-end job. Around him circulate less than sympathetic characters; however, they're not Bicke's antagonists by design - they simply preoccupied, finding themselves thrust against the same grindstone.Those support acts are all pretty nondescript roles. Don Cheadle and Naomi Watts are but the biggest names (Michael Wincott appears in virtual cameo but it's a strong one). More interesting are Jack Thompson's proto-nasty retail boss and Nick Searcy's cold loan broker, ultimately infected limbs in the same septic American dream. The film is all about Bicke - I'd say it's a Penn vehicle only he's so immersed in the role that would seem churlish. His performance is the reason to watch. I wouldn't want to do it again though. 4/10
I was almost put off by the opening 20 minutes. It seems a little clumsy - contrived and unlikely. I came to a hasty conclusion that it's an Art-house film, an allegorical tale in which the exposition isn't particularly important.By the end I'd taken that back, in part. It's a gripping film captured, almost entirely in medium or close shot, on a boat with no further backdrop. It is an allegory of sorts, strongly Oedipal. The two men, thrown together in a sudden opening exchange that is the very inversion of Rutger Hauer's first appearance in The Hitcher fight a none-too-disguised war of one-upmanship (there's a lot of 'cuckolding' talk). The stageyness of this that irked me at first irons itself by the second act in the wonderful equanimity of a sailing set piece. The bare inhumanity rippling the civility of the first act returns in the third to play out the implications of disaster.I didn't really get on with any of the actors at all, but it's not a problem. They're all Polanski's toys anyway. A remarkable part-feminist, part-New Wave modernist fable. 6.5/10
It would be nice to think that whoever commissioned Spielberg to make this terrific thriller is still alive and unbearably smug. Perhaps this is an easier pitch to a TV executive than to a studio feature suit - 'road rage gets out of hand in the Californian desert' - but it's nonetheless a highly economical and enthralling movie from beginning to end.David Mann (Weaver) drives a humdrum car to a business meeting and has an unpleasant but essentially innocuous encounter with the driver of a truck along the way. There are two odd characteristics to this that make the film. Firstly, we quickly lose sight of the fact that the dispute is with another driver, as he remains unseen and anonymous and the truck takes on the characteristics of the slighted road user. Secondly, the truck has the face of a veteran cage fighter looking for his first drink of the day and with seemingly limitless reserves of energy with which to pursue it.Small gestures and props take on inflated, symbolic meanings in this film, given the pared-down production. The deadly game of cat-n-mouse doesn't start until Mann starts a game of pool in a diner. A modulating period of respite from the chase comes as Mann passes a dumping ground for old cars resembling a graveyard. And, of course, the red car rushes about the desert like the red rag in front of an implacable bull. It's a highly manipulative, exhilarating, inexplicable but satisfying thriller which surely deserves the theatre release it was subsequently accorded. 9/10
It's really a 6/10 reworking of My Fair Lady (as opposed to Pygmalion - see the horse racing and couture references) and modernised Cinderella. But the flick fizzes with star appeal, Gere riding the height of his celebrity, Roberts introducing hers. He's all poorly-tethered machismo, she's the least likely hooker on Hollywood boulevard. Perfect.As is often the way in these can't-fail projects, there's an excellent LA support cast. Leading the way are Hector Elizondo's hotel manager and a virtuoso slimeball-turn from Jason Alexander as Gere's attorney... even Patrick Richwood's lift boy has perfect comic timing.It's all a bit obvious in places but no-one cares. 7/10
A ghoulish but surprisingly unfrightening yarn, this Gothic horror is rather like a foggy western played out on the other side of the States. Johnny Depp's Ichabod Crane is a rationalist determined to get to the bottom of a series of murders. His beliefs are challenged when he comes face to face with the paranormal - and, indeed, as he finds himself intoxicated by Katrina, the daughter of the creepy Balthus Van Tassell and likely progenitor of the troubles.Johnny Depp has great acting qualities although I find them oddly skewed when he shows up for work on Tim Burton's sets. It's as if he adopts ill-considered mannerisms and this rather blights this performances. Christina Ricci was in her pomp as the indie-girl of choice in the 1990s and is pleasant to watch albeit in this mainstream role. Christopher Walken loses his head as usual. 4/10
A worthy movie made with little money and ambitious ideas. It's impossible not to see it as environmental agitprop, especially now that climate change has become such a significant issue. There's also an effort to make a convincing sci-fi movie without great resources and I was pleased to see that the 'drones' were only limited in their anthropomorphism, and could not communicate.Yet, the movie is terribly lumbering. Bruce Dern plays his role with a proselytising sincerity that belongs to the time, i.e. his intense, soft-n-slowly spoken lines are an anachronism. Above all, there's no sense in the movie of him taking a decision in the film, changing from being part of the contracted crew to becoming a maverick. His affiliation is with his radical, environment-at-cost-of-human conviction from the start.I like how the film's chapters are punctuated by Joan Baez's songs, keeping the temperament quite bold without forcing the pace. Nonetheless, I felt cut off from the drama and I don't feel that it's a great film. 3/10
Wisecracking Downey Jr., a shamelessly lens-seducing Gwyneth Paltrow and yet another first-class characterisation from Jeff Bridges. Jon Favreau meets this high-calibre casting head on with an unfussy, well-told tale of goodies, baddies, big bangs and a McGyverish/loose cannon geek who can have almost any woman he wants. Chuck in some super CGI/flying sequences and an Audi or three (with some correspondingly stylish set designs) and you've got a popcorn seller.It isn't quite the sophisticated thriller that comments attributed to Favreau would have you believe. In fact it's not highbrow in the slightest, simply doing the things that all summer blockbusters do. But that's why I went to see it. 6.5/10
The Chauvet Cave is rather wonderful, a strictly preserved chamber of stalactites, animal bones and art. Because, yes, the pictures on the undulating, pocketed walls of the Cave are unarguably works of art. These are not just stick representations of the animals with which Paleolithic man shared this stretch of the South of France. There is intent to invest the figures with life. The figures are shown in motion, fighting, communing. Basic chiaroscuro techniques are apparent, fleshing out the animals and accentuating their appearance on the recesses and bumps of the cave. And there is a tantalising, single part-image of a woman, not only elusive in depiction, but also elusive to the cameras of Herzog's skeletal crew.The constraints placed on the crew are austere. They are reduced to four, must stick to a narrow, pre-determined gantry and use equipment that cannot damage the delicate internal ecosystem. It's rather like a version of Jørgen Leth & Lars von Trier's Five Obstructions (except more technical than moral). In an unexpected, sideways move to capture the cave Herzog's best decision is to film in 3D. The benefit of this technology is to show the extreme contours of the cave's surface which the light alone cannot serve to illustrate.Along with the (for all the inspired 3D, not always ideal) footage of the cave Herzog also talks to those who work with the cave. This small, peculiar coterie of scientists analyse the contents and implications of the cave by means both highly technical (every square millimetre has been laser-mapped) and empathetic - a Master Perfumer is introduced to, well, sniff about. Herzog narrates in his idiosyncratic voice-over, offering occasionally wild conjecture about the past but largely crystallising the awe-inspiring gravity of the cave and its discovery in 1994. He is well-served by a nicely judged score by Ernst Reijseger. 7/10
In many ways one is obliged to rank this film highly by virtue of its daring. As if The Umbrellas Of Cherbourg were not extraordinary enough - a through-sung musical, with a bittersweet story of provincial France rendered in in-camera Technicolour - then Les Demoiselles surely tops it. Not through-sung this time (there is spoken dialogue, though one stretch is spoken entirely in verse) there is more dance in its stead. The colour of the film is once again highly co-ordinated but heightened by the film shot almost entirely in bright sunlight. Finally, the perhaps predictable small-town love stories are fleshed out with a bizarre murder red herring and a well-controlled tension.On top of all this, the film has Gene Kelly. His smattering of appearances culminates in a formal set piece that simply assumes yo know what'll happen next and gets on with it, as if God himself had a cameo. Kelly is probably the only person in the world who might have upstaged Catherine Deneuve in a film at this time, and so it comes to pass. Even George Chakiris, the Puerto Rican prince so familiar from West Side Story, brings panache but can't eclipse the world's greatest movie-musical star.Michel Legrand's score is more varied though marginally less pungent than before. His music and the film works best when its fulfilling its camp or extrovert conviction - thought this doesn't extend to a diegetic set piece, where the girls do a Gentlemen Prefer Blondes-type routine.It's charming and baffling in one meringue-like trifle. The way to approach it is in exactly the manner that the film opens, floating into town on the Rochefort-Martrou Transporter Bridge. 7/10
A partial return to form. Revolver was a wet nightmare, to mix metaphors. Some of the (annoying) baroque language and (badly written) philosophy survives in Rocknrolla. In retrospect the acting's a bit half-cock as well. Thandie Newton is too good looking not to be dangerous but could have been quite deadly; the rest are also lukewarm with the exception of Toby Kebbell who has the aforementioned dreadful perorations and dialogue.Still there are some super touches inamongst a nicely convoluted story, like favourite chapters in an otherwise ordinary novel. I wish he'd done a bit more with the strangely tumescent gay subplot. There are also great set pieces, largely courtesy of James Herbert's editing that really does deserve the rock-n-roll sobriquet. 5/10
The best and yet the worst that can be said of this addition to the Bourne canon is that it is a competent, functioning action thriller in the same mould as its predecessors. The pace is slower than the Damon Bournes with no pacey sequence at the front of the first act to get the blood pumping. Jeremy Renner's field operative is physical but lacks the inwardness of Matt Damon. This is partly a function of the story - his humanity is already on the surface where Damon had to dig his out.What this means is that there's not much meat to the back- story. The Bourne Legacy is a thin film with only the lab sequence really opening up questions about the manipulation of minds and the insidious power of the state. Everyone does a perfectly good job but in the same way that we have seen sleepwalking Bond films, so this is the sonnambulant Bourne. 6/10
I really rather enjoyed this film but it is impossible to ignore the facts. Only about half the cast are really in the right roles! It turns out rather well given that Emma Thompson looks more like Kate Winslet's mother than her sister and that Hugh Grant is a cowed and unendearing Ferrars to her Elinor Dashwood. As for Alan Rickman - well, Colonel Brandon is supposed to be an incongruous match for Marianne but it just seems laughable.What the cast lacks in that peculiar, fluid casting-role typography that sets American actors apart it makes up for in professionalism. Naturally, the film also has the most glorious locations with which to work and a great pedigree in mounting period drama. The final feature is affecting and very funny. 6/10
A first-class high concept thriller from Fincher; only Fight Club can claim parity.A lot of the 'appeal' of a film like this is in the morbid fascination of the seven crimes that urge on the misfit detective duo. Cleverly, Andrew Walker's script tapers these stories into one another. The performances are super - I feel bound to say what I think, i.e. that Pitt and Paltrow's performances benefited from their off screen liaison at the time. There's a reality, a buzz to their love and fears for one another. Morgan Freeman does his avuncular tough love act very well; Spacey is a contemptuous, sanctimonious wretch (i.e. he's good too!).Let's be clear though, this is all about Fincher: the creepy designs novel framing and editing - a wonderful shot when Mills (Pitt) first goes after a suspect manages to recreate a real, urban version of Saul Bass' designs for Vertigo with the man in mac and trilby dashing off into the void. He's got the right people to realise the vision which is arresting and stylish. 8/10
A high-concept mistaken identity thriller with a long leash for the considerable comic talents of Carrell and Fey, Date Night is like North By Northwest but with the emphasis on comedy, not suspense. The principals improvise rather capably through a cascade of scenes which function as joined-up sketches. I don't like this technique when Will Ferrell is in the frame but this coupling do a better job.In support is Mark Wahlberg's chest, which is just as good an actor as he is (equivocation, sic). There's a super cameo from William Fichtner (an actor I'm fond of - remember the early appearance in The Dark Knight?) as the dodgy DA and a a generous turn by Ray Liotta playing to type. It's light, largely funny and so (ironically) an ideal date movie. 5/10
A basically satisfying but low-key thriller. It doesn't always look great. It's a largely location-shot piece and there's a sense that Hitchcock is out of his depth working outside the studio. One also feels that the actors are straining at the auteur's leash. The verismo of 1970s American cinema would have been a considerable gravitational force in opposition to the outmoded technical demands of the director.The men of the cast are more striking in general than the women. William Devane is a nasty baddie but Bruce Dern, though a comic protagonist, is also a menacing figure. It's a pity that more is not made of this - in the same way that Hitchcock misses the really big trick of the flick by failing to work the psychic plot thread into the film more thoroughly. 4/10
Sumptuous, convincing, moving. The double Oscar win is precipitated by an extraordinary fifteen minute central tableaux, the ballet of the title: a rare and impeccable example of consensual film-making, there is no weak link between artists, designer, score, visionary direction and breathtaking editing. The film either side of this Damascene sequence is a well-observed (and frankly rather daring) twist on Faust. The prima ballerina chooses art over love before love visits itself upon her; but, emancipated from the wartime maxim of duty first the film looks for a more complicated direction.Naturally, the tale-within-the-tale of the bewitched shoes is a broad, diaphanous metaphor for the love triangle at the centre of the film. Not only does Michael Powell create a stand-alone ballet that acts as a great analogue in itself. He also manages surreal twists that suggest that Victoria Page's experience is a Promethean welding of the two.Moira Shearer as Page is a charming natural, doubly gifted. Marius Goring's well-presented composer is easily overlooked beside the terrific impresario of Anton Walbrook. Prima inter pares though is the Oscar-winning score of Brian Easdale - not only limited to the marvellous ballet but also first rate incidental music, including a vocalise, the unattended operatic premiere, as a spectral backdrop for the spectacular denouement. 9/10
A fairly stock studio action thriller - no new characters, wide audience demographic represented, contemporary themes reflected and God Bless America.This is a cut above though. Doesn't hang about. The plot is always hurtling forward, rather like the 150mph convoy in which the FBI unit is carted around Riyadh. The cast and the bleached out jiggycam in which they're captured is entirely standard too but I was pleased at how Berg handles the thawing of mistrust etc. between the principals as the whodunnit dovetails with danger.The coda is a nastily affectation designed to be a self-deprecating equation of the good and bad guys but I found it a rather ugly Parthian shot. But in its other contrivances it's quite convincing and affecting. 7/10
There is very little to complain of in director J.C. Chandor's own script, the story of a shark-barrel trading company that are first to precipitate a house of cards financial crisis.The cast is wonderful and without weak link. I was delighted to see Simon Baker conjure a subtle shift to become a hideous Gekko 2.0 character where usually he plays a charmer on his TV show The Mentalist. Bettany and Demi Moore are very good, career-iron-clad (this film demands a revisit of Indecent Proposal). Quinto is entirely believable as the hot shot mathematician that blows the lid off the racket and Jeremy Irons is impeccable as the reptilian oligarch who has seen it all and so deals with the panic and its implications as if planning to cover up a raid on the stationery cupboard.Above all this film is about the career middle-man, Sam, the floor- trader overseer who starts the film looking out of touch but finishes as the one lone voice of moral reason. Spacey's performance is Oscar-worthy (it was not recognised in this year's shortlist) and is supported through both script and production by Tucci's equally fine, if more functional role.There's one flaw. On no fewer then three distinct occasions, the script calls for one character to ask another to explain a mathematical nuance and its consequences 'in plain English' or 'as if to a small child'. Yes, we need that level of exposition but it needn't be apologised for so frequently. Chandor's directorial inexperience also showed in the fateful day of trading, a sequence which I didn't expect to see (such as one saw it at all). That said it was a valuable moment of catharsis in a quietly fraught film where the greatest shocks come without a quickening of the pulse. 8/10
Over-insistent score from Philip Glass aside, this is a fine film. In fact the music helps with regard to illuminating the complex emotional taffeta-colour of the characters. It just makes too great a claim for itself. All other contributions are directed and selfless.I would start in this respect with the flowers. That's where it had me when I saw it at the cinema: the technicolour explosion of the Manhattan flower shop (a Vertigo nod) gives way to the unreal cornflower blue of Woolf's Richmond house, the same blue as the icing on Laura's husband's birthday cake. All this would be lost were it not for the frame by frame intensity of Seamus McGarvey's attention to the shoot. An awesome achievement in any strand of the story.Well, Hare and Daldry have come up trumps adapting Cunningham's book with this dense attention to design and editing panache. This would be enough to recommend a viewing but nothing quite prepares one for the power and elusiveness of the three central performances. Nicole Kidman was Oscarified but quite rightly incorporated herself with Moore and Streep. Kidman is no passenger however - her work with Miranda Richardson is the gold standard met by the others. Moore's character is an easier, stripped down trope. With Safe and Far From Heaven already worked through she could phone this in - instead she plays it even closer to the edge, like a terrifying, fresh axe wound. Streep's modern feminine conundrum utterly convinces. The naturalisation and intensity of support form Harris, Janney, Dillane and even Claire Danes means that it might be easy to miss just how good the principal triumvirate is.The best tribute one might pay this film is that it manages beauty and horror simultaneously. The trajectory of the film is set in the suicidal prelude but one cannot help but watch, bewitched. Quite something. 8/10
A super vehicle for Woody Allen's favourite combination of stand-up shtick, neurotic perversity and romance. A mock biopic in which Woody Allen's Virgil Stockwell falls into crime through being a loser there's quite a high gag density, many of them surreal: my favourite is a precariously extended sequence in which he's apprehended after having failed to spell a holdup note correctly.Pity for Virgil comes in the form of a classical 70s beauty Janet Margolin who is prepared to disregard his criminality, lying and general uselessness as he coos over her and makes her laugh. Margolin has little to do beyond blushing demurely: similarly the supporting cast simply have types to play which they do perfectly well. Charming if disposable. 6/10
The set of Cocktail, half of Grease and l'essence de Showgirls shoehorned into a chick-lit jello mould. It skips along stylishly, if predictably enough, just avoiding the sink-hole of out-and-out cheese...... until the end. Everything is jettisoned. Taste, acting, the pretence of storytelling. It's like sixth form girls walking through a film that's already been made. Or perhaps a filmed stage adaptation of a film. When you arrive, you realise that this is where it was all headed and it's shaming that you kept watching.2/10? The girls capably fulfil the purpose for which they were hired and John Goodman is always worth a point.
It could have been a landmark movie with three generations of The Method's finest convening on one set. The end product is a more tame affair though, too light and generic a project to really let the cast build up a head of steam.Essentially a heist thriller with a substantial side role that involved Edward Norton acting as a mentally challenged security guard, The Score bears the weight of it's decorated cast in the ponderous feel of the action. Norton is very good as Jack/Brian but distractingly so - his role as Brian is within the film and not it's main draw. De Niro clearly bears more than the weight of his character's misgivings - he's also carrying the slurring Brando through a rather anonymous appearance.Ultimately, Frank Oz does a commendably professional job in putting together something more than coherent but thoroughly serviceable. For those who know anything about those involved would have hoped for something rather more special though. 5/10
A terrific action movie and the high point of Steven Segal's career. Like many films that I'm aghast I've not written about on IMDb, this is one that I've seen many times and will doubtless watch and enjoy all over again, as predictably as Pavlov's dog (The Fugitive, Davis' subsequent film as director also comes in this bracket for me).Seagal is the big draw, quiet and understated but serious and a big physical presence. He's not an intellectual character but he's got a wistful, salty authority to him that manages to be both serious and gregarious. Perfect for this high seas heist romp then. His nemesis is a double act of spineless thug Gary Busey and Seagal's real doppelganger in Tommy Lee Jones, as Guignol a leading, maddie-baddie as Daniel Day Lewis' butcher in Gangs Of New York - and with the same penchant for knives. Erika Eleniak provides 'love' interest but gets to join in the wisecracks too. Jolly good fun 7/10
The realism is on a par with a Michael Mann film. So too is the concentrated dynamism in a film made up of many short shots and rough- cut sound edited across it. It lends the film a documentary feel and also suggests the tumbling, fragmented sprawl of the trail that Daniel Pearl took up and that the Pakistani security services must follow to try to recover him. It's the busy muddle of paranoid, riven Pakistan.The film is a tense tale of the hunt for Pearl and an account of the impressive fortitude with which his pregnant wife-turned-widow Mariane Pearl bore the experience. Angelina Jolie is very good as Mariane, if a little inflexible, and (ironically) over-made-up to look too plain. Above all, Jolie manages a convincing sense of dignity, a true sense of disingenuous peace with the choice her husband has made - its purpose and dangers, and the dread and drawn-out consequences. Along the way the performance of Irrfan Khan as the Pakistani police Captain is an equivalent study in a noble man trying to keep a clear head.One thing I did find less than satisfactory was Winterbottom's use of music. Plangent or chirpy music was used on occasion to steer, prepare or transfer our emotional responses. This was often at points at which I longed for silence so as not to break the connection established between myself and actor through Marcel Zyskind's camera. The film doesn't lack for punch of its own although it's delivered in a surreptitiously rolled out manner; a temperate film in keeping with the resolve and humanity of the widow rather than the heated hysteria of the murderers. 7/10
A super, straightforward film which recalls a love affair from the 1960s with great affection. It's nicely designed, scripted and shot - but for all that I was quite moved, it really lacked a true killer blow.The problem for me is that Lone Scherfig's adaptation of Lynn Barber's memoir necessarily concentrates on the principal, Jenny, to the neglect of the characters around her. That Jenny's going to be alright doesn't really make for great drama. I found myself much more concerned with Alfred Molina's benighted father (a cuddly version of his conservative moraliser Comte de Reynaud in Chocolat), thrashing about in the double-wake of his wife's emotional literacy and daughter's progressivism. This isn't helped by Carey Mulligan's Jenny being almost too assured a performance, a sort of non-tragic version of Cecilia in The Virgin Suicides, beset by adults operating within an anachronistic educational - and cultural - schematic. Even David (Sarsgaard) emerges as a bit pathetic earlier than I might have anticipated.Still, it's possible to enjoy the romance and nostalgia. A good companion piece to Nowhere Boy concerning the same period of recent British history. 7/10
No improvement on the first sequel. More pratfalls, squishy moments, etc. This time Seann William Scott's Stifler has a more extensive role. There are a few reasons for this. Chris Klein is absent so there's a testosterone vacuum that needs filling. More to the point, a new vein of humour uses the 'Meet The Fockers' joke of prudish bride-parents and Scott's brutishness sets up many of the confrontations that make that gag work.They overplay it though. In fact, plenty gets excessively milked, including a remarkably awful disco set-piece and the most tediously protracted 'stag night' since... zzz 1/10
The opening of From Paris With Love tells you pretty much all you need to know about the film. The music is that of someone browsing radio stations on a car stereo, which settles just as the black screen becomes blazing Parisian spring sun, as we move out of a tunnel following a large car on the banks of the Seine, in a rough but real tracking shot. It's momentarily exhilarating... until it suddenly cuts to the visual equivalent of motion sickness, with excessively shaky vistas of the Eiffel Tower (etc.) which are simply unwatchable.And so is the film, an idea of panache undermined by another ill- conceived one chasing it from behind. Everything's like this, script, overcooked bodycount-action sequences, the inevitable (Gallic) misjudgement of what constitutes appropriate pathos...Luckily Travolta is on great form, rolling out his action thug- entertainer to greater effect than in Pelham 123 (or Broken Arrow/Swordfish, for that matter). Rhys Myers looks great through a camera lens but still - still - has this issue of consistency to overcome, measured one moment, hyperactively angry the next. He should have watched Ethan Hawke in Training Day for this role.Like Taken, there's plenty of drive and action. Also like Taken the contrivances don't quite work - the buddy-some denouement being the toecurlingest of them all. Still the action works hand in hand with the drama, more or less, and there's a sensibly unobtrusive but John Powell- like persistent score from David Buckley (who's clearly having fun with variations on the song 'Close To You' that Travolta mangles in a moment of levity during a car chase). Fun, disposable, 6/10
A tough, raw, hopscotch-with-the-thin-blue-liner from Friedkin. It could have been a classic. Unfortunately it's a bit clumsy. The pursuit of authenticity in set pieces bleeds a prosaic quality into the way the film is put together. Neither does the script allow the actors to absorb and transform in the warp and weft of their undertaking to beat a counterfeiter at all costs. There is no concerted exploration of masculinity or the thrill-seeking nihilism of the existentially wired principals, issues introduced then abandoned. This is where Michael Mann's films succeed.Nonetheless there is a great deal to enjoy here. William Petersen is a wonderfully physical leading man. John Pankow is well-cast as his preppy foil. Willem Dafoe always strikes me as a bit contrived - I've never watched a totally convincing performance - but, funnily, that fits the bill here. Darlanne Fluegel and Debra Feuer play their important, doppelgänger molls very well (and watch out for Jane Leaves' first (mute) feature turn as a lesbian!). The car chase is not a Bullitt or Bourne Identity but, characteristically, excels in the acting during the action.I really wish that Friedkin had been less hard-nosed about this film; there's a much better one begging to get out.
This seems like another well-rendered, generic action thriller until the material of the title begins to grip the picture. Then it gets rough. Joel Schumacher decided to bring the torturous films-within-the-film to the surface. I couldn't say why this is, but given the rather more typical arrangement of the rest of the picture I'm afraid it smacks of controversy-stirring opportunism. That's my opinion.Anyway, the point is I, like many, found this an uncomfortable watch when I rather expected to be whiling away an hour and a half in a tick-box flick. To that extent I didn't mind Cage's Tom Welles wearing a very silly wardrobe without irony or rancour. Gandolfini and Stormare are well-cast as despicable underworldlies; Joaquin Phoenix is unmemorable, although one suspects that's because he did a perfectly good routine job. Approach with caution. 4/10
Dreadful. As a romantic thriller in which an impressionable, scheming nymphette gets dragged into a couple's mid-life wobble, there's a fair bit of sex - imagined, evoked, solipsistic. Well, this is treated fetishistically by Egoyan, pornographically, filling in the blank spaces after emotional sequences. There is nothing to invest the sex with any danger or meaning. I don't buy the idea of Catherine getting entangled with Chloe through some sort of strange, sexual-metaphysical transposition. It just seems like an excuse for two attractive women to get it on.The script is a mess of simplistic statements and incoherence. I imagine that it didn't help having Anna Fontaine (who directed the 2003 film, Nathalie, on which this is based) co-writing the script: having already made a coherent version, reworking it could be more like unravelling it. Julianne Moore, who is the chief protagonist, is really quite good, although clearly acting under Egoyan's direction. Neeson as the husband and Max Thieriot (Michael) are plain and occasionally over-melodramatic.Unforgivably though, Seyfried is hung out to dry by the script and the director. They've no idea what her character is. There's not even an allusion to a history, and her 'call girl' background, which opens the film, is effectively abandoned halfway through. I'm still no better informed as to her real acting capability.I liked Mychael Danna's music but it's disingenuously appropriated as a sub-Hermann lacquer on a film that, despite Egoyan's aspirations, isn't a patch on Hitchcock. Music and its indifferent use throughout the film is actually a striking bell-weather of the film's failings. I knew it was going to be dreadful when one of the opening scenes shows Neeson's music lecturer pointing at students to ask them questions about opera. Point and show is about the extent of the film's dialectic. 2/10
A super 80s matinée for the loudmouthed and often rough-edged talent of Eddie Murphy. A strange amalgam of the odd-couple/buddy movie and Pygmalion, Beverley Hills Cop involves the street-wise black guy shaking up the complacent local fuzz. In fact he hopscotches all over the thin blue line to get things done, blagging his way through the entire movie. No doubt much of Murphy's script was invented in front of the cameras.Murphy has balanced support - Judge Reinhold and John Ashton play a super double-headed straight guy to all this. Berkoff is in a rich vein of baddie-form, having done Octopussy the year before. The real star though is the eponymous hip hop theme tune, mainstreaming hip-hop in the same way that Murphy's Axel is blaxploitation-emancipated. 7/10
As funny as the first on paper. The problem is that with the first all the surprises are blown - it's as if we've seen the second already and not been neuralised.This film relies more heavily on the two principals. This is for two reasons. Firstly, with the jokes better telegraphed the film becomes more of a performance act. Will Smith is the partner in the ascendant here, really timing his jokes well. The second is that in order for there to be some sort of development, relationships have to blossom. These are well-handled and Rosario Dawson is particularly affecting, under the circumstances.The rest is as it was before - i.e. excellent - including an OMG-is-that-for-real cameo from the Prince of Pop. Lara Flynn Boyle might be an exception here but I think her character has a raw deal (inasmuch as she's an alien half the time she's on screen anyway). I can't see a third one. 4/10
The film starts with an explosion of sex, exuberant but chaste. There's plenty more to come (ahem) and Alfonso Cuarón succeeds in making a coherent and worthwhile road movie from the subject.He's helped in no small manner by a superb principal trio of actors. Gael García Bernal is fairly familiar in this country (for his involvement in other foreign language hits rather than big budget English language extravaganzas); Diego Luna is about to become familiar in his own right with his involvement in the Sean Penn vehicle Milk. The central, combustible and testosterone-overdosed performance of this duo needed a strong woman to leaven it and Maribel Verdú is quite excellent. She provides a idiosyncratic character, sober but capricious, sexually arresting but charming not aggressively feminine. I was reminded of Romane Bohringer's enigmatic nymph from Gilles Mimouni's L'Apprtement (although Verdú is a better actor).Cuarón's film doesn't conceal itself. However it's only fully revealed once the credits are rolling, such is the pace and appeal of what's immediately on offer. Rural Mexico and the army of passing 'extras' on the road are no small contributor to that. Very impressive 7.5/10
Parodied to good effect in The Great Escape, La Grande Illusion is a celebrated paen to humanity. What is 'La Grande Illusion'? The title refers to a contemporaneously notorious publication which argues that war was outdated. Renoir's film sells this idea, indirectly. At no point during the film does one see any conflict of any kind - the war and its contingent antagonism seems more like hearsay (like the radio reports that spark a Casablanca-style partisan singing of La Marseillaise).Instead the film is about the communality of the men. Whilst there's plenty of humour to be found in national stereotypes - Germanic regulation fetishism, French Epicureanism and a British officer blowing his chances of escape by apologising to mask his ignorance of another language (even a moment of anti-Semitism has no more purchase than a jibe about over-literary Russians) - the men are generally united by a mutual sense of duty and patriotism. The touching third act at the Swiss border felt like overkill to me, although I was too involved for it to matter.What delights me about this film is the quality of the acting. As in La Règle du Jeu the cast are uniformly wonderful. Jean Gabin may be prima inter pares as the working class pilot Maréchal but no-one else is overstated, as can often be the way in pre-war films. Renoir's handling of the camera is unobtrusive and entirely natural. A sophisticated, unpatronising and above all unhectoring Jeremiad on the pointlessness of modern (specifically European) conflict. 7/10
Inception is a puzzlebloxbuster, a Momento for those with Matrix- withdrawal. It's a long film but, unlike The Dark Knight, it doesn't feel like it; it's a disturbing, exhilarating hit, never boring even when it's baffling.Littered with Nolanisms (Nolanemes?) it moves ahead with great economy, with mute flashbacks over present dialogue and jumps ahead when he considers we're getting the idea. It's also got a clear smattering of movie-fan homages, from the coup in a Chinese domesticity that recalls the opium den of Once Upon A Time In America to a clearly Kubrickian scene, borrowed from 2001. This - and the post-Bourne, boys-own conflagration of action-adventure - makes for a terrific afternoon at the pictures on its own.However, this is no straightforward grand-concept & romp. Nolan has substantial points to make about the contingency of image - the nature of what we believe we can see with our own eyes. He manages this rather tricky, layered storytelling rather well. I enjoyed the acting contribution in this, a cast trusting in the outlandish sci-fi of the situation, behaving without the arched-eyebrows of dissociating irony. Leo DiCaprio is very good in this type of role, although he's done his best work in this line for Martin Scorsese, principally in The Departed.Two caveats. Firstly Ellen Page's Ariadne is too jejune to be a convincing psychoanalytic foil for DiCaprio. I didn't believe her. Secondly, this film doesn't have the economy of Momento. This is largely because of its visual scale. But it's also, necessarily, a chatty sort of flick, and though Nolan has managed the drama-exposition balance very well what he hasn't done is managed the sound mix at all. I focused hard on this film, knowing something of Nolan's style and oeuvre and missed many crucial exchanges through no fault of mine or my cinema's.Having said that, this may be the perfect excuse to go and see it for the inevitable second time. 8/10
There's plenty more of the same, Mike Myers' strong suit. There's also a roster of new characters because more of the same is actually pretty dull on its own. I must say that hearing of Jennifer Saunders being contracted to do this film caught me out - although she (inevitably) turns out to be very good indeed - maybe the most entertaining thing is this rather weak sequel.In fact, the Mike Myers show is difficult to beat and Eddie Murphy brays down all cynical ramparts to our affection once again. I liked Banderas' (brilliantly cast) Puss and the sliminess of Rupert Everett's Prince Charming, which he is manifestly not. I have to say though that I'm scratching around a bit. I didn't go for Cleese at all - and though Julie Andrews' voice is sonic royal jelly it seems slightly awkward. The animation's never anymore than good, relying on sight gags and twists. And the music's dreadful. 3/10
A unique masterpiece of storytelling invention. It's a straightforward pulp tale, told from both ends in alternate contrary motion to accentuate the high concept - the principal character's inability to retain recent memories. Guy Pearce is super as Leonard, the vengeful serial amnesiac. Joe Pantoliano's Teddy is a super foil for Lenny's purposefulness and dry humour which, with the kaleidoscopic plot trajectory, might otherwise get a bit much.Of course the film has a unique double appeal for the audience who are not only trying to work out whodunnit but also what is going on in real (i.e. non-'flashback') time. The movie is more than an exercise though. Leonard keeps referring to his own previous experience of the condition he now labours under, Sammy Jankis, of whom he says: "When I looked into his eyes I thought I saw recognition - now I know you fake it". The film's hidden message concerns how we all make up small, expedient lies and accept the same in order to get by; and in that act lies both comfort and the possibility of tragedy. Marvellous. 8/10
Super flick. It needs a lot of nurturing, the idea, but Barry Sonnenfeld keeps everything moving at such a pace that you never feel you're ever ahead of the jokes. Tommy Lee Jones must (under that cliff face) think he's hit the jackpot for a paydirt picture: he just has to be himself, deadpan, weary but surprising. And everyone - including me - loves Will Smith, who keeps his improvising just in check.This is also an exemplary studio feature inasmuch as there's no hierarchy of labour. The animation and graphics, as well as foley artists right down (up?) to Danny Elfman writing the music are as important as one another. Ironically Men In Black a super postmodern comedy, but also a very modern achievement in terms of its composition. 7/10
A high concept action thriller with big guns both actual and metaphorical. The biggest is the director, John Woo who brings his pseud-operatic melodrama to town after having tried it out in the desert in Broken Arrow. John Travolta and Nick Cage get to pay the good guy and the bad guy alternately in the same film. It can't fail can it? Actually, it's not bad. Woo's manipulation of the conventions of genre arrived in the States almost fully formed. The picture looks slick and carries you along effortlessly, as long as you don't think too hard. Travolta and Cage don't have to do much more than bark and emote, but they do put some effort into being each other with their own face (or the other way around...) which does mean the film makes sense. The end does descend into silliness, rather like Swordfish but a shot like Cage toting a pair of gold-plated Gats was sufficiently cool to have McG get Demi Moore to repeat it in Charlie's Angels. Yup, it's a film of that pedigree. 5/10
A fairly straightforward sell: Mike Leigh domesticity meets Guy Ritchie's modern London gangster chronicles; this time the thugs will be Russian.The project must have looked even better with Watts, Mortensen, Cassel and Armin Mueller-Stahl signing on to work with David Cronenberg. It's a terrible shame then that the film is so pedestrian and lumpen. Viggo Mortensen's craggy, deceptively still chauffeur gives a much better performance than this loose-ended story of made men and miserable maids deserves. Every constructed threat fizzles out, with one set-piece exception which nonetheless - certainly in these times of Bourne-choreography - seems rather four-square.Howard Shore's score rises above all this. A little more ambition would have done wonders for everything. Beginning to wonder about Cronenberg. 5/10
Ang Lee's well intentioned, zen-theatrical dissection of the Marvel character investigated Banner's id, but failed to connect with the beast within the audience. So, here's the reboot for the tickbox audience. It works pretty well. The title sequence is a montage that recalls the 70s TV show and Lou Ferrigno has a (yucky) cameo. There's plenty of splashy, CGI-invested action, attempts at levity, and a sequel is explicitly suggested on no less than three occasions.It's far from perfectly edited though, with Norton's Banner often caught lounging on the blocks at the beginning of each action sequence. The second of these is pretty nasty, a cheap background of a college campus invaded by increasingly high-calibre hardware whenever the 2-D William Hurt bellows 'Where's that goddamn cannon/helicopter/Death Star?'. Tim Roth's Russian-English bad guy is the only one really investing lines with a panache aligned to the gravity-wit cocktail Leterrier is creating, although I liked Norton despite himself (if that makes any sense).If you enjoyed Ironman last month, The Incredible Hulk will give you exactly the same experience. I was just glad I watched it on London's BFI state-of-the-art IMAX screen which, being roughly the size of Stan Lee's royalty cheque at the moment more than made up for it being, ultimately, rather run of the mill. 5/10
Essentially an adult musical, the movie manages to dissolve its profanity in the witty song arrangements. These become less interesting as the film goes on but they competently carry a great deal of the film's expectations.It's about twenty-five minutes too long. Animation can't sustain longer formats however good the voice-over work and script. Luckily so much else is very good. The endless geyser of foul language, also the content of the film, is well-managed to make it all enjoyable rather than repellent. I didn't think there was quite enough investigation of the characters with whom one is familiar from the usual 20-min length episodes but Stone & Parker had a plot arc plan and stuck to it. OK. 4/10
This brutal, thrilling and sparingly touching film might be best described as a Midwest Cosa Nostra movie. Everything about the movie is hard. The images recall John Hillcoat's The Road with its cold, grey landscapes. The children that mitigate against the lifeless woodland don't smile. They are cared for by their sister Ree whose spirit is the sinewy heart of the movie; she doesn't smile either.Ree's absent father is being hunted for breaking bail and she finds herself between the proverbial rock and hard place. The bail bond is her home but finding her father, dead or alive, means asking questions in a place where folk don't even want to be seen to be answering. Director Debra Granik has an impressive control over the mutually complementary strands of story. The unfolding thriller and the backstory which makes sense of it are told at the same organic pace, without rushing. Everything is revealed through character, none more so than that of the proud, post-pubescently beautiful Jennifer Lawrence. It's an intense but never highly-strung performance, moments of insouciance just as meaningful as those of rage or fear. The supporting cast are all consistently excellent too, managing that sense of wistfulness, weariness and pride that makes the perpetual sense of threat substantial and real.One gets the impression that there's even more going on in this film. Folk music is persistently featured for its vital associations of hope and joy rather than any shorthand for fusty conservatism. The one interpolation of modernism - raucous hip hop music and the man playing it wearing a gaudy yellow track suit - are simply contemptible.Indeed the man may be contemptible but his role is not token, providing another angle on the pervasive misogyny that Winter's Bone grapples with. Men are not dismissed, en masse, as bullying and boorish. The subordination of women is represented as socially well-adjusted. Such an anachronism may be a reason why this society finds itself down on its luck, but that's not Debra Granik's subject.Instead, she uses the threat of a strong woman, in Ree, to fuel the drama. It's possible that the most important part of the film is that in which Ree attempts to join the military, to secure a cash sweetener. This is a precariously delicate scene which has all manner of faint suggestions about women signing up for a fighting force that, in recent memory, has gone abroad to invade patriarchal societies with very little return, in social-revolutionary terms, to show for it. I found the scene with its long echo in the memory at least as eloquent a drama as the conflict-stalemate that is Kathryn Bigelow's The Hurt Locker. These latter thoughts are the resonance of a morning's reflection. One shouldn't ignore that the film is a super drama in simple generic terms too. 8/10
A stock, futuristic sci-fi thriller whose novelty is in the design. Once this is spent - and it's cashed quickly - there is little else. From La Jetee to the Matrix via Planet of the Apes the borrowing is heavy and little disguised. The revealed story is saccharine and inert, not helped by dry scripting phoned in by the cast. No, I didn't like it...That said, there's no one quite like Tom Cruise to carry a movie. Intense, good-looking and committed, I always get a minimum return on my ticket. Angel Riseborough is a nice foil, although she seems a little awkward in her proforma role; little tics and looks as if she wanted to break out of this dreadful mould-role kept me onside. Don't worry, this will be an interim earner for this fine British actress as she plans the next Brighton Rock or Made In Dagenham. Olga Kurylenko was more exciting in QoS.Like the surface of the Earth in 2077, a waste. 3/10
A dense but arresting film which is determined to be serious if only in its content. One is tempted to ask whether this film would have been better served had he decided to use a separate director. I would love to know what David O. Russell, the director of I *heart* Huckabees, would have made of this script.In fact my yearning for a separate director goes beyond longing for a sense of perspective on Kaufmann's audacious, downbeat, existentially self-consuming dramatic essay. Watching the film one gets an impression of Kaufmann having used other director's shots to mount his story - nothing flashy or 'patented', just a sense that he'd put himself in the position of some other. Rather like the characters in the story in fact.Philip Seymour Hoffmann earns the Oscar that he did in fact win (via Capote) here. It's just his sort of niche, insecure and lumpen; he doesn't disintegrate so much as mould or melt - his trick is to manage to wring pity from us despite a sense of disgust. The rest of cast is premium and doesn't disappoint. Samantha Morton's Hazel is prima inter pares by virtue of her character.It can't help but be an art-house movie, despite its good humour, something which gets the better of it in the final, metastasising half hour. But it is a wonder of warped-dimensional plotting and food for thought even when you've lost a grip on what's 'actually' going on. 7/10
An enjoyable, pacy film. It's let down a bit with rather rudimentary, unlovely filming and a Michael Mann-like unintelligibility in the way in which the script is delivered.But the performances are worth the price of a theatre ticket alone. Leonardo diCaprio is excellent, the equal of a striking Jack Nicholson. Ray Winstone's accent is rubbish, but the rest of his performance is as good as the best. Matt Damon, Martin Sheen and ('newcomer') Vera Farmiga bring up a good seond tier of support acts... but Mark Wahlberg's performance is as bad as his hair piece (yes, hair piece).It's also a peculiarly edited film. Sequences even as short as a few seconds can be made up of many different shots. Scorsese grafts the whole together with a carefully selected and dovetailed soundtrack. It's a very fluid, even slippery way of pulling the film together, but it lends itself to the duplicitousness of characters and film alike. 7/10
A classic high watermark of Cary Grant's screwball-comic output, Arsenic And Old Lace is a fun and occasionally bewildering ensemble triumph. The bizarre marriage of Cary Grant's physical and facial hyperactivity and austere, sincere tableaux of European expressionist cinema mean that I was never quite sure whether to laugh or not.One of the great assets of the picture is Raymond Massey's monumental, irony-free psycho-nephew Jonathan Brewster. His grey imperiousness allows Peter Lorre to perform his shtick without having to try too hard. It also offsets the wonderful, composed battiness of the two aunts Josephine Hull and Jean Adair perfectly. All the small roles are nicely taken. Cary Grant is totally over the top from the start - but in amongst a crowd of stereotypes and lunatics, his high-strung modern man simply comes across as an amplified version of us all... hence the peculiar but eventually self-explanatory prologue scene at the baseball ground. 7/10
Bikers causing trouble at the seafront? Operatic chase shots over white cliffs involving helicopters? No, this isn't Quadrophenia but it does have that same sense of documenting the zeitgeist, this time at the Cold War peak of 1963.It's a very cleverly composed film. For the first half hour we assume that this going to be some Clockwork Orange precedent about casual, nihilistic violence. Macdonald Carey's American tourist Simon chases after Shirley Ann Field's Joan, old-school seaside bait for the novelty of recreational assault by her boyfriend's gang. Simon is a sort of seedy version of Jimmy Stewart - he's got the maturity to abjure Joan's youthful attachment to the gang and encourages her to escape. That escape comes at the old price though, that she should give her youth over to him.This isn't going to work though in a film in which the wartime generations expectations are being challenged or thwarted. Joan's symbolic rejection of both the gang leader King (Reed) and Simon leads into the unexpected second act of the film. The three stumble upon a secret project to repopulate the earth after the perceived inevitability of nuclear holocaust.There was a lot of laughter at the screening I attended, a fair bit of which was directed at the dated malapropisms of the script and action (Reed and Field are also risibly half-hearted in their 'working-class' accents). Nonetheless, the twists and turns of the plot and action are startling but coherent - despite the incredulity of what we're being shown, it's sufficiently well-constructed to be believable. Alexander Knox is a truly chilling presence, successfully mixing the avuncular with borderline insane self-possession. Other performances are less good but Weymouth and Portland Bill are well-used in what is ultimately an auteur's statement. 5.5/10
An inspiring, uplifting story although told in a rather more pragmatic film. With all the original conspirators talking to camera and a fair bit of original footage the story basically tells itself. Marsh steps in to stick the whole thing together with reconstructions. Some feature the flamboyant Petit himself - elsewhere, and for me, more distractingly, with graphics or a son et lumière-style rigging sequence. At least he stays true to the Gallic light-heartedness of those recalling the event.To his principal credit though, Marsh never refers to the razing of the buildings in the 9/11 terrorist attacks (although the necessarily underhand infiltration of the building has a conspiratorial resonance that makes it horribly tense). Instead the film tries to preserve the pure existential nature of the stunt. A man does something which has apparently no purpose and is framed only by social censure (it's illegal) or death. Gilding the act with Satie is a case in point of the whole film: arguably overdone, but perhaps inflated melodrama is all that allows us to deal with an act this surreal. 7/10*'Il ne regrette rien' counts as a comment-terminating contravention of IMDb guidelines, apparently.
A clean, well-acted suspense thriller. Even if it was trash, you'd still want to see it as Grace Kelly stars. She is, as is often noted, the ideal blonde leading female for Hitchcock. With floral good looks, and childish glee or lens-friendly cool at the drop of a hat, she can act as well. She must be the main draw in a movie that pragmatically revolves around its conniving British cad Milland. He has all the wretched self-assurance that seems primed for the fall. Robert Cummings' impetuous American lover is less likable, but everyone, even John Williams' reassuring inspector is morally compromised by the end of the film - it's all a question of degrees.The fun of the film is in the suspense. We know who's organised the 'murder' - but will they pull it off? Will they be found out? Hitchcock manages the twists of happenstance as the plot and its aftermath play out with as much elusive cause and effect as that which is going on in the investigation of the crime. And it's (almost) all - like Rope - played out on a single set. Terrific 7.5/10
Entertaining, I guess. Samuel L Jackson is naturally urbane. Richard Roundtree gets a role, rather than a cameo. Christian Bale is a high-calibre baddie - Jeffrey Wright is always watchable. Just like the celebrated blaxploitation films of the 70s retribution comes through a conflict of charisma.I found myself wincing at the screen though. You can take or leave the homeboyishness - I think it's actually diluted for a mainstream audience. What's less comfortable (given this mainstreaming) is that Shaft's unorthodox methods, not only rule-breaking but invariably threatening people with violence, meet no resistance. He's no anti-hero, he's just a hero - even when he's knocking out a riot-act reading superior or nipping a youthful drug dealer in his bud. Not only is it morally questionable, it's also a bit boring. There's no danger to it, no frisson, if everyone thinks it's OK to pistol whip a teenager for the sake of a woman's smile.A simple film. 4/10
Dinner party question: who's the 'Boy'? Naturally there's a boy in the film but of course, this being based on a book by Nick Hornby the principal male adult is nothing of the sort, being immature, clumsy and stunted - although very entertaining.Through a bizarre chicane of circumstances Hugh Grant's Will ends up befriending Nicholas Hoult's Marcus, a socially marginalised schoolboy who shares his disenfranchised fatalism. Both 'men' are staring down a very dilute existential issue: the former, the trappings of his failure to grow up; the latter his mother's depression. Toni Colette is the prize turn as a neurotic, bohemian North London mum who, like her son and his friend, has lost sight of the plot. Grant gives his charming dope routine a bit of an edge and carries the film amiably; Hoult is also very good. Rachel Weisz turns up as the girlfriend who, one hopes, Will won't dump at his favourite restaurant rendezvous this time. 6/10
I'm loathe to find the faults in a perfectly entertaining heist-romance yarn such as this. Really though, the film is a bit too cynical with a preposterous, early set piece which involves Catherine Zeta-Jones doing calisthenics in a light show for the benefit of those unwilling to simply rent pornography. There are ways of doing things like this and Jon Amiel's ain't one of them.Still, dollar-eying solipsism aside, the film is harmless and entertaining enough. The premise is basically the same as The Thomas Crown Affair - insurance agent and master thief go head-to-head and the inevitable romance muddles the reason for their original liaison (although the later film does all this better). Much fuss was made at the time of release of the age difference between the principals but it's well-handled on screen. 5/10
A tangy, well-acted, thoroughly low-key indie about growing up and trying to fit in, Ghost World documents the blurred difference between those who chose to fit in and those who can't despite themselves. At the centre of the film is a wonderful, melancholy performance from Steve Buscemi as Seymour, a square peg record collector perpetually at odds with the round hole of society.Thora Birch and Scarlett Johannsen are the couple who, growing up and around this man in this town, come face to face with the complexities of beckoning adulthood. At first secure in their disdain for the apparent pointlessness of their suburbia they feel able to pick on Seymour. But as Johannsen's Rebecca moves off into work and Birch's Enid finds the value in Seymour so everything begins to change. Excellent performances form the principal duo, particularly Birch who, of course, partly reworked this to great effect in American Beauty. 6/10
Pi is essentially about the attempt to assert total control over the world. Max's obsessiveness with the inherent digitisation and thus predictability of things attracts Wall Street and fundamentalists alike. In prosaic terms the end is a predictable liberation from this self- calcifying rictus of the mind. It's not a hackneyed disappointment though, as Aronofsky's style and umbrella of references make it more about the experience than the outcome.A latter-day expressionist film, it's grainy with high-contrast black and white images. The cuts are fast and hard with mirror images, doubles and misdirectional chiaroscuro taking on a formative, poetic substance in Max's vision. Ultimately, much of the frame of reference is Max's; shots with a camera strapped to him as he walks, or panning with him to the abstraction of the background serve to intensify his isolation. The though emerges: with the objective world reduced to a blur in his vision, how can we believe that his objectification of the world through a number is not also a subjective imposition - especially if the number only exists within his head?I saw a bit of Eraserhead in this film, with its low-level, industrialised sound design and mechanised dance music. There are also the symbolic trappings of Kafkaesque paranoia (oppressive corporations, stalkers). The ants that proliferate throughout the film are a Daliesque touch, in line with the Bunuel-like - oh, OK, let's be consistent - Bunuel-esque lurching in the editing. It's not as capricious a movie as these though and its story remains linear, intact. Sean Gullette is very good as the fevered protagonist. As low-budget, b&w films go it's probably closest to Christopher Nolan's own first feature Following and almost as gripping. 6/10
What is clear from the film as well as from the apocrypha surrounding it is that this is a very personal project of Paul Thomas Anderson. A broad cast of fine actors give him everything for all three acts over 3 hours... but whimsy gets the better of the film.For the first two acts there's rage and suspense. Then the experiments start - a noble thing in itself, but the movies are objects that can be appraised and reworked if they're not functioning and this has been left sprawling and untutored. The third act threatens twists and peculiar revelation, tie-ups and shock but only a portion of this is delivered. One cannot write this off within the subject of the film itself, i.e. 'odd things do happen'. I was also puzzled by his blanket obsession with Aimee Mann, whose songs compromised Jon Brion's interesting and interestingly used score.So, transfixing over the first two hours, a muscular, heated span of film-making that exposed the disappointment of the final third all the more. 6/10
This is a remarkable film, an exercise in straightforward storytelling that nonetheless remains elliptical at its conclusion. The dense symbolism of the film is in evidence form the first frame, with two Godot-like figures sheltering from a rainstorm in the ruin of a traditional Japanese building. A third, hobo-fool character passes through and gets them to discuss their preoccupation. It's nothing to do with the building or the weather though - their fettered speech is because they have heard four different versions of the same awful crime.All four accounts get played out in flashback, interspersed with tableaux from the court which hears them (we, the audience, sit as police). The accounts are melodramatic, often rather funny (largely through Toshirô Mifune's manic laughter as the bandit Tajômaru). The stories and their staging occur in bright sunlight and its concomitant, high-contrast shadow, which becomes a dappled net of light and shade in the grove of the crime. Disturbingly the accounts all contradict each other; crucially this contradiction is shifts the blame-apportion but barely changing the outcome. Instead, the tragedy transfers to those in the present who cannot grip the perspective of dishonesty and tragedy, or what it means.I see Rashomon as a fresh-minted parable, old period & characters narrating and acting out a story for modern, hurting Japan, which was emerging from the trauma of post-war shame and suffering. The conclusion is complex, but not ambivalent: the woodcutter, though stripped of confidence, reason and moral relativity retains an irreducible grip on his humanity, enough to carry the future of Japan out into the new sun. 7/10
West Side Story this ain't. Yet Grease is probably more popular, with it's celebrity cast, bubblegum production design, catchy numbers and terrific joie de vivre. Danny and Sandy are the least likely of high school sweethearts so when she turns up at his school, drama ensues as they try and negotiate the treacherous playground politics to rekindle their Summer Lovin'.The almost indecently attractive central couple of John Travolta and Olivia Newton John as Danny and Sandy is truly wonderful - they not only look good, they can sing and dance too. The spark though is the leader of the Pink Ladies Gang, (Betty) Rizzo, played by Stockard Channing. Here is the imperfect leader, the female icon to which Sandy is expected to aspire if she or any other girls wants their man. Yet Rizzo's complicated, melancholy at having given too much of herself away to achieve her status. It's a great performance that gives the whole bundle of fun some real weight. 6/10
It turns out that Banksy can tell a story well, too. This is a super, era-defining 'documentary'. Although it's almost impossible to separate fact from faux, it hardly matters. The Keyser Söze figure of Banksy himself allows the focus of the film to slip off him onto relatively peripheral characters like Shepard Fairey and a number of European street artists. At the centre is the only truly fictional character, Thierry, who is 'responsible' for the guerrilla footage of the artists at work and then gets sucked into the production of the art himself. It's a cunning Man Bites Dog-style, 'gone native' reversal which only serves to confirm the elusiveness of the true filmmaker.As I say, the film documents the rise of real urban art: how the internet has allowed the temporary nature of graffiti to achieve a wide audience and some sort of permanence. It also dusts down perennial discussions about the value of art. All this is unfussy though, couched in a mad story which trips along well. Naturally, a lot of the footage is after dark and, with the style always cleaving towards realist, the images are sometimes a bit rubbish. I'm just pleased it wasn't an hour and a half of rough cuts of being chased by the police. 7/10
Hot on the heels of Alien, a very different sci-fi thriller - and some might also say horror. This is a classier if less visceral sci-fi opera than its predecessor. It's composed and full of wonder although there's melancholy in the awe and this really concentrates the romance: the romance of the future and the personal romance of the protagonists.Essentially it's a political drama (I, Robot owes grateful thanks) with androids who suffer the Cartesian brain-in-a-vat conundrum (i.e. am I human or is the person controlling me making me think I am?). A small group of the androids exhibit their considerable physical advantages in order to violently dispense with the possibility of discovery and premature annihilation. Rutger Hauer leads this motley crew with insidious but, astonishingly, sympathetic panache and Daryl Hannah is hugely charismatic as his accomplice. Harrison Ford is the android hunter who cannot help himself when he falls in love with a self-denying android in Sean Young (who wouldn't fall in love with Sean Young circa 1982?). Bit parts and baddies - particularly the discreetly underplayed Dr Evil/Tyrell of Joe Turkel - are above averagely taken. The design's wonderfully conceived and executed and there is an iconic score from Vangelis. 9/10
It is very difficult to see this film as anything other than Tinseltown-style agitprop for homosexuality and it stinks. I think it must be very difficult to construct a film principally about homosexuality in the vernacular of the mainstream audience: Philadelphia's about AIDS; Brokeback Mountain is a lovestory... I couldn't watch Gods and Monsters as a Norma Desmond-style paen to an old timer's Hollywood career as it seems transfixed on the carnal relationship between the two principals and the twist is a weak sop, far too little too late.McKellen should probably have known better but probably took on the project as a way of increasing the profile of homosexuality in the industry. That's all well and good but this isn't the vehicle for it, an insidious and confused medley of episodes which have more in common with a moody game of spin the bottle than a drama. Brendan Fraser tries hard. He is clearly an actor with more strings to his bow than the chisel-jawed hunk, but in this film he was cast primarily with the latter in mind. Lynn Redgrave is the only one to come out of the film carrying the dying embers of the flame of pathos. Bill Condon did better later with Kinsey, thank goodness for him. 2/10
What always strikes me about this film is that there's next to no chiaroscuro - no shadows. Most of the shots are comprehensively well-lit, stark even. It's a very straightforward film, almost ritual. Nothing emerges from a gloomy screen. Everything is precipitated in the gloom of the audience's imagination, rung like a bell in empathy with the increasing psychological delirium of Jack Nicholson's Sam Torrance.Indeed, Nicholson is at the head of a small cast which admirably fulfil their roles. Naturally, one gets the impression that Kubrick had already mapped out almost exactly how each character would move in each frame; nonetheless Nicholson manages to maintain an integrity and charm.Charm might well be a key idea in The Shining. As in all horror movies one moves from the everyday to the demonic. The Shining manages to twist its screw with the lightest of touches, holding the audience with poise, humour and irony - the charm of the dance partner. The final sequence is a virtuosic, runaway escalation of what has come before. Hideous and dazzling. 9.5/10
I got rather excited by this film at the first shot of the slum of the title. Danny Boyle conjures up a fiesta of colour and childish exuberance as a horde of youngsters charge between cricket and class. All the trademark verve and élan is on show and things look promising.In as much as this was my first impression of the film I left (an excessive 2 hours later) rather disappointed. Slumdog Millionaire is essentially a romantic melodrama stitched into an edition of Who Want To Be A Millionaire: a Primark suit with a turmeric-bright lining. There is a suggestion of the answers to questions being, serendipitously, key events in the life of the principal, Jawal, but I found this dubiously handled (I blame editor Chris Dickens for this idea-muddling). There's also an attempt to incorporate a sense of latter-day India which comes across as much as a state-supported advert as wit or simply backdrop.Still, it's a well-rendered story due in no little part to the super cast. Three generations of Dev and Salim Patel and Litika have a substantial commitment in the film and fulfil it admirably. The big winner of the project though is Anthony Dod Mantle's photography which looks wonderful whatever eventually befalls it. 6/10
A liberal agitprop action adventure with four principals, the fourth being Africa. This successful, entertaining film spends a lot of the time looking around itself at the country whose very earth is 'stained red with blood' and very nicely filmed it is too.Unfortunately this romantic, wandering gaze is also symptomatic of the film's attempt to contrive feeling where no extra effort is necessary - the film is too long and can be too schmaltzy as a result. The worst offender is James Newton Howard's utterly banal score which laminates the thing like some sort of cheap varnish.If one makes the effort to look past the contrivances though the film is strong. The story is well plotted in an excellent script, the film is carried by the two outstanding principal men (one can forgive DiCaprio's dreadful Southifrikan accent). Connelly is also good, if rather less involved. 6/10
An entertaining comedy taking a lead from the cross-dressing favourite Tootsie. Where employment was hard to come by for Dustin Hoffman's performer Mike Dorsey, so in situ parenting is being denied Robin Williams' divorced Daniel Hillard, largely by his own willfulness. As a ruse to circumvent the visiting restrictions, Daniel dresses as the eponymous Doubtfire to nanny/father the children.This is a consciously sillier film than Tootsie - put Williams in prosthetics and a dress and you've got it coming, frankly. That said, the story is substantial and the performances perfectly good: Sally Field as Daniel's wife and Pierce Brosnan as the luckless love-rival are game as a straight-guy double act. A well-handled feelgood. 6/10
I liked some of the acting and the scenarios from which the characters step out and across each others' lives. That's about it in this nicely constructed but vanilla-flavoured indie flick.I think that the idea is to examine the warped perspective of New Yorkers and how they come to see what's worthwhile and good. That message is rather trite in the end and there is little sense of drama or epiphany leading to it. The ironic-sump sensibility of the urbane women admits no slight, no drama. I found it rather hard work. At least Woody Allen feigned shock, rather than an expression of Teflon-covered rictus.Sadly, the film isn't even meant to be as funny as classic Woody Allen flicks are but to carry a higher purpose. The joy of high water-mark Allen is that his dramatic goals almost catch him by surprise. I did enjoy the urbanity of the humour but always with a sense of its knowingness, which sours the joke. 4/10
After the pan-European schlep of '12' we're back in the Casino. The glitz and suspense of focusing on a single, spangly venue is a welcome return - and, of course, the glamour is half the reason for seeing the film.However, the script is the choppiest yet. Non-sequitur dialogue bookends 'cool' aphorisms and the inevitable in-house jokes. This makes following the thing very difficult. I know it's meant to keep you guessing as to how they're going to pull things off but sometimes I wonder if Soderbergh has forgotten the audience.Talking of forgetting people: having Al Pacino on the project as well as trying to find cameos for all those who have become part of the shenanigans means there's now not enough to go round. Bernie Mac loses out; Vincent Cassel & Andy Garcia's parts are lumpen add-ons. Even Pacino seems a bit diluted.Loved Ellen Barkin though, who brought some haughteur back to the minority women's contingent. And a quick word too for Olga Sosnovska (an important character in the premium middle-period of BBC spy series Spooks) who managed to be striking and cool in her few moments as a Bank Hotel receptionist.Passed an evening, but they can leave it there. I will. 5/10
A well acted, if clunky-looking tripartite film: it concerns the rise of modern politics; the cult of Diana, Princess of Wales; and examines the nature and future of the monarchy.As a film about the monarchy - the eponymous Queen is simply the principal character in an ensemble - The Queen is a balanced but not exactly penetrating affair. Mirren's performance is a fine one, but no more than we'd expect from her.More interesting is the interpretation of Blair by Michael Sheen caught in a social whirlwind only partly of his own making. Sheen is prepared to play along with the cartoonish elements of Frears' concept (the Newcastle United strip etc.). Nonetheless he doesn't play him as a compulsive ingrate: he's more master of the vortex than either the shaman-elect Campbell or the long-in-the-tooth Monarch give him credit for.Most memorable though are the extensive though surreptitious montages of actual and reconstructed footage of the period between Diana's death and burial. The backdrop of Balmoral might well be a broad metaphor for the Queen and her role but the whole film may well be said to provide an armature for the self-study and turbulence of Diana's life and death - and how we found ourselves reflected in it. 5/10
Carrie is a melodramatisation of how a closed group of women react to a one amongst them coming (publicly) to maturity. Innocence lasts only as long as the credits, a beautiful, prelapsarian sequence that ends violently (and following a shot of the most phallic showerhead I've ever seen - the only real male intervention in the film).Panic, jealousy and desire take over. Nancy Allen's hideous high school bitch Chris can't stand being usurped by Carrie in her relationship with the gym teacher Miss Collins (whenever sex is on the surface of the plot, people get slapped. Billy - Travolta, a nice cameo as a thug - hits the scheming Chris before she pleasures him, Miss Collins hits out at Chris' uncontained jealous rage and Carrie's mother reacts badly to her maturation). A nasty plot is hatched against Carrie - in which the one girl with a (frankly androgynous) boyfriend, Sue, may or may not be conspiring.Carrie reaches the zenith and nadir of her blossoming as a woman in the film's horrible final act. And, I'm afraid, it's horrible by virtue of it's disastrous construction. A mess of over-excited post-production, the great potential of what has gone before is vaporised in a butcher's shop of silly camera tricks, poor editing and abandoned footage. The final third of the film is unequivocal B movie: it also condemns the rest of the movie, since critical suspension (hoping for a payoff to oddities earlier on) comes to an abrupt end too - one realises that the soundtrack to the film is woefully misjudged throughout.This is a shame. Sissy Spacek's magnificent performance as the shy pubescent boxed in by her damaged mother and vindictive peers hardly needs the whole telekinesis business to make its point. Perhaps the film goes the same way as Stephen King's protagonist - a gilded lily. 6/10
A thriller with all the same ingredients as The Russia House. This Le Carré novel is also a chessboard population of politicos, dealers, shysters, thugs and opportunists. These are played out by an A-list duo in Rush and Brosnan and a pooled support cast that are equal parts British, American and Panamanian.The delight in this film is less the tripartite characters played out by Rush's confused, eponymous tailor: rather, we watch a betwixt-Bond(#19 and #20)-Brosnan playing an MI6 officer almost clinically against the type of his infinitely more recognisable counterpart. It's a joy. Brendan Gleeson's lush, broken former freedom fighter and his ex-lieutenant Leonor Varela are a comprehensive study in impotence. The exquisite Catherine McCormack is, precisely, 'open, but tight from lack of use'. Jamie Lee Curtis always strikes me as awkward on screen but she puts herself right out there. And, of course, there's a little chap by the name of Radcliffe...It's funny and occasionally classy but not always on the perfect trajectory - the ending is terribly rushed. Suspend your disbelief and enjoy the characters. 6/10
What looks, in retrospect, like a classic Verhoeven action flick, Total Recall is a punchy, edgy but ultimately mainstream sci-fi adventure. It works out many of the same themes as Blade Runner with it's manufactured realities and the deadly political struggle for control of that altered state. Schwarzenegger plays (Douglas) Quaid (called by his surname throughout the film), a nobody who suspects sinister scheming afoot after a mind-implant short-circuits. This may be an early role for Sharon Stone but she plays Lori as a real viper - it's a strong showing. Ronny Cox is the Dr Evil character (it's rather a pantomime setup when all's said and done) Vilos Cohaagen, a character type to which he's better suited than the buttoned-up righteous types of the Beverley Hills Cop movies. The sfx are notably rudimentary but Verhoeven chucks them about on screen to maximum effect like a virtuoso painter. 6/10
Mike and Trent are about to hit the big time, give or take a few months of working Starbucks to pay the bills. Trent - Vaughan, in a minor breakout role - is a bundle of starry-eyed, testosterone propelled energy working the back (and Front) streets of LA to further his career and gene pool. Favreau's Mike on the other hand is still trying to upright himself from a wiped out relationship and hasn't got the mojo for the perpetual party.The men need each other though - Trent needs Mike to listen to his stream of consciousness about their transferable value (how 'money' they are) and Mike wants someone to be a sounding board for his woe. In an unfortunate, if hackneyed sequence his need becomes so great that he turns to his ex's answering machine until the tape runs out...It's a film which manages to catch something of the energy of Tinseltown's periphery and has a great deal of fun with two friends who have obviously just made it playing two friends who obviously haven't. It's also got fantastic performances from the garishly clothed swing band Big Bad Voodoo Daddy. 5/10
A stirring, episodic tale of friendship and self-discovery on the Western Frontier during the American Civil War. Costner's Dunbar deals with any number of personal issues that come into conflict with his martial position until, in his isolation he is forced to re-assess his priorities and relationships with a nearby Sioux tribe, literally going native.An appealing film for the grand photography alone, Dances With Wolves also sports a significant and strong contribution from native American actors which set a fine precedent for the likes of The Last Of The Mohicans and latterly Apocalypto and The New World. John Barry's score is also a winner. My one caveat is the weak performance of Mary McDonnell whose role is beyond her. 7/10
A belatedly feted film, Andrei Rublyov's rewards come as it settles into its narrative. The eight episodes which comprise the film serve as mythical - biblical - chapters in which the titular artist faces poverty, temptation, terrible violence and crises of confidence and faith.I wasn't overwhelmed by any acting during this film apart from the happy opportunity to see Nikolay Burlyaev again (he plays the eponymous Ivan in Tarkovsky's previous film Ivan's Childhood). This brilliant young man is a sorely needed injection of zealous youth in the final, grandiloquent episode of the film in which he blags a ride claiming to be a bell-maker only to be overcome when he discovers that his talent is for real.The real wealth of the film is the director's grip of it. Great ideas abound, consistently paced, and there are all manner of wonderful shots that constitute this inventiveness. There are vertiginous, Slavic versions of David Leanian sweep and he manages to get around the somewhat rudimentary stunts with careful cutting (and, no doubt, brave individuals!). Vyacheslav Ovchinnikov's original score is excellent.It's not quite as concise as, say, Bergman's the Seventh Seal with both it's allegorical and narrative elements in need of mutual sharpening. Yet it does look beautiful on screen and for all it's suitably monastic perambulating finally crowns itself with the denouement that it surely deserves. 5/10
Entertaining, if entirely predictable. The film relies on perfectly timed (fashionista) gags and the interest that the principal cast bring to their characters.Of course one expects great things from Meryl Streep and she delivers a performance not one notch below best. She could so easily have sleepwalked through her unsmiling, scabrous turn. Instead her Anna Wintour reassembly (it is Wintour, despite marketing disclaimers) is electric and surprisingly human. Stanley Tucci's smooth but repressed lieutenant de couture is the only comparable contribution. Anne Hathaway, though good, can't match it - but then she's supposed to be a naive idealist, so fulfils her role.This carefully layered but pretentionless film reminded me of Wall Street. 20 years on and for this Gordon Gekko de nos jours greed is no longer the mantra. Rather, fame - or at least infamy - is the creed of Miranda's high-achiever in the (truncated) final set piece. A important if modest point well made in an otherwise disposable matinée. 6/10
This odd, admirable but sinister cartoon is the predecessor of the popular but necessarily lightweight cartoon classic The Secret of NIMH. The story is a cycle-of-life fable involving a group of rabbits who abandon their warren after the Cassandra-like warning of the clairvoyant Fiver. All manner of hazards are faced as the group stake out a new home and then a new family, culminating in a truly disturbing sequences as Fiver's various premonitions come upon them as the Holocaust. Difficult stuff, given that much of the story is rendered fairly light-heartedly.Well, it must be said that the cruelty of the film is not all that new, given Disney's fine track record in emotional honesty. The rabbits are given fine voice by a first-class collective of British acting talent, notably John Hurt's Hazel and Michael Graham-Cox's Bigwig. Fiver is a particularly peculiar role and given genuine otherworldliness by Richard Briers, whose most famous voicing to date had been the cuddly fun of Rhubarb and Custard. So, medals for all the players but don't expect a seven-year-old to thank you for showing him a cartoon about bunnies... 5/10
Firewall is a pretty standard thriller, a reworking of the outlaw trope that made The Fugitive such a good vehicle for Harrison Ford.This film is by no means The Fugitive though. The plot careers along shedding loose ends like a dilapidated truck. There are a number of characters inserted for functional reasons whose purpose/backstories go the same way as the runaway subplots: Robert Patrick's just there for a single pursuit sequence through the building and Mary Lynn Rajskub's secretary is a poor Jerry-Maguire-Zellweger-a-like. Matthew Currie Holmes' Bobby is particularly obscure - a reasonable subplot construction gets obliterated by an entirely bizarre sequence in a pentecostal church service.The acting's generally of a low standard anyway. Ford's good but then this is core repertory for him. There are plenty of other irritances although I did find myself more or less entertained to the end. 4/10
Well, it's no less likely than the next extraordinary familial saga, I suppose. Almodóvar's greatest assets are the directness of his story- telling and his cast. His style is economical, no-nonsense narration, bright (Iberian) colours and honesty. No doubt he demands this of his cast as well, who clearly trust him and deliver fine performances assured that their melodramatics will be faithfully translated onto the cinema screen.The brisk pace that Almodóvar sets means that there's plenty of room for subplots and subsidiary characters. It also means that his films, for all their domesticity and suburban design, accumulate a gravitas that one might otherwise associate with the aspirations of consciously epic films. So here we are casually introduced to Penélope Cruz, who looks rather like another part of the ensemble but has a melodramatic trajectory all of her own. Cruz is good, it must be said, although the film is owned by Cecilia Roth's Manuela. I was also deeply grateful for the composure of Marisa Paredes as Huma, a still centre inamongst the hyperactivity of the (entirely amiable) Spanish cast. Affecting 8/10
It's a fairly self-explanatory romcom-cum-Carrey vehicle although, if you've seen It's A Wonderful Life, it makes even more 'sense'. Tom Shadyac's done a nice job of not getting shtuck in the shyrup. Yet it is syrupy - don't even start watching this if all the trappings of the fantasy-to-make-a-point romcom brings you out in hives.Carrey is a nicely modulated version of himself. After all he's always going to pay second fiddle to a) God and b) Morgan Freeman as God. A double whammy. He's also got serious competition from Jennifer Aniston for whom this genre is a walk in the park. There's no drama to speak of though; it's just a usual, transformational piece in which the appeal is in the supernatural ways in which enlightenment is visited upon him. 3/10
To Die For is essentially and acrid-sexy comedy about a scheming but self-deluding blonde, who has just enough grip on the reality of the American dream to represent any one of us. It's a bouncy film played with a John Hughes-like delight by the ensemble cast and filmed with the same perkiness by Gus van Sant.Nicole Kidman is in her pomp here. Beautifully and almost preternaturally sexual, she skitters from ferocious self-interest to glazed ignorance whilst always maintaining a self-possession that is the best weapon of the satirist. This is the Reese Witherspoon character from Legally Blonde spliced with the Glenn Close of Fatal Attraction. The rest of the cast are wonderful, above all Joaquin Phoenix whose kaleidoscopic teenage infatuant is a significant achievement.I like van Sant's multi-media style approach to making the film, which isn't overplayed. It's a stylish production with little twists and coups to raise a wry eyebrow or tug the heartstrings - I particularly enjoyed the slo-mo of Suzanne reacting to the arrival of the press after the murder, as The Star Spangled Banner plays in the background. Classy. 7/10
It's a pleasant film to look at: the palindromic blocking of police raids on first Johnny then Leo's speakeasies; gaping gaps in rooms that close up disproportionately fast when punches start to fly; surreal wide shots for correspondingly staged action.It's a tricky film to follow though. Nothing is made particularly easy for the audience with characters names, intentions and plot twists being sucked into the aesthetic vortex. Style is important but so important that it begins to consume the ebb and flow of the narrative. Making a (period) gangster movie that's off the beaten track is a noble project. The irony is that I felt myself hanging on the few tropes and trappings that they felt they couldn't abandon in order to help orient myself through the first 45 mins.Still, Gabriel Byrne is is a wonderfully noirish, flint-hearted player in this game-of-mirrors episode of ongoing gangster life. Marcia Gay Harden's is an unconventional moll (as intended) and Finney and Turturro both impress by playing types that turn at the drop of a hat. It all needed to be played a little straighter though. 6/10
A meticulously detailed thriller, giving a dramatic account of the near-disaster of Apollo 13's failed moon-landing mission that ultimately ended well. What makes this potential-disaster movie so watchable is that there is no baddie. There's no interpersonal animosity weighing the whole thing down - instead the cast is entirely populated with characters who are in search of the same best outcome. It's a sort of moon-landing achievement in negative: as Ed Harris' mission commander Gene Kranz predicts, 'I believe that this will be our finest hour.'Consequently we are free to wonder at the physical realities of pioneering 60s space travel, hung weightlessly from a taut narrative thread that Ron Howard never slackens. All the performances are fine with a nice variation across the cast. I like the script-direction relationship which delivers all the melodrama you might expect without ever inflating itself. A thoroughly satisfying film (if bad for the fingernails). 7/10
One part Les Amants du Pont Neuf, one part Wings Of Desire this is a quirky, entertaining but - underneath its skin - fairly predictable and sentimental story about the dispossessed soul.Angel-A might or might not be one (an angel, dummy). Jamel Debbouze as Andre is certainly not, being as guilty of being naive as he is of frittering away ill-gotten funds. However, his golden heart saves the rather translucent one that Angel-A has tucked away in whatever spare wrinkle of space there is under Rie Rasmussen's tightly wound mini- dress. It's a parable about many things and, Luc Besson being who he is, it's not shy of talking about the power of infatuation as well as more chaste love. The characters are nicely played and stylishly filmed although their dialogue doesn't necessarily have the panache.This is a film about people and Paris that swings between the unusual and the predictable. if it had been made by anyone with less sense of fun I think I'd have liked it less. 6/10
A solid four star film in 2 dimensions, I have regularly been told that this is a film that becomes something truly special in 3D. This is hardly surprising: Gravity is 'filmed' as if in zero-gravity space, predicated on perpetual movement in all directions. The movement of the camera from within a helmet visor to its outside is the least in a roster of well-integrated, unfussy perspective shifts. It's a classy stylistic tour de force.It's also a very exciting film, which unfolds (almost) in real time. The almost unimaginable scale of the locale, several miles off the surface of the earth, is carefully managed. The excitement comes from the familiar jeopardy given an extra twist, rather than totally novel situations that would be too incredible to process. There is an issue with trying to develop character in this place with limited interaction and next to no time for exposition or development but I think Sandra Bullock manages to maintain a level of intensity that manages to convince.The end of the film is a coda that Kubrick would admire, Malick would envy and neatly ties up a thoroughly enjoyable film. 8/10
A pleasant film, perfect for this holiday season in which I saw it. There's not much to challenge the viewer and though the dramatic twist to the story is treated properly, it's not blown out of proportion.If anything, I rather regret that the conceit of incorporating animated extrapolations of Beatrix Potter's illustrations wasn't carried far enough. These little asides embellish but don't shed light on the thoughts of the author-illustrator. There's a similar, uneven treatment of period issues which create the gentle dramatic undertow of the film - social hierarchy, the place of women, town and country. It's all sacrificed somewhat in order to maintain the breeziness of the story. I felt that this was at once a cop-out and actually rather necessary.One thing that was actually overdone was the intrusion of singing and dancing (the film is unnecessarily bookended and underscored with the saccharine pong of the musical). Naturally, Ewan McgRegor agreed to this, possibly against his better judgement. Maybe its because, after the excellent Down With Love, he felt that this was his lot when in a film opposite Renée Zellweger. I like it when he plays the energetic lovable upstart - it's sagacity he can't do. As Potter, Zellweger herself is nicely headstrong. The supporting cast are solid, especially Emily Watson's borderline lesbian Millie. Katie Melua's credits rendition of the ubiquitous 'teach-to-dance' song is muck. Mixed fortunes then 5/10
A feelgood Frank Capra film with a winsome American everyman. Except this isn't It's A Wonderful Life (also a Depression period fable) but a vehicle for the terrifically poised Gary Cooper, who, nevertheless spends a large proportion of the film threatening to lamp those whom he dislikes. The film is fairly straightforward: corporate greed, opportunistic lawyers and a sensationalist media ruining the good intentions of a good man who's come into a fortune. I disliked that the film also got caught up in the same way that Deeds' broadbrush altruism does - Capra finds himself directing an unwantedly knotty courtroom drama just as the film comes to the boil.Still there's plenty of believable wackiness, what with Deeds being a tuba player and the wonderful turn of Lionel Stander as the thug Cobb, a wiseguy who turns out to be the voice of reason, rather like Chazz Palminteri's Cheech in Woody Allen's Bullets Over Broadway. Cooper doesn't have the range of Jimmy Stewart but he's a camera-friendly leading man. A solid film for a bank holiday. 5/10
I like Ben Stiller, which is a difficult occupation because he has a tendency to disappoint. Not so in this satire-comedy on the fashion industry which gives him and his friends a chance to dress up and muck about safe in the knowledge that almost anything they seem to do on the screen it won't be half as preposterous as what occurs on real catwalks.Central to the self-perpetuating industrial gags is Stiller's 'look', 'Blue Steel', a sort of calling-card pout, which also serves (alongside stylised editing) as a sort of wink at the audience, 'OK, I'm actually being a model now'. Stiller has to deal with real life (temporary retirement after the hilarious demise of a colleague, lampooning the world of Herb Ritts photography in a mineshaft) and then competition on resumption of his modelling with the equally game Owen Wilson. David Bowie has a cameo which is reason enough to go alone. 6/10
Super location footage, a sure grip of post-Greengrass-industry- standard-shaky-cam, highly detailed. It makes for a shifty, eyes-peeled experience. What's lacking is a good enough script to really dovetail the action and give the downtime-ruminating squaddies something arresting to say. I found the intervening episodes at the operational base boring; facile and groping blindly for the poignant. In these situations I'm always reminded of the first sequence from Savingn Private Ryan in which the Giovanni Ribisi character (the medic) has a peroration in a church. It's candlelit and shot with a very slow zoom. My first reaction was defensive since Spielberg was being typically manipulative. However, I convinced myself that I shouldn't write off the content of the script for that and, on listening again discovered pertinence and worth in the scene. Consequently I pay closer attention to such sequences in similar situations - this one shot blanks, I'm afraid.Nonetheless it has its moments. I particularly liked the sequence in the desert where the two principals wait unblinkingly in the sun for hours to confirm a kill. In a film that's often about the adrenaline high (we are stared down with a quote 'war is a drug' at the opening) it's the boredom that strikes me as most representative of it all. 6/10
Quite a lot of nonsense but an ideal film for a night out with friends and a small truck of popcorn. If you've a favourite Hollywood actor, it's possible that they're in this film somewhere - even if you don't have a favourite Hollywood actor there's even an extended cameo from Tom Jones (from "Cardiff, Wales").There's not much plot beyond the title. Most of the film concerns the setting up of and sci-fi blaster-assisted annihilation of all your favourite contemporary stereotypes, although none of it without a certain affection. The best are probably Sarah Jessica Parker's Tefloned-career airhead broadcaster, Pierce Brosnan's slick scientific wonk, Glenn Close's awful First Lady and all the CGI Martians. A super antidote to many a pompous invasion flick. 5/10
The Artist is an entertaining film, made as silent both for the special aesthetic tone it provides and in order to play some good natured games. Moments of sound season the film and tell the story, that the star of silent film falls out of favour at the advent of the talkies, only to be redeemed by the girl who represents his usurper. It's clever, funny and romantic.With one unbeatable principal in Jean Dujardin - Errol Flynn and Gene Kelly in one smile - and a charming lead lady in Bérénice Bejo, it works beautifully as a breezy, uncomplicated romance. In mitigation of his occasional postmodern winks, it's clear that Hazanavicius has imposed some period discipline on the manner in which he has filmed, with moving camera used only sparingly. The black and white stock lovingly investigates the texture of its subject: the topography of the faces of the (often familiar) supporting cast, the grain of costume and set material, and the high contrast of contemporaneous expressionism. Ludovic Bource's score reflects the melodrama consonant with the period without simply ignoring the sound world of today...... which brings us onto the most serious caveat of the film. The Artist is an honest, original film. So why on earth is an extended extract of Vertigo used to underscore its most serious sequence? There is very little direct reference to other films of either the period (either side of 1930) or today, so why one of 1958? There are two possibilities. First, that someone could think of no better sweeping, romantic music for the sequence. Which is rather a snub to the hitherto more than serviceable score from Bource.Second is that the music is designed to reflect thematic ideas in Vertigo that have some pertinence to The Artist. This I cannot buy: the references are generic, of a period not a specific film; the relationship between the characters may involve an imperiled love but the circumstances surrounding them are simply too distinct.For me the inclusion of the music was a little distracting. I saw the film with someone else who did not know the music in question and wasn't affected. The spirit of the film is one of a super evening at the pictures rather than philosophical investigation. As such the film can be enjoyed at face value and this is how I'd heartily recommend it. 7/10
Black holes. They sound pretty spooky, right? You can't see inside one because light can't escape and that, in turn, is because we're not entirely sure whether the laws of physics hold within them. The Event Horizon, on the other hand is that bit where you can just about see the edge of a black hole, its slippery lip. Things are just about normal but could descend into mind-boggling lunacy.Naturally, Paul Andersen can't resist nudging his own film off over the horizon's edge. I think the bit where irony grips is the 'Latin quotation' shot. Not only is it laughable but watching with a more critical eye to the film you have to ask, why Latin? Did someone's imagination/logic interface get suspended along with the laws of physics? There's plenty of money on the screen in cast and effects (although not quite enough of the latter). But it's a daft film and ultimately because it doesn't have anything to do with it's own title. 2/10
A thin moral premise for a action thriller-rant about the state of modern America. Gerard Butler plays an aggrieved widower who seeks out vengeance against (what he sees as) systemic complacency in the judicial system (easily analogous to the banking system). Jamie Foxx is the hot-shot lawyer who partially comes round to his way of thinking if only to stop the injudicious carnage from happening.The whole thing functions as a re-run of Se7en but with more flaccid plot holes. The performances are rather arch, with the exception of living legend Bruce McGill and arguably the finest female actor working in film today, Viola Brown in a cameo as the Mayor. It's extremely, unnecessarily violent in places, over-stylised and it never really adds up. But that's the film it's meant to be, bruising entertainment for a credit crunch audience with the hump. 4/10
The series is beginning to look like a personal challenge to Mike Myers. How many characters can I play in one film? How many parodies and cameos can one squeeze in? This is the territory of Airplane, where gag density is of uppermost important. Luckily, the basic idea (Bond parody married to generic 60s movie anachronism) still has legs. The addition of Beyonce is a welcome refresher (amazingly she's dreadful in the generically comparable Pink Panther remakes) and the new character, Goldmember himself is sufficiently surreal to absorb any franchise-fatigue cynicism. The gangsta-rap parody is my favourite sequence. That that comes at the beginning of the movie shows how my tolerance waned over the rest of the film though. 5/10
It looks like it might be one thing: Tom Cruise (1992, of course) means stirring if stock melodrama; Demi Moore means sexual promise at the very least; Jack Nicholson bellowing a trailer-friendly line about the truth is likely to be heading a parade of grandstanding A-listers.In fact it turns out to be a much broader, thorough courtroom drama. Not whodunnit so much as whydunnit it already has many fully formed traits of Aaron Sorkin's TV dramas. It's not really bad guys against good guys but high-pitched ethical arguments in what appears to be good-v-bad-guy language. It's very watchable for a film with no action sequences or violence. It's even conspicuously chaste - Demi Moore's appeal is perpetually played down throughout and a planned love scene with Cruise was dispensed with. Thank goodness.In addition to the marketing triumvirate (Moore less good than Cruise or Nicholson, but only because they're on top form) there's a long supporting cast with Bacon, a prostheticised Sutherland, Noah Wyle and even Cuba Gooding Junior taking their turns. 7/10
A very good film. Though it arguably falls foul of a very Spielbergian ending, in which the pace of the final third of the film is drawn out, such a protracted denouement is less fatal here than it was for, say, A.I..Spielberg has played a discreet part in mounting this story. With the exception of a disturbing flashback to the enforced enslaving of Serria Leone nationals, his part has been to feed and frame some good character acting. Djimon Hounsou is second to none as the spirited, principal African insurrector Cinque. He runs the gauntlet with the help of Matthew McConaughey's ambitious property lawyer.The rest of cast only serve in proportions of the film; with such a large, fine cast it would be too rich a meal otherwise. The pick is, doubtlessly, a shuffling, oracular Anthony Hopkins as former President John Quincy Adams brilliantly delivering a final peroration. It is this set piece that Spielberg takes his time getting to, but persevere - it's as good a stretch of acting as Hopkins has ever produced.Predictable film-making then from Spielberg. But that means it's entertaining, watchable and touching - a first class movie. 7/10
A boring film, redeemed when viewed as a meticulously prepared beauty pageant. The (long-awaited) appearance of Michelle Yeoh and Zyi Zhang can do nothing to prevent this. All the dramatic blisters are very local and seem to take in none of the wretchedness of the opening in which a rural father sells his daughters to an urbane proto-Geisha dealer. It's as if the brutality of the long-winded Geisha finishing school holds more masochistic appeal to director Rob Marshall than the broader tragedy that allows them to abjure it. I thought the set pieces (the sumo contest, the theatric/dance entertainments) were well-handled, if - like everything else - counterproductively glossy. Hey-ho. 3/10
Roland Emmerich delivers plenty in this (speculative) account of the Elizabethan end of days. If it suffers from anything, it is that it cannot decide quite whether to be the warm comic melodrama of Shakespeare In Love or a nimble political conspiracy thriller in the manner of any number of contemporary American flicks. Essentially, Anonymous is the latter. The robust intrigue of the Elizabethan court reflects this model with ease (as Shekhar Kapur's Elizabeth also demonstrates). Emmerich capably weaves in the seemingly secondary issue of the authorship question to elevate the potency of the plays' cultural impact. Though the film's intent is bounded in a formal 'wooden O' of its own (the conceit of Derek Jacobi presenting the film as if it were a staged Broadway production) it is less about Shakespeare and who he might have been than about the machinations of the court.The film has some super reconstructions of the plays staged at The Globe theatre and CGI extrapolations of the Thames. The acting is above average. Vanessa Redgrave is a spirited, wild Queen whilst Rhys Ifans as Oxford and David Thewlis as Cecil (Snr) are superbly restrained, the real power struggle. I found the film long: the shift between the politics and the plays cooled the latter rather than firing the former. For all that John Orloff's screenplay is consistent it is surely an insuperable task to combine a modern vernacular for the bulk of the film alongside the iambs of the verse to which homage is being paid beside it. An admirable, heartfelt sprawl 6/10
An often exhilarating but undeniably curdling second sequel. The good things. Matt Damon. Greengrass' verité camera (less hectic than before). The action sequences. Waterloo station (and the meticulously sequential way in which it's used - no stepping onto platform 3 and appearing on platform 19 in the next shot for photogenic expediency. It's believable).The less good? I was surprised at David Strathairn. This installment's principal baddie, he doesn't have the extra gear that made Brian Cox so fearsome; he's just a shifty neurotic. I also thought Joan Allen was marginalised. Julia Stiles does meet the challenge of her deepening role a little more but there's a drop-off elsewhere; with the possible exception of Joey Ansah's Desh, there's no Clive Owen/Karl Urban figure to flesh out the counter-assassin. It's becoming something of a rent-a-henchman role.I think I see the problem. For all that the film is carefully (and convincingly) dovetailed with the final scene of the previous film there is now a pressure to create the possibility of further story lines and relationships in the future. A franchise-fertilising looseness has crept in. The first thing to go is the script... and with aimless, truncated writing come less interesting roles. And in the film itself, where inscrutable pauses (also in the camera-work) had created the rhythm and the portence of the film, now they have become ambiguity to be exploited in future. Chuck in evermore conspicuous product placement and a disappointingly average turn from the generally awesome Paddy Considine and I have to hand it to Greengrass/Damon that I was well entertained for its span. I'm less interested in the next one now though. 6/10
A film to get better with a age, I suspect. There's not enough drama to fire the fine words, no enough peril to highlight what's to be lost. There is a lot of talking (with a strong cast of Hollywood stalwarts wearing the finest collection of beards since Cecil B de Mille filmed Egypt). The talking is done well enough but within the parameters of government. Though it's not technical it is dry and discombobulating in its emphasis. The only time I was truly moved was when Daniel Day-Lewis quoted Hamlet (and those who know a little of Day-Lewis will recognise that allusions to Hamlet are certainly perilous in some measure to this actor).Daniel Day-Lewis is all we expect, managing to keep a lid on his totemic sixth gear as he summons a titular character of great warmth and humanity. Around him are the world-weary Tommy Lee-Jones, a Yes, Minister-type Secretary of State in David Strathairn and a lovely trio of proto-lobbyists, including a super turn from James Spader. It's filmed in an approximation to sepia and no doubt with as much attention to design as to historical accuracy. The drama? Maybe they couldn't afford that. 5/10
A super film, a glorious romantic epic counterpart to Minghella's The English Patient. If I have one caveat to that it's that the acting isn't as sharp - the humour often comes across as comic set-pieces. It is also quite long, although I can't see how it can be made much shorter.I was particularly won over by the acting of Jude Law, these days a famous all-purpose target of the British press (largely because of a colourful private life). His performance has terrific weight and masculinity dragging all else with it. The film is essentially a road movie and with so many other conspicuous Hollywood luminaries popping up along the way it could so easily disintegrate into a string of sketches but for his focus. Whilst Zellweger's Oscar is fair she by no means outshone Kidman's performance. There is also excellent support from Ray Winstone (!) and Kathy Baker's rich and understated Sally Swanger. Perhaps not Jack Black though, I'm afraid.No qualification for Minghella though - nor his DoP John Seale who conjures a pre-lapsarian Eden for Cold Mountain. And goodness knows how long was taken over the hallucinogenically beautiful shot of Ada's iced-cornflower eyes when Inman finally returns. Much enjoyed. 8/10
Let's be fairly clear here. This is a good film which unashamedly aims to lift the spirits at Christmas in the manner of Dickens' A Christmas Carol. It is a rather unconventional film though. The story is of a man whose fortunes force him to consider the possibility of doing away with himself, until salvation comes in the form of an angel who shows him his self-worth. Yet Capra spends more than half the two-hour running time simply showing us this life - and a wonderful one it certainly is.The point here is that Capra has clearly set out to make the film that so many have come to love, even if they don't remember it particularly well... there's really no need for the third act, as Clarence drags Jimmy Stewart's George Bailey around a sour, alternative world in which he hasn't featured. Capra is determined to hammer the point home though.He also takes the opportunity to leaven even this most desperate sequence with the easy humour than runs through the whole film. It's a Wonderful Life is a hectic film that careers past with episodes, exchanges and asides that builds up a mountain of character rather like the mountain of cash that crowns the denouement. Jimmy Stewart is the progenitor of all this, driving the pace of the film with his mercurial repartee and Michael J Fox-like perpetual motion acting. All the other parts, well-taken in this film, may be said to be reflected glory as this must be Stewart's defining film - he is the hero by virtue of his recurring averageness and the role sits with him very well.An unusual movie then, familiar and lovable both despite and by itself - rather like having the relatives round at Christmas, in fact! 8/10
A film that is at once quite exhilarating and exasperating. As a fast-talking, wise-cracking buddy-cum-action thriller it's difficult to beat. A car chase/shootout that can be compared to The Matrix Reloaded + Heat (and is arguably shot and cut together better than either) is an asset, however it's shoehorned into the plot.Alas, we then have to suffer a witless sequence such as Marcus (Martin Lawrence) trying to put some poor teenager off dating his daughter (there's a whole Lethal Weapon-type family man subplot going on). Quite apart from a violent casting error in "Dennis Greene" as the effortlessly gormless teenager ambushed on the doorstep by Lawrence we also see Mike (Will Smith) waving a gun in the kid's face whilst retching up the sort of spiel he should be saving for the small proportion of bad guys he's not killing outright elsewhere in the film. It's not only a comedy - it's an adult comedy and often rather black-humoured - but it needn't be a lazy one as well.Still, the film's moments of music-video-style strobic-edited action makes a great vehicle for the two men at its centre. Gabrielle Union is 2-d but satisfactory, Bay simply shooting her as skirt - and in the panto parts baddie Jordi Mollà and cop boss Joe Pantoliano leave no undamaged corner of the set unchewed. 4/10
Very much of its time, but not dated. It fetters an anger but manages considerable control; the famous denouement is Orwellian, anarchic in content but not in temperament. It's a very funny film, even at its most grotesque.Of course Lindsay Anderson's wonderfully measured use of Surrealism also softens the fury, dissipating the growing frustrations of the disenfranchised public schoolboys into allegory. It's tricky to get one's head around this being Malcolm McDowell's first screen role. He's brilliant, charismatic and seems to know exactly what he's doing in such a complicated role. Naturally, he is subordinating himself to his auteur's whim but it reflects well on both that you can barely tell.The fairy dust of the piece is, for me, the use of the Missa Luba, the Congolese setting of the Latin Mass. At once martial and exotic it provides a penumbra of context that extends the ideas in the film beyond the stifling context of the petrifying public school in which it's set. Imperfect but compelling. 6.5/10
An astonishingly bad film. A vehicle for a (barely) leather-clad Halle Berry, that fails to deliver even that. It's silly, hyper-stylised sequences fail to tick any boxes marked 'ironic', 'dramatic' or even 'sexy': Berry's costume looks like the moths got to it first; her mask looks like a British police helmet squashed by a tractor wheel. The cat tropes are delivered with the repetitiousness of communist state sloganeering. The 'catmother' Ophelia is the sort of over-earnest, deadpan mystic that gives Californians a bad image. Worst of many a rough montage are the CGI inserts which sap the thing of any grace, interest or credibility. It's rubbish.I managed most of it, encouraged by Berry's initially amusing ditsy character and the ever-engaging screen presence of Sharon Stone (the latter being beautifully costumed and made up, a rare virtue). It is, however, dross: why else would the director use a pseudonym but through shame? 1/10
You'd be forgiven for thinking it's a romcom, but it's not a comedy at heart. It's a fairly comprehensive dissection of the thrill and treachery of urbane relationships, as lengthy as it's soul-mate Something's Gotta Give but without the latter's full comic and dramatic amplitude - it's a quieter film. The serious sibling of The Break Up, sprinkled (without wishful thinking) with the fairy dust of Annie Hall.I think it's underplayed actually. I think that the idea is for it to be easy-going: Uma Thurman seems coy with her broader comic brush and there's not really enough to really make it a bittersweet operatic lovestory. Bryan Greenberg is excellent as her toy-boy - I couldn't make up my mind whether the pitch perfect cracks issuing from their age difference are acting or not - and Meryl Streep as ever-watchable as the slow-thawing doppelmutter. A super, if drawn-out date movie. 6/10
It is a terrific feature of this film, largely of the seasoned British members of the cast - Fiennes, Redgrave, Cox, even Jimmy Nesbitt - that irrespective of the language being used or the particular caprices of Fiennes direction one simply doesn't want to take one's eyes off the screen. The acting from those named is of such high, unstinting quality that it justifies the project. Now additionally, of course, there are moments when the force of the poetry combines with acting choices (and directorial choices) and the film almost becomes real. I am of the opinion that the celebrated newsreader Jon Snow's role in this film is more than well-taken, not a cameo but executed in the spirit and technique of the rest of the cast.However, this consistency isn't uniform. I felt that Fiennes began to neglect the homogeneity of the tone as the play got more involved. The scene in which Redgrave, as Coriolanus' mother, pleads for the city is out of step, despite Redgrave making a case for some of the finest screen acting recorded by a camera since, well, whenever.The language remains a problem. The (misnomer alert) baroque nature of the vocabulary, sentence construction and turn of phrase is really alien, despite it being abundantly clear that the cast have worked on it to the point of fluency in another language. I choose to celebrate this and work with it. That's not to say that I could always understand it or place it in the context of a contemporary political film. 5/10
A poor sequel (to a pretty lightweight predecessor). It's a narrative collection of sketch-style moments.Robert de Niro is the most watchable. Even in this comic-caper fare he manages to be genuinely menacing. However, one man recycling old tropes whilst having a ball as the grandstanding 'villain' does not a movie make.Billy Crystal plays himself. Lisa Kudrow plays a parody of his put upon wife from the first film. This is as nothing to the complete lack of a story. All we have to go on is a rough ultimatum drawn up by the FBI about how long de Niro's mafia boss must stay under Crystal's shrink-roof. It doesn't deal - like the first - with whether a leopard can change its spots. It's Hollywood big guns on a slow morning. 3/10
I was really enjoying this re-working of the famous 80s telly show until the final act. Suspension of disbelief is not some sort of endless elastic - the concluding Michael Bayisms of people jumping in and out of a dockside apocalypse were several steps too far.However, there's plenty to like. Despite a mixed cast, the jokes come over very well. Bradley Cooper is excellent as Face with an unlikely but never impossible way with the opposite sex. Mr T was never going to be bettered (by 'Rampage' Jackson) but Liam Neeson stands comparison with Gregory Peck. Interestingly, Sharlto Copley's Murdoch is the most fun but I still stand by my misgivings from District 9; acting can't be learned on the hoof.I was disappointed not to hear the original theme tune more often but the spirit of the TV show is intact. The updating works well too both in content (the crime they didn't commit happens in Baghdad) and in style (it can be as gripping as Bourne). 5/10
A nicely put-together film which provides some of the genuine shocks one expects of a supernatural horror-thriller. I tend to avoid the genre but I was reeled in with the whole shoestring budget, Blair-Witch-for-the- noughties story. I found myself gripped most of the time if not ever genuinely terrified.My reservation is that the film doesn't seep down into the psychological strata that would make it so much more profoundly troubling. I had forgotten my disturbance before I'd even left the auditorium. The backstory exists purely in order to facilitate the narrative, like phenomenal stepping-stones inbetween each aggregation of the noumenal activity. The horror is all surface, with no drama built into the story on the page. I wonder whether or not this is a built-in marketing strategy; embedding out loose-ended plot strands which can then take on a life of their own in discursive forums across the internet.The two actors are very good - Oren Peli's script is the weakest link in his otherwise assured grip on the project (which he also directed and edited) but they deliver it with all the naturalism suggested by the aesthetic. Deserves the attention if not the plaudits. 5/10
One of the first things that Robert Downey Jr says as Tony Stark in this sequel to the first, popular Ironman film, is "I am Iron Man. The suit and I are one." Well, that's certainly true of the actor and character as well - the film struts, shimmies and schmoozes along to Downey Jr's own rock-n-roll sensibility and that's what I enjoyed most about this, just as I enjoyed it about the first one as well. Some perceptive casting has offset his Bruce Wayning with another motormouth in Sam Rockwell's Justin Hammer, and Mickey Rourke who manages to trump everyone with his anarcho-cool Russian.Other characters in a well-populated A-list roster can't compete: Don Cheadle's hamstrung as a straight guy, Scarlett Johansson patronised by simply being paraded. Gwyneth Paltrow has more gravitas but only as she is a trope for Tony Stark's more earnest depths. The SFX are OK, although there's inevitably a bliltzkrieg of son et lumière (to mix figures of speech internationally) where action is often meant to be. John Debney's music is similarly functional, when one can hear it at all. I had fun but because Robert Downey Jr was still running the show. Just. 4/10
The twin billing of the late Bernie Mac and Ashton Kutcher is rather appealing and the two comic-gifted actors do fairly well. I always think its the mark of a good actor to pull off the consistent lurching that is the hallmark of sentimental romcom. The two of them negotiate the script well.The problem is that, like so many other examples of the genre, the film demands a statutory smattering of extra set pieces: a dreadful go-kart race and a ridiculous men-share-the-bed running gag let this one down. There's also an unsavoury 'black jokes' sequence which I simply didn't need.When I wasn't cowering/out making the tea in embarrassment I enjoyed it as it was intended. 4/10
This disappointing fourth feature from Copolla transposes the existential desert of the itinerant Hollywood from neon Tokyo to parched LA. Again, it's a love story, this time between father and daughter, without the 'figure' qualifier. As a pathetic (i.e. with pathos) tale of Being and Nothingness manifest it misses its mark. Maybe Copolla has read Heidegger. Unfortunately she doesn't seem to be able to pull her (tonally, well-pitched) collage together in order to made her take on the philosophy comprehensive.Elle Fanning? Super, as if Dakota cast no shadow. Stephen Dorff is well cast in this too. He reminds me of Ethan Hawke - indeed he attempts a clueless rendition of Bach's Goldberg Variations at the same point as in Linklater/Hawke's Before Sunrise, i.e. on the downslope from the highpoint of the lovestory. If only Copolla had borrowed more focused ideas such as these there would have been more gravity or even point to her film. There's charm here but it's too loose. 5/10
Probably the best Alistair MacLean adaptation, paving the way ahead for Where Eagles Dare. It's a straightforward wartime mission, to disable a hitherto impregnable German gunning position on a Greek island. It's a great ensemble feature for the whole troupe, particularly memorable for the Mediterranean ferocity of James Darren and, above all, Anthony Quinn. Gregory Peck and David Niven are the Anglo-American double act, managing their contribution to the action capably despite their respective ages. The women are well-interpolated into the story and Irene Papas gives a bold performance as the red-blooded Maria. The score is also a celebrated character, contributed by It's A Wonderful Life composer Dimitri Tiomkin. 7/10
I've definitely reached that sad day that comes to us all - I hope - where I switch off as the action/chase bit starts. That means I spent a good third of this second Iron Man sequel examining my fingernails. It's not as alienating as the splashing counterpart sequences in Transformers, although this is a reasonable comparison. That said, the team is sensible to have drawn a thick line at the end of the film as the whole operation had begun to slip below the B movie waterline.What distinguishes the rest of the film is the playing of the drama unusually close to the knowing, fourth wall of self-regard. Robert Downey Jr's great contribution to the four films he has made in the suit has been the ability to side with the postmodernists and fanboys in the audience without undermining the show. In addition we get Gwyneth Paltrow in action and Guy Pearce upstaging everybody, which is fine by me. 5.5/10
An excellent, modern American mobster series. Rather than an historical or operatic look at the Cosa Nostra phenomenon, this mafia drama is played in tandem with the suburban lives of the New Jersey families involved. High quality plotting and scripting - not to mention the early-played ace of the chief protagonist undertaking therapy - make this conflagration of conceits a real winner. The irrationalities and violence of the criminal life and the strangely volatile mix of banality and pressure of modern living sit opposite each other as commentary, metaphor and rationale. It's superbly constructed.Playing all this out is a good, consistent cast. James Gandolfini's eponymous boss Tony is (necessarily, but nonetheless) the standout characterisation, familiar and yet often surprising. Other stalwarts from the cast include Michael Imperioli as Tony's high-strung 'nephew' Christopher, his fiancé Adriana (Drea de Matteo) and his embarrassing but not conniving sister Janice (Aida Turturro).But for the best pure acting of the series one must follow Edie Falco, who plays Tony's wife. She plays out on the surface the full amplitude of passions, sorrows and barely sufferable moral tensions of the show. This is the great strength of the series. It is able to investigate the contradictions and absurdities inherent both in contemporary American life and in the age old tradition of (immigrant) Italian society. At the same time as it demands scrutiny and even compassion there is never a sense of genuine moral equivocation. The greatest episodes are those in which Falco's Carmella goes to moral authorities, desperate but unbowing, in search of truth and impossible choices.For all the cinematic production and effective use of dream-sequence and fantasy, David Chase's series is quite brutal in the action, images, language and raw ideas that get to screen. However these ideas, their prosecutors and the world that they continually construct and destroy are always treated with respect. 8.5/10
A highly admirable film, but difficult to love. Malick's insistence on shooting outside but prior to sunrise (and after sunfall) is a sentiment-neutral premonitor of the tragedy of the film - and of the war, whose imminence clouds the edges of the Heavenly vista. This is important. Just as the prairie narrative of the film is always happening at a remove from this other, distant catastrophe, so the film is actually the story of the seemingly innocuous co-star Linda (Linda Manz), told in a time-and-trauma anaesthetised retrospect.Manz is as good as any other actor in the piece, beautiful and alert but semi-feral, like Spacek and Sheen in Badlands. Richard Gere and Brooke Adams, the figurative protagonists, are super too. Still headstrong with youth they have that moral gravity that their Badlands cousins do not and pin the superficial narrative down. Sam Shepard also does well, feverish when cuckolded.Music plays an important role in Malick's films and I enjoyed the score by Morricone, integrating Saint-Saens' semi-opaque Aquarium music from The Carnival of the Animals with his own to good effect. There are a great number of animals in this film, hunting, working, dying and ravaging and simply existing. Their naturalism reflects that of the cast whose moral tensions often go the way of the wheat chaff, casually dispersed on the breeze.That's the strength of this film and what sets it apart from Badlands. Whereas the morally illiterate teenagers of the latter pinball from situation to situation, in Days of Heaven have more purpose - but only just. Their's is not a essay in the pubescent groping through a desert (moral and visual). It's a story of trying to make good the American way and rising above its attendant pitfalls. Linda's recollection is part of this: the shock is that Malick leaves us with an open-ended existential document which casts no judgement and provides no cadence. 8/10
An alternative title - The Three Women. That's the two lovers of the title plus the wonderfully understated role of Leonard's mother. Isabella Rosselini is a minor miracle playing her with the optimum mix of unfettered neurosis, love and ahead-of-the-curve understanding that immediately reconfigures the worth of the naive love that Leonard and the other two women have for one another.If James Gray were able to work this in more, i.e. without the regulation marginalising of the role to simply offset the swing-and-roundabout romances, it might have been a fascinating film. Instead it ends up as a rather mono-dimensional record of Leonard's hapless management of an improbably fortuitous glut of attention and where that fits on his personal oy-vey-line of woe. The film opens with an abject suicide attempt, for goodness' sake; it is too much to overcome in the rest of a very sombre 100 mins. 3/10
A classic piece of Ron Howard film-making. Thorough, competent, uncontroversial with none of the obvious drama of the episode being obscured or left unaccounted for. Of course his film is an adaptation of a successful stage play using the same two principals so a lot of the internal dynamism is prepped for him. I like the film a lot though, with its preference for close-up and enclosed space mirroring the cubicle-sized environs of the TV interviews which are at its centre.The film does two things to try and extrapolate the drama from the famous final interview (in which Frost 'extracted' contrition from Nixon). The first is to give a sense of the risks being taken by Frost (financial) and by his production team (professional). These are given attention but only developed in a series of 'flashforwards' which are fictitious and I would have preferred to see more of that drama in the film proper.The other is a key scene in which Nixon speaks informally, late at night to Frost on the phone. Though a good scene for the excellent Frank Langella, this provides Michael Sheen, who is also very good, with no material of his own - and as such it is representative of his opaque character throughout the film.Nonetheless I was entertained, informed and laughed a fair bit too. 7/10
A wonderful debut feature from Richard Ayoade with two sensational principal performances out of nowhere making it happen. I loved the way this film wore itself lightly, with a surface wit and nouvelle-vague jump-cut skip to its step. At the same time deep - Submarine deep? - things are stirring, not least in the uncompromising but nicely pitched score by Andrew Hewitt.Submarine is a film that borrows the spirit but not the meat of ideas from other films. Woody Allen's diaphanous urban romances are clearly a touchstone (Oliver has a sketch of Allen above his bed). Ayoade's sensibility extends the comedy without making the reprisal bittersweetness too heavy. Everything is similarly tempered, compassionate. I laughed at characters (Paddy Considine's new age numpty being the obvious target) but never with the scowl that attends Mike Leigh's sightline.Craig Roberts and Yasmin Paige have a decade of acting work behind them but I've never heard of them before. There's no excuse to be had any longer. Both of them are simply outstanding. Paige manages to be that ideal, semi-opaque teenage girl twisting between knowing the secrets of the world and a contradictory fragility. Roberts - the prima inter pares, it's his story - pulls off the dead-pan without simply being dead look (and also has a wonderful, heart-rending running style). Between them they manage a wonderful updating of the parochial romance of the movies of Bill Forsyth, like Local Hero and, of course, Gregory's Girl.It's not without its shortcomings. It's a rather tightly wound film in places, with meaning in frames where perhaps it would benefit from being allowed to breathe. However it really is a four-star debut and deserves a warm reception. 7.5/10
A deeply frustrating film. The surface of the film seethes with sexual possibility; the Iberian locations, inflections of accent and lose- clothing climate contribute to this as well. All is wasted though with an interminable, obstructive and vaguely patronising voice-over whose pretensions at narrative or explanation are not followed through by the director. There is no discernible outcome for the principals or we aren't given anything which can constitute the end of a dramatic argument, such as there has been one. In short, it's a half-baked mess, doubly irritating for being a waste of its premium ingredients.Of those principals, Scarlett Johansson misfires most comprehensively. This film represents clear evidence of diminishing returns for Allen's personal investment in her (I don't think her mishandled character is really her fault though). However, the other three actors are quite marvellous, Bardem a compelling, honest rake and Cruz as his inflammable muse...... as for Rebecca Hall - well, all the hype from the 2008 Cannes Festival is right on the money. A demanding puzzle emerges - what was Cruz doing getting Best Supporting Actress in this film when Hall's role is larger, more important and better acted? A pertinent question but a churlish one, really.I so wanted to love this film but, perversely, Woody Allen wouldn't let me. 6/10
Perfectly good. A cross-cloning of 2001: A Space Odyssey, Terminator 3, 1984, Enemy of the State etc., etc. I always find Shia LeBeouf absorbing and committed, although he doesn't have much of an opportunity to be funny in this film, his strong suit. Michelle Monaghan turns out to be an underused Hollywood asset - she was also good and I kept thinking she was the currently high-profile Emma Stone (The Rocker, The House Bunny). Rosario Dawson has fewer dimensions to her character to flesh out and Billy Bob Thornton operates at about 80%.If you were to take a check list into the auditorium then you'd end up with a completed sheet: car chases that aren't so much caught on camera as they are the camera; ingenious stunts so eccentric they rely on first class CGI; the truth concealed in a maze of twists that result in all manner of loose ends and laughable decisions; product placement. There are worse ways to spend an afternoon in the fleapit. 5/10
The first 25 minutes or so of this flick are laughably clunky; awkward dialogue in hasty, abject delivery. An early taste of the action incorporates Holly Valance playing a pop star... you get the idea.When the story kicks in (i.e. Neeson goes after his daughter, kidnapped by a prostitution ring) it's beautifully straightforward. He bullies, beats and kills people to find and rescue her. It's filmed in proto-Bourne bobble-cam and the fighting is well-choreographed (and well-acted by Neeson). There's a fair bit of nonsense but it all goes by in a alchemical blur of testosterone and outrage at the the abuse meted out to the abducted women. Eventually a great movie to fill a dull midweek evening. 5/10
Ostensibly, a simple picture about the unmasking of a back-street abortionist in post-war London. This part of the project is accomplished straightforwardly enough. What distinguishes this film of Mike Leigh's though is threefold.Firstly it's a fascinating concoction of high, sustained emotion and moral neutrality. Throughout there is a great sense of warmth and sympathy - and characters have varying degrees of appeal - but at the film's close it is impossible to judge on which side of the 'pro-life' argument Leigh has settled.Secondly, and closely allied to the first, is the meticulously observed sense of period. Vera Drake is at the centre of a loving working-class family, weaned on the pragmatism and austerity of wartime; adept at capitalising on meagre joys and dealing with a disproportionately distressing recent past. Through the character of Vera Drake, this juxtaposition shadows the bittersweet gift of pregnancy with its life - joy and bleached by impossibility. It's in the bizarre, lowly domesticity that characters share great moments of love and loss that the film has traction - Vera rushes around, 'as good as gold', breaking the law and administering foeticide. Now, neither of these two characteristics of the film would have any interest without the high quality of the acting, given that they are so opposite. The entire cast are quite brilliant and crowned with a (surely once-in-a-lifetime) titular characterisation by Imelda Staunton. I have seen Million Dollar Baby, for which Hilary Swank snapped up a second Oscar: a deserving candidate for a serious award but not on the same planet as this extraordinary, personally transubstantive rendition of opaque, postwar feminine complexity. The close, single-take shot of Vera being confronted by the police is its central miracle: watch the light literally dying in Staunton's eyes. 8/10
Another Jekyll and Hyde Carreymobile, although it also finds room to bump the ascendant Renée Zellweger up to co-star. This is a big gamble of a flick, violent even outside the accepted parameters of the slapstick Carrey trades in. One might also notice that it comes shotgun with Zellweger's Nurse Betty, another nervous comedy concerning pathologies and their darker sides.I admire all this (this is a fairly thoughtful Farrelly brothers movie rather than one of the later, lazy, gross-out offense-as-humour effort). I like Carrey very much and I think Zellweger once again finds a sympathetic, marginalised femininity that only indie stars like Chritina Ricci, Thora Birch or latterly Maggie Gyllenhaal have essayed. The film is rough though and the humour doesn't mitigate against the dark stuff - it's not that subtle a satire - but rather plugs in to the peripheral needling of the Richard Prior and Chris Rock stand-up gurgling away in the background. 4/10
I enjoyed this Guy Ritchie film, as that is what it is, above all else. This is not the steel-eyed eccentric of British television adaptations of Conan Doyle but a rather more hands-on, rock-n-roll sleuth. Robert Downey Junior is well-cast for this approach (with a solid English accent to boot) and the re-working is completed with a more knowing, athletic Watson in Jude Law. Indeed Holmes himself describes their relationship (by proxy) as brotherly.You can say what you like about Guy Ritchie, but his films are consistent. They're all quickly paced as well, acquiring their zip in the editing. As this is a period piece (notably well-rendered by the production designer Sarah Greenwood, and with unusually convincing CGI) there's little room for modern vernacular to add to the styling of the film and I feel that Ritchie's efforts to work the dialogue is often counterproductive - it gets a bit obscured.Above all, this is another which exhibits a detailed appreciation of genuine British macho, in same way that Michael Mann understands American masculinity (he also achieves obscured dialogue, by-the-by). It's got wit without frivolity and a punchy temperament. Ritchie has gone looking for Holmes in the same way that Daniel Craig's directors have gone looking for Bond. The results are worthwhile. 6/10
A beautifully constructed film, exquisitely shot. I wish I'd seen this in a theatre rather than on DVD. The acting has peaks (Liam Neeson, Eva Green, the Saladin of Ghassan Massoud) and troughs (Marton Csokas's Guy de Lusignan and Edward Norton as the reedy King of Jerusalem). Orlando Bloom is good but unconvincing as a leader of men. It's generally a director's picture anyway.This film is directly comparable with a number of other battle set-piece epics, not least Scott's own Gladiator. Kingdom of Heaven compares favourably with this picture, not least as there's a sparing, decorous use of CGI.The problems with this film, such as there are, are to do with its pitch. A big studio number, it has to cater for a broad cross section of audience. Whilst there's obviously a reasonably sophisticated script trying to fight its way out it's subsumed in broad-brush themes and peace-propagandist statements. Most of these are worthy and moral but it makes for lukewarm drama. 6/10
All the powerful initial interest to District 9 appears in the pre-title sequence. The film bears worthy comparison with The Fly, ET and any number of computer games. Yet I couldn't help feeling restless.The body of the film makes intriguing assumptions about the twenty years that the aliens have been quarantined in the eponymous slum in Johannesburg. Most humans feel comfortable co-existing with the overbearing, filthy, shellfish-like creatures - some speak their language. How has such a proximity come about? Where is the diplomatic-political engagement with the aliens... and given that it doesn't seem to exist, why not? It soon seems that these little ideas squirming tantalisingly in the background are no more that devices to allow the action-romp to function.It's a triumph of contemporary CGI though, well-designed, detailed and convincing. I found Sharlto Copley rather irritating as Wikus; learning that his dialogue is almost completely improvised doesn't dilute that opinion for me (with mandatory shaky-cam used to film the action, having Copley's neurotic stream-of-consciousness on top is over-egging the cat food, so to speak). Jason Cope is more measured as 'Christopher'.It's not at all bad but, rather like the sequels to the first Matrix film, disappoints by pandering to an audience different from that which it attracts to begin with. Would love to see the short. 5/10
In mitigation, the action is up to scratch and the photography is great: lush, varied and integrated into the rather moody, romantic pretensions of the film. The location scout deserves an Oscar and Marc Foster really works up some son et lumière poetry with what he's given - I was pulled from my torpor by a daring and unlikely sequence incorporating choice excerpts of Tosca.Daniel Craig is a great action figure but the 007 that made it into the 21st century is now a distant memory. Quantum of Solace is a revenge thriller, identifiable as a Bond film only through the names of the protagonist and his boss and one or two homage shots: Olga Kurylenko's Camille is a tepid reworking of For Your Eyes Only's Carole Bouquet; Gemma Arteton's Shirley Eaton moment is her best on screen - her performance (and wardrobe) are disastrous.The action's fine but as a thriller it's blank. There are too many anonymous bodies delivering a flat script where every other line's a contrivance. Jeffrey Wright snarls in the absence of something to actually say - bizarrely, Tim Pigott-Smith shines in a cameo as the foreign secretary because what he says is comparatively interesting.The film looks and feels modern in content and execution. What Barbara Broccoli et al must now decide is how they can reintroduce some sort of (British?) idiosyncrasy back into this film to set it apart, and delight the audience rather than simply feeding them. 4/10
A warm film in the same mould as Eternal Sunshine Of The Spotless Mind, Ruby Sparks is a metaphysically impossible story of the lengths to which love drives us and the extremes that we can overcome if that love is true. The manifest literary creation is not a new idea in film, so it is up to Jonathan Dayton and his cast to make it fresh and give it its own unique characteristic. Luckily, one of the protagonists, Zoe Kazan, is also the screenwriter, and is excellent opposite Paul Dano's reliably offbeat inhibited writer (imagine a twenty-something Douglas Hodge). Despite one or two un-ironed moments (Kazan is obvious terribly proud at being able to speak French) and a slightly under-developed pair of sub-plots (the brother's relationship and the shrink) this is a commendably uncommon romcom for a date. 7/10
Does everything you'd expect really - including spending plenty of cash to do everything properly and thus lay real claim to being affiliated to Richard Donner's Superman. Interestingly, as Helen Slater's Supergirl has the same powers as her cousin she can afford to be more 'girly' than other female superheroes (such as Linda Carter's Wonder Woman). The sequence in which she discovers her superpowers is a delight and as applicable to the aspirations of the audience as the overt sense of duty and ethics brought to Superman by Reeve.Slater is a latter day Buffy though with that instant charm and narrow acting range. Faye Dunaway is also a pantomime villain but I was always a great fan of O'Toole in this film; avuncular, concerned but not panicked, rather like John Wood's Falken in War Games. Ultimately, Superman-lite. 5/10
The American is a brooding film. It's quiet and reserved. Watching it is to play the same waiting game as the American/Clooney himself, though he seems not to have much more idea of what he's waiting for than we do. I was reminded of Jim Jarmusch's The Limits of Control from last year. A lone hit-man waits in various south western European village squares, drinking coffee and taking instructions and packages from odd people who seem to need someone to talk to. Isaach De Bankolé's taciturn hit-man maintains a wary professionalism, even during sex. Clooney's hit-man is a softer pro, wary but vulnerable. Jarmusch's De Bankolé's refuses to speak Spanish, but in order to keep a distance. Clooney stumbles with his Italian, capitulating to others who speak in American wanting only to communicate. He is lonely, in an even more advanced state of isolation than the self-sabotaging executive in Jason Reitman's brilliant Up In The Air (also from last year).Anton Corbijn's visual method seems well-fitted to this dessicated observation. He composes shots rather well: the tiny car against great landscapes, the lone American with empty seats or streets in frame. I also like the sound design, there are gunshots but equally as startling are other common sounds, doors, a moped backfiring that fuel a sense of paranoia but emphasise the peripheral sense of vacancy.Through this existential desert the American tentatively tries to tend to his human needs. This is the trajectory of the film, the drama of a life given meaning and direction - and the reason Corbijn's film doesn't quite work. Clooney's performance is too internalised. Nothing aggregates. The crack of vulnerability we see at the beginning closes up almost immediately. It doesn't develop. The cleverly re-appropriated Western-style final stand-off doesn't mean anything as a result, neither does the denouement. This is confirmed by Corbijn's use of Paolo Bonacelli's priest. Not only does he serve merely to emphasise the American's moral opacity Bonacelli turns out to be a mediocre actor, whose principal use to Corbijn is as a further, facial landscape. Corbijn doesn't help himself further with some gross post-production tinkering, gilding the lily of a perfectly evocative grove composition with the addition of a computer generated butterfly to overstate a point. As in other, better films (Ronin and The White Ribbon), this moment distracts more than it contributes and patronises the audience.The experience of watching the American shortly after Control has shown that Corbijn does have a good natural idea of consistently paced, image- based storytelling. I admire the ambitions of the project, investigating a modern existentialism via a cool transatlantic cinematic vernacular. Better films than this are sure to come. 6/10
It seems almost miraculous that this movie manages to be coherent, let alone the celebrated success it has become. Christopher Reeve was virtually untried; Marlon Brando's fee dwarfed the GDP of several African countries but he still didn't bother to learn his words; and the sfx were all pretty rudimentary.It is quite brilliant though. Reeve leads from the front choosing to concentrate on geek Clark Kent than on comic-cutout ubermensch 'Superman'. Indeed John Williams pilfered Richard Strauss' own ubermenschmusik (Also Sprach Zarathustra) to produce a transcendent, heroic yet exciting score. The film is a rich mix of pathos, comedy and excitement. It's also terrifying. As a young boy I was traumatised by a sequence borrowed from contemporaneous disaster movies used to give Superman's challenges some sense of scale and reality.A much loved modern classic. 9/10
So much about this film recognises the appeal of Japanese samurai/ronin action adventures, recycling it with the assumption it will be welcome. It is. I enjoy the trappings of any genre movie as much as the next person. Here we have meticulously choreographed fights; ruthless, almost medieval violence (although this is a 19th century period film); melodramatic backstory, often in flashback; and the whole thing wrapped in a generous kimono of humour.Additionally, Takeshi Kitano has incorporated modern Western ideas in making such revenge pulp flicks. Chief amongst these is the animation of the gore that accompanies the multiple slayings. I really liked this aesthetic decision, at once modulating the realism and replacing it with something more poetic. It reminded me of the interpolated anime sequence in Tarantino first Kill Bill movie and precedes the comic book appropriation to be found in Rodriguez's (comparatively inferior) Sin City. Additionally there are stylised sequences that use music video-style assimilations of music and visuals. The choreographed bits work well, but the experience gets congested when overlaid and diegetic music clash, as they do on two occasions.The performances are all rather stock, if slightly over the top, but that's the style. Kitano himself as the eponymous Zatôichi is rather good, stooped, mumbling and sagacious. I particularly liked the manner in which the film was edited (the director in conjunction with Yoshinori Ôta) which makes the most of the spams of swordplay and comic exchanges. 6/10
A really marvellous musical film, the best since Chicago and almost as affecting as Dancer In The Dark. Johnny Depp is marvellous, unintimidated by the necessity of singing his role. That said, Depp does something I'm not overly fond of, i.e. he deploys his entire acting palette during a role (light moments become comic moments in this distinctly unfunny musical) but somehow he manages to keep his character consistent despite that. Perhaps this is more Burton's doing.Beside Depp, Helena Bonham Carter's perky but rotten Mrs Lovett is fine support. I was comparably disappointed with the younger cast but delighted that the gravel drawl of Alan Rickman also stretches to convincing song.However, as I've alluded to, the winning decisions in this film are taken behind the camera. Burton's principal issue is storytelling and so he doesn't let the potential for score-accommodating longueurs or breadth to hamper the steady tactus of his drama. Additionally the film manages its uneasy pact between the filthy realism of the 19th century City of London and the cartoonish fanaticism which is Burton's most comfortable modus operandi. It's a horrible, bleak and thoroughly entertaining two hours in a town that frankly hasn't changed very much! 7/10
An epic, modern jail drama A Prophet cannot be called operatic as it's simply too real. Cold, bloody and filthy the design and photography (predominantly hand-held) make Steve McQueen's Maze prison look like a boudoir. Yet the power-struggle and ambition of the individuals, factions and, of course, the remarkable central opportunist Malik El Djebena are well-plotted in a rat-eat-rat arc consistent from beginning to end.This film has one of the nastiest opening 25 minutes of any I've sat through. Tahar Rahim's performance as Malik deserves its accolades on the back of this alone, a performance shivering with the fear of loneliness and pain. Both Rahim and Audiard are to be commended on a murderous sequence of unutterable horribleness that, nonetheless, demands to be watched.Alas, this is the character of the film though, a seamlessly tailored procession of chapters in which Malik claws his way through the sewer- like outlaw's system in pursuit of... well, my exhilaration at the close of the film was comprehensively tarred with conferred immorality. I'm not entirely sure I want to go into a cinema to end up like that on a regular basis. 7/10
In a way it's difficult to do justice to this grand conception in a few words. So much of the film is done on a vast scale using the full panaromas afforded by Blenheim Palace and shot, unusually, on 70mm.Branagh's opulence is an illusion though. Rather like the huge dishes used in modern radio wave telescopes, it's all about focusing the drama. Watch carefully and the whole film is just another staged play. At the centre of it is Branagh's frenetic, peroxide-mopped Hamlet; I liked (and wasn't expecting) the conscious transition to 'normality' that occurs between Yorick and 'there's special providence in the fall of a sparrow'. I'm not an automatic fan of Branagh despite his intellectual weight and facility with the text but this performance is irresistible.He's gathered one hell of a cast around him too. Kate Winslet's Ophelia is brilliant, loving then mad, job done. Nicholas Farrell's Horatio, Jacobi's Claudius and Richard Brier's Polonius are definitive. Julie Chrisite is inspired casting as Gertrude, all things to all interpretations - woman, lover, mother but not quite iced over to the spectre of her own guilt. The second tier of Hollywood heavyweights are all good, no one out of place. I remember being especially moved by the pathos in Robin Williams small cameo as disaster engulfs the palace.Yet this film is still not as good as Zeffirelli's. It can't seem to sit at ease with the natural vernacular of cinema. This is a tricky conclusion to come to as it often looks so good on screen - I also found myself thinking that Kubrick would have been delighted to have achieved such a series of wonderfully framed and arranged shots full of light and symmetry. This styling is not the same as amalgamating the performance, story and scene though and one can't shift the feeling of the whole event being no more than a first class intellectual exercise. 7/10
A Dangerous Method is a film beautifully realised in location and costume, although rather thin where it really matters. The difference between a stage play and a film is the film production's ability to leave that stage and for the dialect to have different channels - visual, musical. I found myself seduced by the look of the film (and the peculiarities of the music) to the point where I was distracted from the discussions that are the meat of Christopher Hampton's script and, surely, David Cronenberg's film.The acting is sufficient but shackled. Only Keira Knightley's neurotic Sabine is able to shine, if only as she can give the pristine turn of the century spaces some colour, some dirt. Perhaps most odd - although not distracting per se - is the persistent use of Wagner, both in original and in re-working by Howard Shore. Wagner's music features briefly sui generis in the film but is persistent throughout: all manner of adaptations of the Siegfried Idyll; the anvil blows of Siegfried itself; and the end of Götterdämmerung (at a remarkably inappropriate place!). One begins to wonder whether this was as much about the rise of nascent fascism as Michael Haneke's The White Ribbon. 5/10
Here's an exercise: try and work out to whom the three acting Oscars were given. I got two of them wrong, assuming that the best actor would be William Holden as Schumacher and overlooking the diamond-sized contribution of Beatrice Straight as his wife. What you'd be hard pressed to mistake is Paddy Chayefsky's script.This is a brilliant film in which the pervasiveness of the business ethic consumes all before it. The film lurches precipitately from absurdity to absurdity - Lumet completely in control of the pacing of it all - as the ambitious management double-act of Duvall and Dunaway (the Oscar that you can guess) pursues the money. In the midst of all the contradiction and pin-balling is Holden's weary but never beaten News capo riding the ratings surf in a moral dingy holed below the waterline. His wonderful acting is matched only by Peter Finch's Beale, a classic Oscaring barnstormer which nonetheless always seems to keep some grip on reality (and which puts Tom Wilkinson's nominated turn in Michael Clayton into perspective). Tougher than Wall Street, loonier than The Hudsucker Proxy, it also manages to be very funny. 9/10
This film's a bit of a mess to be honest. As you already know from the trailer, Aaron Johnson puts on an outfit and starts to answer back to bad guys. The problem is that the coming of age flick that Matthew Vaughan knows is in here simply gets forgotten as he pursues his bloodlust for copious violence. This is the same indulgent, market-distracted attitude that allowed Richard Curtis to give us the aberration that is Love Actually; interesting ideas sacrificed on the sopping wet altar of the cheap thrill.Disappointingly, even for the Grindhousephile, the violence is particularly boring. It apes but never manages to re-create the style of Sin City, The Matrix, Kill Bill etc. Equally, part of the exhilaration of (for example) Kill Bill is that the violence wasn't particularly comic. Vaughan's pushiness with a ready gag at such moments really saps the energy. As I've suggested, the high-school rite-of-passage film that is the most promising element of the film never gets traction. The early jump-cut sniggering about jerking off is soon neglected for action (involving a really grim fetish for blades).I like Aaron Johnson and one can't ignore anything Mark Strong is in, although he's clearly playing the goon. Chloe Moretz is impressive, although characteristically one-dimensional and (another Curtisism) is given a jarring, unnecessary pottymouth. Everyone else is dreadful, B-for-bland-movie staple. A wasted opportunity. 3/10
Elegy is a film about a professor, David Kepesh, who falls in love with a young woman. It's not about their relationship, nor about the lack of a relationship with his estranged son - even his close friendship with a poet only exists in order to allow articulation of his analysis and misgivings when we need a break from the intermittent voice-over. It's about Kepesh alone, how he reacts to a seismic emotional shift in his life and why.Yet the absorbing central performance that this demands is not forthcoming. I want to say that Ben Kingsley's acting is under-par, neutral, as it's less involving than other characterisations. However, one cannot deny the intensity of his performance. So instead I have to say that he is miscast, his rigid hauteur ill-suited for a man brooking overwhelming self-doubt and regret to an almost suicidal extent.Isabel Coixet is no help. The film looks quite good but rolls out at a single pace allowing no space in which to dip and dive between burgeoning love and the rash moments that come with fear. The music is not well-judged either, invariable in its temperament. It simply accentuates the gap between the exotic potential of the fine performance (and simply presence) of Penelope Cruz and the earth-bound, wing-clipped film in which she appears. 4/10
Coming after the success of The King and I and To Catch A Thief, clearly Leo McCarey's brief was to have Kerr singing and Grant looking suave. He achieves some success with all this, turning out a Techincolor pageant that dwells on the principals and their romantic locations (Cote d'Azur & Big Apple). There are also one or two coups: the first kiss; the ending.It's a dreary film though. The dramatic - and, alas, comic - pacing of the film sputters like a choleric coupé making hard work of a drive in the Riviera mountains. I gather that the principals were encouraged to improvise. It doesn't work at all. When points are to be made they are overworked and patronising, clogging the film like cholesterol. Too much of the film is made in the studio and all of it over-tinted so the locations feel wasted; Grant's strong tan is almost risibly dark.If you've seen Sleepless In Seattle you have also seen most of this; thin but not without charm. 4/10
A wonderful, dense, entertaining and shocking film. In a way it defies analysis (there's manicured irony in using Thom Yorke's 'Analyse' as the song under the credits). It's part Gothic horror, love story, occult sci-fi thriller... the plot hangs together despite its many sleights of hand but quite how it remains so utterly compelling is a different issue.I think it's largely to do with the acting from an extraordinary diverse cast. A (cockneyfied) Bale and Jackman head the cast which takes in cinematic aristocracy old (Caine) and new (Johansson), untried (Rebecca Hall) and cult (Serkis and Bowie). There are no weaknesses.But then I suspect that Nolan has an auteur's grip over the project. The editing is exact and deftly directs the audience to where he wants them to look. The script is what is being delivered - sometimes a little too softly in the mix from Bale, my only gripe - and the film takes no indulgent turns over its fleeting 2 hour span. It's a movie of high craftsmanship. 8.5/10
A slapstick comedy with all manner of genre add-ons: it can also claim to be a buddy movie, a romcom and it's certainly a platform flick for Vaughn to roll out his tough-love jive talk and Wilson his cheeky charm-boy.Vaughn is beginning to tire me. I can admire his quick tongue and leftfield channels of thought but it's so often hectoring and self- centred. Wilson is a more sympathetic character and wisely this is what Dobkin puts at the centre of the movie, although it's still insubtantial. The support cast do their job within the confines of the movie (which moves too early from general wedding crashing to the necessarily meatier drama of the rest of the movie). Rachel McAdams doesn't quite have her comedy chops and is upstaged by a raucous, too-grown-up-for-American-Pie Isla Fisher. Walken plays it straight and Jane Seymour against type - both are better cameos for that but cameos they remain. Rather thin 3/10
There are corners where the film seems dated or shows off its less-than-impressive budget. These are swept aside by its effervescent good humour. A collision between a stoner movie and a high school yarn, this film's greatest assets are the titular principals - and a quirky, restless script.Alex Winter and Keanu Reeves (Bill and Ted respectively) need to finish their history assignment or their band is going to become part of it. Up steps the cool yoof-sprecher Rufus giving them the opportunity to visit the history they're trying to learn in a phone box. Naturally he has an ulterior motive and, naturally x 2, Bill and Ted's adventure may well be excellent but that's largely as it's not entirely smooth...Although it's following in the mighty footsteps of Back To The Future, Bill & Ted still manages clever, time-bending gags and plot twists which don't seem contrived. In fact, it was sufficiently well-received to coin any number of one-liners and idioms and spawn a sequel. Such is the history of the cult movie in general. 5/10
Rather like last year's Inception, Black Swan gives the impression it's cleverer than it actually is. Nina Sayers finds herself pulled into a spectral whodunnit, where the 'what' that the 'who' has done involves possible self- harm and catching sight of herself in the street. Whether or not there are answers to this conundrum is beside the point by the end of the film. Rather, the maelstrom of questions are designed to float the melodrama which is the real, abstract content of the film.Abstract content? The naive, ballet-closeted Sayers is forced to confront the possibility that she has a darker, more lascivious part of her that perfect dance technique alone cannot represent. The ballet environment is gift of a circumstance for this, as everyone is enclosed by mirrors (technically, the film continually pulls of the coup of 360 degree tracking shots in studios where the camera isn't seen). Here is the core of the film (buried within the Tchaikovsky) that Aronofsky can work with, the Faustian idea that in order to employ the doppelgänger's qualities, those of the original must be compromised or given up. Aronofsky uses an array of ideas, often simple but well-edited in-camera tricks to create the sense of seduction and danger in this idea. Indeed, this film is the perfect vehicle for his ability to synthesise style and narrative. The final 20 minutes become a perfectly resolved tour-de-force of this approach as Tchaikovsky's irresistible score sublimates all the facets of Aronofsky's film. The performances are pretty good too, with Vincent Cassell contributing convincing self-absorption - despite being saddled with drag-and-drop scripting, "more passion!" - and Mila Kunis playing hopscotch with the paranoia-inducing role of friend or traitor. Natalie Portman is brilliant as Sayers (irrespective of the quality of her dancing which doesn't matter anyway) although I'd have loved it if she had spent a little less of the film in tears. 7/10
Critically well-received when it was released Bad Santa was purported to open a window on the festivity-and-fug-filled front room of the Christmas movie. Don't you believe it. I only lasted half the film, abandoning it for good at a continuity error so awful that I could only conclude Terry Zwigoff doesn't care much about his audience either.I think the idea is that the anti-Christmas message permeates the idea of the film being a Christmas film as well. It's not about Christmas but rather about Willie, a career criminal for whom Christmas is just another opportunity. Billy Bob Thornton is rather good as a foul-mouthed, socially inept drunk safe-cracker but that's about the extent of it. No one else is any good, it's graceless in the worst tradition of the Farrelly brothers 'gross-out comedies' there are innumerate plot cul-de-sacs and worst of all it's boring. 2/10
More action and thrills than laughs but it has plenty of them as well. This is a nice role for Arnie, which takes in his appeal in exactly the right proportions. He always works best in tandem with another actor (Belushi, Devito - even Linda Hamilton) and the 90s goofball par excellence Tom Arnold is just about right, if a little manic. Jamie Lee Curtis is an above average female co-star although she's less well appropriated. Her key moment is a very embarrassing pole-dancing sequence: she's a pro though and with her super body many people will see it as a highlight of the movie.Above all it's a James Cameron movie rather than an 'Arnie' (Predator constitutes an 'Arnie' for me) so it's got quite a punch. I also think Robert Laing's art direction has a lot to do with the success of a film which clearly wants to outdo Bond and has a good go at it. 6/10
A spring-tight, frightening suspense thriller that plays on the claustrophobia and connotations of post-9/11 air travel. It's conventional in many ways: Hitchcockian suggestiveness; an opening (replete with character on a bench) that suggests Shyamalan's Sixth Sense; dead-end twists that suggest a big one in the pipeline.I particularly enjoyed the lovingly shot reflective surfaces. The hotel windows of the opening, the foil and brushed metal of the innards of the plane, the glossy modern German metro train and the closed boarding walkway ... they're all carefully lit with understatement and a variety of light sources. The whole time you're wondering whether surfaces are opaque or transparent - rather like the question of whether Jodie Foster's neurotic mother Kyle Pratt can actually see her daughter or not.Foster is very good, if playing the part entirely at one end of her emotional range. There's quite a gulf between her and a functional supporting ensemble. There are also loose ends but they're forgotten in the general tension and pace of the picture. 7/10
Another film where the pitch is the first thing that leaps to mind: 'yes, the script's by two unknown, er, teenagers but it's great - it's about a maths prodigy who works as a cleaner...'Well, Good Will Hunting is these things and considerably more. It's best described as a rite-of-passage drama in which the tough competitive spirit of a group of friends from Boston carries one of them to love and vocation almost despite himself. For all that Matt Damon and Ben Affleck won an Oscar for their screenplay, Matt Damon's performance as Will Hunting is also very good indeed, raw, romantic and unintimidated by on-form Robin Williams. Minnie Driver is a believable romantic foil and Gus van Sant really manages the look of the film well: the empty, after-hours college building that Will inhabits is just like the empty, dry interior that he's trying to fill. 7/10
A concise animation that follows in the great tradition of Disney; a story to paint big themes large. A rat discovers its ability to cook at the same moment that a struggling restaurant takes on a hapless pot-washer. All manner of secondary themes get incorporated from humility to hubris, father-son relations, (food-centric) ethics to aesthetics to the function of the critic...... I wondered whether or not this subliminal playing to the gallery is why the film was more warmly received than my experience of it would have warranted. It's a fairly light film, with a un-Disney glibness towards the seriousness of the drama. I was touched by the capable resolution of the main arc - that what matters is what is good and true, and pretensions be hanged - but I always felt I was watching something slightly alien. Perhaps the dual layer of a literate rodent and his conscience manifested as a human ghost had popped my soufflé of disbelief. That and the character exposition hors d'oeuvre concocted in a rural cottage seemed a bit undercooked.Ultimately though, a very thorough, well-meant and satisfying cartoon. 6.5/10
A funny, frightening and rather forlorn flick. It's difficult to decide whether it's actually intended as a political satire (it covers Iranian society and government from the 1970s to the present) or as a more conventional rite-of-passage movie with the social turbulence as a backdrop. The crushing denouement renders it the former.There's very little to criticise directly. The one problem I have with this film is the same as that for The Simpsons: it's a 2-dimensional form and as such it really can't quite sustain a sense of development to correspond with a 90-min storyline.That said, the voiceovers are excellently judged and the artwork's first rate. The story is told at a measured satirical pace, alternating its outrage with both sharp and warm good humour. An enjoyable film about the depressingly familiar. 7/10
Despite the calibre of the cast (on paper), Trance is a modest film for Danny Boyle. No doubt this has something to do with the large scale of his profile, if not his work (Slumdog Millionaire and 127 Days were both comparably modest films, but part of a slipstream period leading up tot he 2012 London Olympic ceremony which he directed to great acclaim).Unfortunately, it looks rather modest on the screen too. The design looks glossy but its a simple gloss, lacking detail. The film itself over-compensates with a welter of symbols, flashbacks, overlays and other sensory paraphernalia that over-cook this puzzlebox thriller. I was lost by the halfway point and the final tying up of loose ends was ineffective. A film that was designed to pursue similar ground to Christopher Nolan in both Memento (style) and Inception (content), the achievement was to show just what a significant achievement Nolan had reached. Performances are committed but chopped up by the edit. Disappointing 5/10
Formula films - genre films - are often much maligned. The problem with having familiar layouts and tropes in any art is that the creators might come to depend on them rather than build on them. When the armature becomes a receptacle there's a problem. Well, there's no problem with this inventive, energetic college drama. Peter Weir's cunning stroke is to centre the iconic 'carpe diem' sequence around old (beautifully sequenced) photos of alumni: the day to be seized is not some new idea but a traditional one, he seems to be asserting. This isn't a film about outmoded ideas but complacency.Robin Williams is excellent, playing John Keating as a puckish sage. Robert Sean Leonard performance as Neil Perry is most affecting, possibly setting a benchmark too high for the furtherance of his career to date. Ethan Hawke is the green observer, a character who would have been cast as the narrator if this had been a period piece. Kurtwood Smith does a dependable turn as Leonard's father. 6/10
A funny, cuddly romantic comedy with a sequence at the top of the Empire State building that can reasonably lay claim to modern classic status. It's also a rather peculiar film - I found it something of a digest of the sorts of situations one finds in the genre.Tom Hanks jokes to forget the mother of his son - Meg Ryan is charming in her engagement to Bill Pullman (playing the soon-to-be cuckolded with grace) but distracted. Cupid is a butter-wouldn't-melt but irritatingly precocious 8 year old Jonah played competently by Ross Malinger. No-one is dangerous or offensive; it's very clean. The drama comes from the flirting on the precipice of possibility that Hanks and Ryan might never meet. There's nothing wrong with that. 7/10
This nasty but effective Stephen King adaptation also has an eye on a political subplot. In the event it becomes a sharp fable on moral dubious mass entertainment with Arnold Schwarzenegger the angry, righteous hero. Dragged from a prison which looks rather like a modern gulag, the subversive Ben Richards (Schwarzenegger) is an easy choice to get thrown into a near-future gladiatorial labyrinth. The mindlessly baying audience select which of a roster of stupidly-monikered executioners will go after the 'running men' to try and kill them.Yaphet Kotto pops up and is a pleasure to watch as a very angry co-competitor. Director Paul Michael Glaser moves from one situation to the next without fuss so that the action and drama run in synch: it's not long before Maria Conchita Alonso is cast into the game as well - a nice twist that really cranks the movie up a gear. Arnie's at the height of his appeal, all gurning and gargantuan guns and Richard Dawson's loathsome showhost Killian has all that inevitably comes to him. 7/10
A film to divide its viewers. Just criticism points at its funereal pace, over-used snap zooms and persistent, lingering gazes between the protagonists. Advocates point to Dirk Bogarde's mighty performance and Pasqualino De Santis' benchmark photography of Venice.Taken altogether, this might suggest an indulgent, romanticised elegy for the nobility of homosexual love (at a time, 1971, when it was becoming consensually legal). In fact Visconti has succeeded in making a richer, more complex film than such a single-issue vehicle. He has knit his ideas - foibles and all - into a meticulously paced arc.Inside this does indeed sit the central performance of Bogarde's Aschenbach. Rather than a simpering, Johnny-come-lately gay, he manages to give a pathetic composer beaten by tragedy and misunderstood integrity who sees salvation in Tadzio. His mesmerised staggering around an increasingly hellish Venice after the boy is a straight metaphor for the artist's tenacity for truth in the teeth of the dilettante mob (and it is explicitly cut with such a flashback).Mahler's music is possibly a little over-used although it is well appropriated. The Italian overdub is a wearing anachronism but thankfully the acting doesn't suffer too much. 7/10
There were two elements of 8 1/2 which left a lasting impression on me. The first is the music, which is often suggested as diagetic but which continues even when this has become impossible. Even in the dog-eared print I was watching, this was highly effective at dovetailing Guido's dream, real and all-points-inbetween liminalities.The second is the persistent, existentially arresting influence of the women that he has around him. Guido acts like Hamlet, unable to complete his task or make love to these women. His reputation and ambition is represented for him by his production team and sponsor: a colossal, grotesque and clearly overambitious phallic spaceship. Instead of rising to meet the challenge or adopting the humility that might foreclose the folly of it all he hangs on, waiting for something.Is it inspiration? Is this really a film about writer's block? I found Mastroianni's performance as Guido more interesting that that of La Dolce Vita in that there is no angst about his procrastination. He feels no pressure or remorse. I enjoyed his exchanges with Claudia Cardinale - mirrored successfully in the worthy but rather prosaic musical remake Nine by Nicola Kidman - in which the two simply seem to enjoy each other's company despite the contradictions of their relationship and its intractability.This is not as successful a film as its predecessor. It is however part of the sophisticated, dispersed-narrative cinema pioneered by Antonioni around the time. For all this - and for all that it has suggestions of other similar ideas (Bergman's Seventh Seal in the final shot?) it retains an originality which makes it worthwhile. 5/10
A wonderfully sustained, straightforwardly told tale of a modern, liberal family's descent from light to darkness and back. The themes in the story may be found in the opening shot of Alexander playing with his miniature theatre and in the (Upanishadi) shots of flowing water prefacing the subsequent five 'Acts' of the film; those themes are explored in the tension between the two groups of the film - men and women.The men, represented by the innocent Alexander are demonic: immoral, neurotic, evil, weak and mortal. Alexander himself is a mystic. Fanny represents the women: emotional but moral and steadfast. The exception to this is the world-straddling androgyne Ismael, an insidious yet reassuring character who appears almost in cameo towards the end.Yet, above all, Fanny and Alexander is a gloriously uncomplicated film, easy to look at on the screen (predominatnly medium shots and the great Sven Nykvist's photography capturing the Oscar winning costume and set design). With the exception of the slightly stilted Bertil Guve, who plays Alexander, the cast is irreproachable and feast on a script that is a model of clarity, even in subtitular translation. Into this Bergman scatters the merest handful of magic realist surprise and delight and a great deal of affection. 8.5/10(Framescourer saw the five-hour version on Artificial Eye DVD)
There are two ways to get a huge number of A-list faces on the big screen and where the first is usually a biblical or wartime epic, the other is a grand concept comedy such as Cannonball run. Essentially the film seems to have been shot on the fly whilst an actual cross-America car race took place. Hal Needham's picture was the first to use the outtakes in the end credits but sometimes its difficult to distinguish a blooper from the craziness that had gone before.Still, Burt Reynolds' charisma drives (ahem) the film, along with his stooge, the hilariously cranky Dom DeLuise as Victor. Or Captain Chaos. Hmm. The rest of the cast have roles but they're essentially playing themselves - having said that Roger Moore's moniker of Seymour Goldfarb Jr. is a work of art. The fun benefits from money being spent on some inventive stunts and a police department with a sense of humour. 3/10
Less than the sum of its parts. A novel optioned very early portends a good movie, generally speaking - throw in David Hare to adapt the screenplay, a director with a hit and a remarkable adaptation of his own to his name, two A-list actors and a titanic duo producing (now sadly missed)... well, it ought to be a bit better than this.Presumably Bernhard Schlink's book is attempting to examine the profoundly sad and intractable issue of Germans trying to live in the present given a recent past of shame. After all, this is clearly what Daldry is trying to do with it. The problem is that the perfectly well-told individual threads of story fail to inform or even cross with one another. Key in this is the literacy of the title: the plot twist in which literature is involved is weak; the fate of the 'readers' seems impertinent; the role played by enduringly great literature or poignant billets doux is left uninvestigated.The key sequence of the film comes towards the end as two educated, moderate figures caught up in the Holocaust look for an honest future. This is a case in point. Despite being the apotheosis of the film, it's insufficiently well-scripted and certainly not well-played or captured. That said The Reader is a sober, competent film throwing its haymakers at a big subject with some sort of effect. I don't think Winslet's performance - though very good - is an Oscar-winner but that of her experience-shallow opposite, David Kross is highly commendable. Fiennes is noble but acting in a purpose-void. 5/10
A wonderfully composed film, claustrophobic and destabilising. It has a rhythm like the slow twisting of a tourniquet. Deneuve's beautician seems to float across the surface of the first half hour of the film, absorbing but not engaged in scene after scene. Her strangely involuntary self-incarceration in her apartment finally allows her to project her neuroses onto the building, as onto a silent psychiatrist. Polanski's ideas are surpassed by their execution; symbols, magic realism and a well-calibrated use of mirrors, panning and semi-fisheye lenses bring her dysfunctional mind to life, literally through the walls.Deneuve is quite excellent. Clearly Carol's experience of her exclusively female workplace, her sister's coarse, adulterous squeeze and a very proper but ardent potential boyfriend unlock in her a terrible conflict of untutored and unmanageable sexual desire (there may even be something much more sinister, suggested in the final shot). We understand all of this - yet Deneuve has virtually nothing to say and, to draw us into the moral silt along with the very real filth of rotting vegetables and carcases she remains opaque throughout. Although Patrick Wymark takes his comparatively prosaic scene as the Landlord well, no-one else comes close to matching her intensity.Occasionally I thought of Mike Leigh: there's an attentiveness to the unexplored crevices of the domestic everyday and a shrewd investigation of the familiar or mundane. Polanski's project is more operatic though, targeting larger, more nebulous characters beyond those actually populating the picture. I liked Chico Hamilton's music for this reason - a jazz-inflected score (which along with the Chelsea locations recalls the contemporaneous Blow-Up) but attentive to the film in hand. Essential to see in a good print. 8/10
A touching, postmodern film dealing in themes familiar from Fight Club, Adaptation and even I *love* Huckabees. Will Ferrell's (straight-played) IRS auditor changes his dead-end life when the all-too-present voice of a subplot author (Emma Thompson) tells him he's to die. His mid-life rite-of-passage adventure into his identity and desire is eased by a charming Maggie Gyllenhaal and the tacit secondary narration of Dustin Hoffman, playing the same role as he did in Huckabees but with a much wider palette of compassion.The film bristles with a surreal knowingness, from it's dual-purpose narration and flashforwards to the (Fight Clubby) statistical graphics in-shot. It's a well-meaning if emotionally bulging film, the ramifications of the philosophy (free will and overdetermination covered in a similar fashion to Minority Report) sometimes tripping up the flow of the story. For all that, it does flow with good humour and nice performances - except the entirely miscast and, actually, superfluous literary agent of Queen Latifah. 7/10
A strong, affecting fantasy. It's also a very explicit film and it's in this that I find the film has its considerable Achilles heel.However, it's right to first consider the film's great strengths. I like very much the 'staginess' of the production - the film played out either inside or in the immediate environs of the castle that the hectoring Spanish fascists have overrun. Apart from anything else, this enclosure (if not claustrophobia) means that the only escape is inside.The extent to which Ofelia's experience of the alternative world about her is real or escapist concoction is well-obscured, until, possibly, the end. The ideas are strong and original - there's also a good, Disney-tradition balance between wonder and genuine horror.Here's a problem though. The film is very explicit. Whilst this makes the violence perpetrated by the humans and in the fantasy world correspond and lends credence to the ultimate escapism-by-fantasy explanation of the action, I don't feel that the denouement - the moral of the story - bears any relation to this. The character of Ofelia is fearful and pushed into her daydreaming through that fear. But we do not see her in the more implicit action of making moral or political decisions - or simply absorbing the ethical dialogue flying about her - which makes the ending, though affecting, abrupt and awkward.The role of Ofelia is superbly taken by Ivana Baquero and the rest of the cast is strong, if pitched at one melodramatic level too high by the director (this makes the transition to fantasy much smoother though). 6.5/10
An up-to-date, colourful New York fairytale to watch with all the family. Sadly it capitulates with fifteen minutes left to go, descending into the goo it had amiably lampooned hitherto. Nonetheless, for the most part I bought into the perfectly choreographed sugar rush of animation, singing grinning and surrealism.Amy Adams is a perfectly cast as the wide-eyed naif, steamrolling up the great white way. She carries the film, brushing off even the studio- inflected denouement. The two princes charming - there has to be some tension beyond the bizarre, trans-dimensional rescue drama that Kevin Lima has concocted - are the terrifically urbane Patrick Dempsey, and the blitzen-smile dash of James Marsden. In support Timonthy Spall and Susan Sarandon chew the scenery somewhat but they are incidental. 5/10
A thirty-something's dream summer movie, a bittersweet romantic comedy ironically bleached by the day-glo hip hop soundtrack. It's better than a simple nostalgia montage though. The unlikely friendship of Luke Shapiro (Josh Peck) and his psychiatrist (Kingsley) is the buddy movie subplot that might as well be the permissive 60s and its zonked-out, ideologically vacant progeny.The two men muddle through, but it's the summer romance in summery New York that propels the film. Luke doesn't have any sort of direction until he's gifted the company of Olivia Thirlby's Stephanie, a streetwise but unthinking classmate - with mate being the operative word.It's a pretty straightforward film. There's plenty of amiable humour and a number of small but well-drawn supporting characters. I felt it missed a trick though. The temperament of the film seems so well-judged, human but halcyon, that I was preparing myself for an enormous twist, a juddering revelation or emotional detonation. Instead Levine chokes and goes for a weak final 15 mins with too much talk and unable to stop the comic wagon on which he's carted the rest of the film along. 7/10
An exciting, mittel-concept, three act thriller - i.e. one hair-raising, action-filled race against time per act. It's also a notable film, a pre-terrorism film in which bombs in public can be treated with a glossy élan which one might find a little harder to justify to a studio now.The film is all about Jan de Bont marshalling the chases and thrilling effects in tandem with cameras - the performances are secondary. That said Keanu Reeves is a striking leading action man, if terse. Sandra Bullock came up trumps in this her breakout role, providing wisecracks to offset the severity of Reeves but never dipping into outright frivolity. Dennis Hopper's the bad guy and you can't say fairer than that for your money. 6/10
Jim Carrey, suspended from the clothes line of high concept, squirms and pratfalls his way through this film to good effect. The idea is that his career-centric Fletcher Reede gets his comeuppance for neglecting his son when he is struck with a curse that denies him speaking other than the truth for a day. It's a nice set up for Carrey who's at his best when battling the supernatural (The Mask, Bruce Almighty) or surreal (Lemony Snicket, Truman Show). He's aided and abetted with the venal Amanda Donohoe, dial-a-moppet Justin Cooper and the straight guy of Maura Tierney. Actually Tierney's a rather good foil for this sort of comedy as she's clearly a frustrated comic actor herself. Big moral, very funny, no surprises, blah, blah. 3/10
A good week to be watching this film, a week in which Ricky Gervais releases his own self-directed, high-concept Hollywood matinée (The Invention of Lying). Gervais, a proved master satirist, has a small role in this satire on the film industry, which is filmed in the same pseudo-fly- on-the-wall manner as Extras or The Office. It works and, like A Mighty Wind before it, it works because of the performances and the carefully marshaled structural formality of a film that, on the face of it, seems to grow out of itself.The problem I have with this - and I must have a problem as I had to go and make a cup of tea in both these Christopher Guest films - is that one has to trust that the drama is just around the corner. For a large part of the first third the plot thrust isn't readily obvious, buried in sharp characterisation and pastiche. I didn't get For Your Consideration out of the DVD library to see a string of clever sketches about all the types within and without the industry being mockumented.We get there eventually though and the denouement is as sad as it is inevitable. Guest has a super roster of loyal actors to call upon for these pieces of his and they are all fine, particularly here the two trade workhorses (Catherine O'Hara and Harry Shearer) who allow their integrity to buckle spectacularly at the mere whisper of an Academy Award nomination. 6/10
A fine film. An American urban working class drama, it manages to steer clear of almost every possible idiomatic pothole created by predecessors charging blithely down the same street. It seems real - only the controlled framing tells you that it's not a documentary to begin with - it's often funny, and has wonderfully placed surreal day-dream sequences (I wasn't a fan of these per se, but I liked how they were used). The Dangerous Minds/Freedom Writers school of contrived classroom turnaround is completely avoided (with one notable exception). The final set piece is one of the most raw, emotionally bruising and uplifting things I've seen in a cinema for a very long time; everyone was crying.At the centre is (worthy Oscar tip) Gabby Sidibe as the eponymous Clareece Precious Jones. The fact that her middle name is not some sort of irony lever is a testament not only to Lee Daniels but also to her iron performance. It's also impressive that the satellite cast act with the character she is digging out (yes, even Mariah Carey, an amazing metamorphosis). It would be so simple and safe for everyone to treat Clareece as the fat girl whose acts garner pity and pathos. That is not this film, not by a very long way.The film achieves so much. It's relentlessly warm and human - a middle- class audience, such as the one I was in at the 53rd London Film Festival, doesn't need to nod sagely and side with the protagonists as abstract figures representing a life of alternative fortune. There's too much to enjoy and synchronise with. Consequently, when the bad things happen they are spasm-in-the-auditorium shocking. Brilliant. 8/10
A surprising hit, a subversive, twisty thriller that is bound to prosper by word of mouth. Fomented in the psychiatric deconstructionism of The Sopranos, Mr Brooks plays a serial killer whodunnit backwards. Costner is the titular schizophrenic who battles with but also finds solace in his Mr Hyde, played on screen by William Hurt. Overlaid is the story of an urbane Clarice Starling called Tracey Attwood, played by Demi Moore, whose character and own plot both complements and tracks that of Mr Brooks.There's not a lot wrong with this film. I'll list a couple of things for propriety's sake - it's a dark film, as so much happens at night. Also, the dialogue can be a little opaque to maintain the tension.These are blood-from-a-stone quibbles though in what may well prove the hit thriller of the autumn. 8/10
A glossy, seasonal feelgood. Standing alone the film is a gaudy disposable with great special effects to match the imaginative ducking and diving of the story.Of course one might be tempted to compare it to Mel Stuart's 1971 film. Burton's 2005 re-working is less good than that classic in almost every respect. With the possible exceptions of Johnny Depp's Michael Jackson-a-like Wonka, the acting is depressed and characterless. The songs are mummified by over-production (not that they had much life to begin with, being poor relations of Leslie Bricusse's marvellous songs). The Oompah-Loopah's are more like I would imagine Roald Dahl had imagined - small reproductions of the protagonists, rather than dwarfs - but they go the same way as the songs. They've even been cloned like the songs have!I was most surprised that Burton, a master of chaste, imaginative shock, didn't use the scary Slugworth subplot. The darkness mitigating the sugar-saturated story is instead transferred to a rather stock Oedipal side-drama. This, along with many other 'ooh, I'm just having a flashback' asides and other references betray that this is a Charlie and the Chocolate Factory for the grown-ups who've already seen the first. Competent but rather poor. 3/10
Impossible to watch without entertaining the ghost of Richard Linklater (Before Sunrise/Before Sunset). Indeed Delpy clearly has the aesthetic, subject material and script content in her own mind as well. It is a great testament to her that this is an idiosyncratic, coherent and self- contained rom-com in the metropolitan tradition of Annie Hall.It helps that she persuaded Adam Goldberg to play her lover. He's a fine actor (look no further than Linklater's own Dazed and Confused, no less) but here he's careful not to overplay the Jewish weltschmerz. He's attentive to the chief protagonist being the relationship that the two principals have and not each of them individually. Delpy also does a fine job given that she's clearly shuttling between different ends of the camera - not too 'kooky'.The ensemble cast is well taken without reserve, all creating striking but not overpowering characters along the way. The film is shot largely hand-held and jumps through the episodes with an energy that goes with the purported watershed age of Jack and Marion (they're meant to be 35). I liked it very much. 7.5/10
On paper this should be a winning romantic matinée - but then, on paper, My Big Fat Greek Wedding should have gone straight to video. It's a rather good yarn this, an outlandishly plotted but nonetheless credible romance set in a modern Newfoundland community. It's well-acted and Lasse Hallström moves the story along briskly. So where's the problem?I think it's to do with Hallström's determination not to fall into the clutches of piratical-style yarn-spinning. Me hearties. There are an awful lot of little stories just waiting in line to reveal themselves. In the context of a superstitious coastal community one is always a bit circumspect about whether tales are about to be debunked as myth or simply manufactured, especially as the central prepubescent is painted as borderline clairvoyant. Consequently, none of the plot threads are given the chance to really take hold and stir the emotions. For a sincere film it's emotionally over-restrained.Neither does it help that Kevin Spacey slightly misjudges his homecoming naïf - he goes from being spectacularly stupid, to sagaciously adult in far too short a space of time. All the others have the developmental mettle of their roles better managed. I enjoyed the film but I get the impression that Proulx's novel isn't meant to be quite as breezy. 6.5/10
A funny title for this film. The celebrities are the incidental characters. The principals are pinballs in the Manhattan playground of the celebrated. This lead couple, Lee (Branagh) and Robin (Judy Davis) Simon, find differing fortunes when they try and engage in or eschew the company and lifestyle of infamy.The film is typically whimsical. It doesn't have the same fable quality of Manhattan, his previous b&w movie and it's nowhere near as good as La Dolce Vita, the film on which it is based. Even with the late, lamented Sven Nykvist in charge of the shots there's only one really striking image for me (Famke Janssen on a ferry). I don't feel I've learn much in this clear three acter.The film lives or dies then by the cast. I can now bracket Branagh with Julianne Moore; capable of almost anything on screen (his American accent is flawless and his assumption of Woody Allen's character is unimpeachable theft) but tethered to a core persona I can't get on with. The perennially neglected Judy Davis is just as good but more appetising. The supporting cast do what they're told very well. 5/10
The pre-title sequence alone suggests that this film isn't going to stick to the well-beaten genre path. Also, any film using Bradley Whitford and the music of OK Go is not simply going to run out the usual tropes and twists; invention is the vernacular.In fact, the biggest twist of this film happens very early on and so makes discussing the narrative without giving anything away rather tricky. However, the story of the film is actually not as important about the way it's filmed, about how the characters and their involvement is treated. The Cabin In The Woods succeeds - it's an exciting, funny, easy-going horror - because it plays with the idea of postmodernism. Simple irony is old hat so Drew Goddard and (unsurprisingly, the writer of self-aware sci-fi Serenity) Joss Whedon tell a story that gives the audience the slack of self-awareness whilst repeatedly reeling them in with the taught line of the plot.Shock and gore a-plenty, there's also plenty to laugh at and a class A cameo to look forward to. Go with friends. 7/10
Rather like Schwarzenegger the leading man, synonymous with the brand, has another run out. Also like Arnie in T3 he's teamed with a couple of kids and gets to peddle his old lines to the gallery. The similarities don't end with the characters and quips either - the relationships and plots are remarkably similar.Alas, one further parallel is that the principal isn't trying very hard. This is Willis' least convincing McClean by a long way - the wide-eyed attitude has gone leaving only the ennui.That said this film does press this multiplexer's buttons. Witness excellently rendered dolly shots, giving the film real energy; there is also the most preposterous stunt since Pierce Brosnan dived off a cliff after a bi-plane 11 years ago. But the alternative title that we get here in the UK - Die Hard 4.0 - is appropriately functional. 5/10
It's a peculiar film, Forrest Gump. You can hardly imagine the pitch: 'wholesome but mentally challenged John Doe takes us on a journey through contemporary American history as its unsung hero'. Of course this is precisely the character that appeals not only to The People but specifically to The American People. Hanks's Gump occupies the unassailable American moral ground of being unswervingly obedient to his mother and her blend of Christian and homespun philosophy.I enjoyed Forrest Gump. I thought it was a funny, honest fantasy. Hanks has his döppeltrump out for all to see, switching between goofy and opaquely, intensely serious. Gary Sinise sneers effectively by his side throughout and Sally Field is discreet but affecting as his mother. Contrived, but by no means facile or patronising. 6/10
Hugh Grant's kingmaker film. The very acme of scrummy, dithering Englishness, as seen by all people foreign, Grant triumphs in this romantic comedy with a little help from writer Richard Curtis, who, in his pomp, didn't do too badly off it either.The great masterstroke of the treatment is giving the hapless Anglian prig enough credibility for people to really like him. Consequently Four Weddings And A Funeral could more instructively be called Five Friends and a Brit for the Nineties, because it is out of this (first-class) ensemble that the modern man-boy Charles thrives. On one side are the posh people of old, James Fleet and Kristin Scott-Thomas, bumbling and bitter like blue-blood siblings from dramas a century before. On the other, Britpop - the late Charlotte Coleman as Scarlett - and cuddly homosexuality with John Hannah and John Bull himself (making sure that all this cool Britannia doesn't take itself too seriously), Simon Callow. Charles wants to be neither one nor the other but is clearly both and this elastic, endearing indecisiveness means he gets everything wrong and is thus utterly charming. All Andie McDowell has to do is look perplexed (as well she might) to offset this psychological farce.It's a Third Way drama which mapped the social change in this country that became a political reality three years later, launched a dozen careers and made us laugh without the guilt that later Curtis concoctions brew. Unique. 7/10
Seth McFarlane is a significant enough draw to have made me want to go and see this film on his own. Not only is Family Guy sharp (both good and bad sharp, more on that later) but McFarlane has also shown a breadth to his gifts, most significantly by performing in the BBC Proms classical music festival in the UK (singing musicals standards).Consequently the idea of this artist branching out into a feature film didn't trouble me. I was rather looking forward to it. Despite my own reservations about Mark Wahlberg (he's a poor actor) I was rather looking forward to him playing a comic adolescent-locked-into-middle-age character.The film has its funny moments, including a selection of guest appearances that cover everyone's idea of what a 'cameo' ought to be (see if you can spot Curtis Stigers, a musical collaborator with McFarlane). Unfortunately it also represents the same sort of humour that makes Family Guy both good fun and rather frustrating. Like latter- day Richard Curtis, McFarlane tries to work a comic seam by shocking outrageously, not so much stepping as leaping over the line between close-to-the-bone and unacceptable. Some people enjoy being thrown about like this - I find it tiresome after a short while.The mo-cap (or performance-capture) of the Ted character is excellent and there are one or two good ideas in the narrative. But the film is highly generic and my funny bone met my boredom threshold outside in the foyer for a fag while everyone else was laughing at Chinaman jokes. 5/10
A fine film from Mann - possibly his best. It's tense from start to finish. With the possible exception of a slightly clunky Diane Venora playing Wigand's wife the acting is of the highest standard, real and surprising. Russell Crowe is quite marvellous as Wigand, in every way a square peg in a round hole: the health product expert who finds himself working for a tobacco giant, played as a modest, flawed man with a bear's body and temperament. Al Pacino pulls out another top drawer performance to match him - essentially there are two leads, two Insiders. A wonderful support cast keeps the tension tethered within the fabric of the film even in the melodramatic highs. I particularly like the senior print journalist cameos towards the end and the never-failing pop-up brilliance of Bruce McGill.Criticisms? Not many and for every one I can think of something related which makes it worthwhile. Mann likes small time-outs two expand the poetry of his story-telling, so a burning car by the side of the road may be excessive but the opening reveal at the golf-driving range is fantastic. A bum line (which may be as much Crowe's 'fault') as Wigand begins teaching is a crease in a single span of contiguous, unperforated script. You get the idea. Throw in some pretty top notch photography (Bergman/Pacino's beach-at-night phone call is classic Spinotti) and you can't lose. 8/10
Any film showcasing Hugh Jackman has a considerable asset built in. Unfortunately, unlike the X-Men series, Jackman has to work much harder than usual, largely because of the mono-dimensional performances of those around him. Danny Huston is a capable (if becoming-familiar) baddie and Liev Schreiber a reliably taciturn hunk but the rest are flat (particularly the incapable and daftly over-punctuated Will.i.am).The story works alright although there are some inconsistencies with the subsequent X-Men series. The real drama of the piece (family, loves, the Superman-style 'born in a barn' episode) are short lived and not treated with the same reverence as the splashy fight sequences. These are noisy, dark and increasingly predictable, over-choreographed and badly CGI-ed. No, I didn't like it much. 4/10
Add another comic book to B movie adaptation to the pile. The pile marked 'success' it has to be said. Joss Whedon's approach is all about pacing, keeping it consistent, moving forward. I was never truly bored during this 2 hr 20 min film and this is mostly to do with the director not getting stuck in the sticky sands of melodrama.The thing about these comic creations is that for all their fantasy they have the same emotional range as a human, exploited in the strip narratives but a hazardous area for film: the realism of a photographed image means that anything looking remotely unlikely, from design to effect is going to demand great disbelief suspension. The computer graphics are very good and work well with Whedon's eye for the shot - or the moving sequence - including his own, very welcome brand of postmodern humour.Of the cast, Robert Downey Junior's Stark is the pick of the bunch, though Chris Hemsworth's Thor is also great fun (Hemsworth understands the currency of being pompous without indulging it with too much of a wink). The introduction of Mark Ruffalo is a good casting decision as Banner/the Hulk - Ruffalo manages what Norton and Eric Bana didn't, which is to wear the seriousness and bitterness beneath the surface of the doctor. 6/10
A more-then-competent Shoah film, The Counterfeiters uses the story of a team of Jewish forgers to once again tell the ashen tale. Karl Markovics' master forger Sorowitsch is arrested during the rise of pre- war Nazi Germany, levering a cushy life at his concentration camp by drawing hagiographic images of the guards. He is taken from the camp to resurrect his counterfeiting skill as part of a specialist gang planning to destabilise the Allied markets.Sorowitsch's relationship to the camp commander and the man who arrested him, Herzog, as well as the constant moral tension of helping the Nazi war effort to stay alive, constitute the film's drama. The counterfeiters are separated from the rest of their camp by a simple wooden wall, through which all manner of dread sounds are heard throughout. The fall of this division towards the end of the film is a strong blow and justifies the prosaic nature of the rest of the film, in terms of the canon of Holocaust film making. 7/10
Perfectly cast but really not up to much in the end, this Zorro story can't quite summon the humour to go with the dashing charm. Making Banderas an apprentice to Hopkins is a good idea, circumventing the 1950s TV series' indelible performances by Guy Williams. However, Martin Campbell seems obliged to buy into maintaining the flash without danger that TV deals in - a sequence in which Zorro removes Elena's clothes with the point of his sword is more Benny Hill than the sexually magnetic outlaw. Ugh. Catherine Zeta Jones can do no wrong though - in retrospect this is clearly a steeping stone film rather than the A-list prize itself. 3/10
The opening of this re-imagining of Alice shows great Burtony promise with its vaguely Gothic styling and outsized characterisations. There's also a super actress in the mix right from the off. Mia Wasikowska pulls off the sympathetic square peg in a round hole of Alice-above- ground before we get to any rabbit hole. She's confident but retains the same equivocal appeal that Christina Ritchie had in Sleepy Hollow.The problems set in from the moments she takes a tumble. Heavily CGI reliant, the film quickly becomes something rather more like a cartoon. The synthetic veneer of the enterprise is sealed with a varnish of soporifically generic music by Danny Elfman. The tone soon follows as well as the whole thing becomes more quest than 'queer', you know, rescue drama, swords, blah, blah. I'm also becoming a little inured to Johnny Depp's shtick - Helena Bonham-Carter's Queen is good fun though. 3/10
A stylish film that succeeds through a super cast. It's a revised version of Stephen Frear's hugely entertaining corset-buster Dangerous Liaisons aimed at the lucrative Buffy The Dawson's O.C. market. The updating is kept to a minimum given that the characters are drawn from the rarefied social hothouse of Park Avenue. As a result, there's no pandering to technological currency (e.g. email is explicitly eschewed in favour of script).The acting isn't great but it is thoroughly watchable and entertaining. Phillipe struggles manfully in the long shadow of John Malkovich's career-creating performance. Gellar, Witherspoon and Blair are very strong as a triumvirate of disparate, blossoming femininity. Their success is in translating simple sexual appeal (or its foreswearance) into the broader preoccupations of the modern girl; though aware they're not as susceptible to men through mantra and alternatives offered to modern women. Maybe director Roger Kumble should get the hat tip for that though... 5/10
A consistent, tense whodunnit that doesn't feel it's two and a half hour running length. Fincher has a virtuosic grip over the film, moving swiftly from one relationship and plot thread to another. It's exciting.But it's also a bit superficial. Fincher has patently invested a lot of time in researching the movie and gets bogged down by it all. Vanderbilt has a reasonable stab at thinning it out with his screenplay. Rather like the treacherous coils of Aaron Sorkin's political drama The West Wing, the content is of less importance than the consequent dynamic between the characters. There's no thematic insterstiching though: case and characters co-incide but do not illuminate one another. In a large cast Mark Ruffalo is a wonderful lead as the murder inspector Toschi with great support from Jake Gyllenhaal as the eventual biographer, Graysmith, from whose account the film is gleaned.The film is essentially about the way this unsolved case impacts on those in its orbit. It fulfils this function but rather obliquely and dissatisfyingly. 6/10
In the first of the two Che films (this London Film Festival screening I attended showed both The Argentine and Guerrilla back to back with an intermission) we get all we might expect from a Soderbergh film. Detail without obsessiveness; straightforward storytelling without diluting or oversimplification. The period covered is the Cuban revolution from inception to completion, with flashbacks of Guevara addressing the UN in 1964. Though a large - and largely well-acted - ensemble film, Del Toro dominates the screen. His presence, utterly submerged in his character, gives the impression of a patient, caring Guevara, steely, rather than fiery and almost never ill-tempered. I don't know if we are given a balanced portrait of Guevara but this performance will win Del Toro a best performing actor Oscar. The bookies might as well pay out now.On top of the Soderbergh's own lush photography I was also stirred by Alberto Iglesias' insistent, original but unobtrusive score. By far the better of the two Che biopics. 8/10
At first it looks like it might be a parody of what a camper-than-you- can-imagine showbiz romance between two men might be. Because that's what it is, with Michael Douglas playing the fey Liberace down while the sun-soaked lenses of Steven Soderbergh's camera ramp it up.Quickly one becomes familiar with the film's rhythm though and a stock biopic/romance develops, just under the extraordinary circumstances of a flamboyantly gay showman taking everything from life. What's delightful about Michael Douglas' (and Richard LaGravenese's) Lee is that for all his excess and self-delusion, he is a sympathetic, likable man. Matt Damon's Scott adds to this 3-D portrait by not being a lover of extremes. Both men are unusual but not alien.The costume design - that's to say not the exotic performance outfits! - is impressive and the detail in jewellery, furnishings, pianos and other props is part of the film's vernacular. It's a film that one can also enjoy for the trickle of small roles: Dan Aykroyd's manager (what a hair piece!); Rob Lowe's feline cosmetic surgeon; and Debbie Reynolds, an extraordinary presence whose natural charisma and beauty shines through this heavily prepped pageant to a hedonist's halcyon Hollywood like soft, sharp light. 7/10
A film sufficiently varied, witty and well-made to fill out a bare festive holiday afternoon. Tim Allen reprises his Santa - just the right, warm side of genial - this time in search of a wife to retain his magic Xmas touch. It's the Santa Claus, geddit? Elizabeth Mitchell ends up as the unlikely object of his affections, a sort of cutesy Rene Russo.It really is a kids' B (for bored) movie so there's a fair bit of slapstick, although credit for not overdoing this. One of the ways in which this is subsumed is in the cunning idea of having kids as elves. Even Santas foremen straddle adolescence: David Krumholtz and Spencer Breslin excel here, being both watchable and credible. Though it must be said you will have suspended most critical faculties, not least belief, before kicking back with the mince pies. 3/10
A great, idiosyncratic Western for which Clint Eastwood is indebted to Sergio Leone's great trilogy. Many odd, solipsistic things occur during the film. The set is purpose built but has been left to look as such, as if the town had materialised overnight. The protagonist certainly does and the charismatic townsfolk only emerge in response to his arrival - there is none of the usual urban business in the background. Thus the film unfolds, in a deliberate, dogmatic fashion.Eastwood's terse stranger is virtually a moral blank slate (actually I suspect that an act of charity toward native Indians early in the film is designed to offset the asceticism of this character trait). Instead we are fed the backstory about the inevitable baddies to let us form our own parameters of right and wrong in this alien, godless town. 8/10
A good sheaf of A-listers and some well-executed action sequences are the only things that really keep this woeful action-whodunnit's head above water. It's a dry run for Kiefer Sutherland ahead of 24 - The Movie and a very discreet headlining act for post-Desperate Housewives celebrity inflated Eva Longoria.The thing steams with the visual equivalent of hot air though. There's a gross surfeit of style over substance, trying to engender the mood of action, seriousness and cool. Consequently the first 45 minutes of the film is indescribably boring with countless wasted opportunities to actually make something of the characters. The actors are a misleading ensemble, who give the impression that they have a weightiness which we can only guess at.'Loose ends' best describes the incoherence of the cinematography and the film in toto. Disappointing 4/10
Another washout in this summer of superheropics. The trailer is lifted from the first act before a sizable twist is introduced to try and develop the thing. Up until then there's been a fair amount of wit, although a little forced: the second half of the movie becomes increasingly serious, weighed down with cumbersome efforts to answer the 'where are you from' questions that are so cumbersomely avoided early on.In most of his films I find that Will Smith is rather inconsistent, shifting between in-character and character-as-vehicle-for-Will-Smith. Hancock is no different. There is no connection between the social pariah and the later reformee. Charlize Theron is an effective distraction from Jason Bateman's hamming.I rather liked the third act photography. The only problem is that you have to swallow a loose ends, overcooked dialogue and half-hearted baddies/subplots into the bargain. Too rich for me 3/10
An average martial arts action thriller. It could have turned out much better. Jennifer Garner can act and is the equal of well-established Goran Visnjic. Throw in Kirsten Prout holding her own as an Elektra-adolescent and there's rich ground for creating an interesting plot, real drama putting a new twist into the Freudian implications of the title...Alas, it's all sacrificed on the altar of the wearisomely tried and tested. Actually, the film is fine until about half an hour to go. But then some imbecile has decided that there isn't enough choreographed combat, sfx or red catsuit-cum-bikini clad Garner. Consequently we are subjected to a preposterously clunky, pompous, overstretched set-piece (which apart from anything else looks ugly after having so much lovely location work), following which all the carefully built up relations from the first half hour are dissolved in unscripted visual clichés involving lots of crying and related girlieisms.Shame 4/10
A masterly fantasy movie in which special effects came into their own. It's also got one of John Williams' finest scores breathing life through it. The story is the simple idea that dinosaurs can be replicated from fossilised DNA... but whether they can be made subject of modern technology remains to be seen.There are, of course, a smattering of simmering subplots on the go, not least the hilariously incongruous, rakish Dr Malcolm played by Jeff Goldblum. Goldblum is a necessary foil of humour and danger in a cast which is principally rather scientific and sober, Sam Neill and Laura Dern as earnest researchers who have taken 30 pieces of silver to validate the Park. Spielberg cajoles decent performances form the children and Richard Attenborough is sound as the benighted overseer. If there might be one criticism it's that the animals have an all too human facility for terminal hide-n-seek. But there's too much to enjoy to be picking holes. 8/10
An iron film in several layers of felt gloving. It's a film with a true basis about American funding & training of the mujahedeen in the 1980s against the Russians. It's clear that the Sorkin-Nichols creative team can barely believe the story they're committing to film, so freely do the wit and sight gags revolve about the characters. And they are three Sorkin peaches: Tom Hanks is the eponymous congressman whose bluff, two-track mind (whiskey and women) is permanent decoy for his resolve; Julia Roberts is perfectly cast as an equal parts cocktail of charm and Waspish self-assurance; Philip Seymour Hoffman's socially acrid patriot spy is the choice part and performance of the three.You'll laugh and gasp and do it over and over again. It can be fast (that's how Sorkin likes his lines delivered) and it can descend into pure panto-farce, such as a sequence in Wilson's office with different demands on his time coming in different doors as if in a cuckoo clock. But it's never hectoring and it's warm and sage without being pious (opening shot = Hanks in the buff). It's got Emily Blunt in underwear. It has a G&S gag. The Americans win AND lose. We can't. 8/10
So long! The only way to truly appreciate this movie probably involves cryogenics... There's a real vogue for improvised, or at least scripted-as-improvised scenes in comedy at the moment. Whilst one can appreciate the 'live' texture this gives the film it does make for a distractingly protracted experience.This - and possibly the excess of explicit smut which was born and died with the 90s Farrelly brothers - is really all that's holding this otherwise super flick back. As the improbable day of these hormone-powered Jewish high school friends pans out an even-handed rite-of-passage movie blossoms. On occasion it takes itself a little too seriously but with a market flush with ker-azy John Hughes and 60s-70s period pieces Superbad capably fills its own niche. 5/10
Made to look like a video game, this film is best watched, as I did, on a commercial TV channel. That way you get the mesmerising blur of fake broadcast idents in the film followed by a channel ident followed by a sponsor ident - which in this case, beautifully, was for a video game.Because that's what it is. A nonsensical, violent extrapolation of a game that involves the perfect amalgam of cars and guns. Hang on though, no women? Yes, there are the requisite women, all far too scrubbed and svelte to have survived as law abiding girls, written into the race as navigating co-drivers.So why's it worth a star or two? Well anything with Joan Allen is worth watching for a start. Then there's the extraordinary invention with which a dozen individuals (whether wearing a ton or two of internal combustion engine or not) get killed. And finally there's the charisma of Jason Statham who knows exactly what he's suppose to do in this role and just gets on with it. 3/10
A magnificent, swaggering, shamelessly enjoyable matinée thriller. It effortlessly parades the majority of action thriller tropes and launched Bruce Willis into the post-Moolighting A-list stratosphere.The key ingredient is the outrageous. The hostage situation which instigates the action is set in motion like a circus act. Alan Rickman's guignol German baddie is a masterclass in managing hugely enjoyable screen presence with a genuinely villainous character. The action sequences (and, invariably, explosive endings) are satisfyingly over-the-top.And of course, Willis is the coarse, hick old-school American hero in a world which is obviously moving at a pace too fast for him. Like his namesake Springsteen, he embodies 'traditional' Americana virtue; but his actions are in defence of the slick, corporate world in which he doesn't fit. The baddies are foreign. Yippy-ki-ay indeed, cowboy 8/10
I rather enjoyed the first couple of acts of this (surely unfinished) blockbuster. Marc Foster gets right on with it. All the stuff you've seen in the trailers seems to happen in the same span as the pre-titles of a Christopher Nolan flick. It's quite exciting and I was even a little spooked myself.The film starts to get a little labored as Brad Pitt's indeterminate UN- type begins to guess a possible solution. This dawning idea seems to coincide with a truly extraordinary handbrake turn in the film; a flight out of apocalyptic Israel points Pitt towards Wales because it's cheap to film there - oh, sorry, no, because that's the nearest WHO research facility and suddenly the whole circus scales right down into a TV version of 24 Days Later. The film ends in much the same way as I Am Legend but without anything like the satisfactory arc prior to it. And credit where it's due - to the (apparently) uncredited Zombie in the WHO facility, the first to prove Gerry's theory right. 4/10
There are a handful of extraordinary scenes in Amour that could be excised without any loss to the coherence or momentum of the film proper. This is a straight story of a couple who face the trials of their advanced age with stoicism but also humanity. Neither Georges nor Anne can transcend the irritances of their situation effortlessly. Haneke documents both the nobility and pettiness that characterise their relationship with each other, their daughter and the circle of acquaintances without contrivance.This is a Michael Haneke film however, and three elements of the film are noteworthy, two which embellish the narrative. Symbolism is suggested rather than posited with an intrusive pigeon rather more about intrusion itself than the bird. There are also a handful of sequences that cross the metaphysical plane of the film, including the quietly arresting interpolated view of various landscape paintings - an obscure but affecting hiatus.Finally there is the finesse of the story-telling itself, where the meaning of actions reveals itself at the same pace as the pedestrian elderly couple, sometimes shockingly. For example, Anne asks to look at a photo album (to Georges' indifference) containing old pictures, presumably of family. Grudgingly he makes room on the breakfast table as she turns the pages. She has no reaction to the pictures. The experience is dry, as lost as her ability to complete day-to-day tasks. There's a terrifying but admirable lack of sentimentality here.The performances of Riva and Trintingant are beyond criticism. 8/10
Top-drawer Hitchcock. It's got everything you'd expect from the director - although he's sparing with his usual tropes of tension-building. The story is strong enough without it.From the start there's something different about this film, something that one only really encounters in Psycho. Following the ballroom titles (David Lynch cannot possibly have begun Mulholland Drive unaware of this tiny, recurring set piece) we meet the first protagonist Charlie (Joseph Cotten). He's in a state closer to that of Camus' disengaged fumeur Meursault than any other conventional leading man. The rest of the film pans out in this ambiguous way. Whomsoever Charlie meets or has to engage with, his manner is wretchedly bipolar - either violent or ebullient. His is the world-wearied end of the family that he goes to visit. This much steadier, morally ring-fenced world has it's own version of Uncle Charlie in the eldest daughter by the same name. Teresa Wright (a dead ringer for Ellen Page) has all his sensitivity but none of his front-line experience of life. The film charts her awakening.A brilliant, adult and humorous film I found myself laughing out loud and close to tears - the unsullied joy of the family at the opening is disarmingly unaffected. It's also one of the most sexually electric films I've seen in a very long time. 8/10
I enjoyed this film. I suspect that's because it's well-paced - we aren't exhausted by multiple near death experiences before we get to the flashy denouement. It's also got a lot of Star Wars echoing within it, you know, the 'now I am the master' business and an impressive Obi-Wan vs Darth Vader episode.The film has a digestible political concurrency as well. Imelda Staunton judges her vaguely New Labour officiousness/mad Mary Whitehouse act just right and David Yates sees no reason to play it any further than it appears in the lens. Other developments include some snogging and the welcome return of some familiar faces, particularly Gary Oldman and the superb Ralph Fiennes who gets a smidgeon more screen time than in the previous film.The central trio are unchanging so one looks elsewhere for the tweaks that make this an interesting romp. I really have to hand it to the SFX and editing departments. This was the magic show we've come to expect via the Lord of the Rings films and cut together with bang up to date action verve. One mustn't forget of course, that a lot of the magic on screen has come from the seemingly inexhaustible resource that is the head of JK Rowling.Two things that had me worried though. Is it me or does Michael Gambon's Dumbledore look like our current Archbishop of Canterbury, Dr Rowan Williams? And secondly, perhaps I ought not to note this but I couldn't help be distracted by Fiona Shaw's amazing legs. In so many ways a more grown up Harry Potter... 7/10
A strong, simply narrative with wholesome, once upon a time pro- and epi-logues and strong characters. This is the face value of David Lynch's celebrated Blue Velvet, a whodunnit-style thriller set in suburban 'Lumbertown' in middle-America.Of course, what the newcomer cannot be prepared for is the intermittent spasms of Lynch's Id and the increasingly bizarre conceits, twists and visitors to the plot. For all that Blue Velvet is an erotically charged rescue drama it's also a sort of hologram-movie; it's different depending on which angle one views it from.The alternative is a Freudian solipsism as black and sticky as Satrean viscosity. The film's opening technicolour bliss is interrupted twice. First - with dramatic realism - by a man's heart attack. Secondly - with Bunuelian surrealism (also involving severed body parts) - as his son symbolically undertakes emergency existential introspection upon going to visit the ailing man.The rest of the film may subsequently be read as a crisis in coming-of- age masculinity. A wholesome blonde, smiling in front of a church, is there for the taking but the son, Jeffrey, cannot resist the charm of a seedy-but-needy cabaret singer. He is confronted with virtually inexplicable cruelty but is prepared to engage in it himself. Even the design of the picture seems equivocal, with 1980s swagger and style encroaching on the basic late-1950s infrastructure. And Jeffrey wears an earring, completely at odds with his essentially upright trope.All the principal cast are excellent. However, many find this film particularly fascinating for the bulwark of evil, Frank Booth, played by the rasping, retching Dennis Hopper. It is a demonic performance but with occasional charm, entirely in keeping with the imagination- seduction of Lynch's vision and narrative. Formally utterly rigorous (particularly in its use of music, particularly Angelo Badalamenti's score) the film has a closed, optimistic ending which is especially moving for the opaque but 3-dimensional chambers of horror through which it must pass to get there. Obligatory cinema. 9/10
Perversely, this is a glorious film to look at. Meticulously lit and shot, it often seems like a montage of modern recreations of old master paintings. Certainly there is a clear correlation between the religious fervour of such canvases and the quiet political conviction of the inmates. Indeed, there is very little dialogue in Hunger at all, Steve McQueen achieving his narrative through image and gesture and keeping it all live with occasional spasms of violence. Good film-making, in other words.That said, the centre of the film is a 17-min single take in which Bobby Sands, the first victim of the hunger strike, tells a visiting priest of his intent. I like the way that this static scene contrasts with the rest of the film either side of it - the juxtaposition of talk and action (I was less enamoured of the dialogue of which I understood less than half, so thick were the accents).Michael Fassbender deserves credit for a fine turn as Sands. He undertakes that post-Christian-Bale-in-The-Machinist manner of starving oneself into character, which is necessary for this visually limpid film. Liam Cunningham as Father Moran is more than a trope for Sands' political statement and helps create genuine tension in that much of the central argument that I could understand. Laurels for Sean Bobbitt though for shooting the film - clearly a man who understands the low- light palette (to which his great after-dark sequences of Michael Winterbottom's Wonderland attest). Affecting without being political. 7/10
An interesting tale of America finding its feet. It's not a classic Western, although Ed Harris, who directs, deserves commendation for trying something original.It must be said that Harris is his own worst enemy in that which doesn't quite work to its potential. It's the classic actor-director situation, the woods being lost to the trees. The biggest detraction for me is the pacing - there are moments in which the film needs to breathe in and out, to absorb its audience into the aspect of its protagonists. Key in this regard is the sequence in which Allie (Zellweger) arrives in town, as seen by Everett. This is the love-triangle drama at the heart of the film and it needs something more pivotal than that which it is afforded (actually, I think Harris knows this but fails to conjure it).Yes, the film has this rather peculiar escalation of moral accumulation - but above this is the love triangle of Virgil (Harris), Everett and Allie. Allie's love has meaning, ramifications but is fickle, conditional. Everett is unquestioningly devoted but impotent in the way a woman can only be. Mortensen plays his role perfectly - terse but not without intellectual depth. Harris manages a pretty good characterisation too, well poised between the hardy male expediency and the cracks of middle-aged vulnerability. Irons is, in the same way, a slippery opportunist. Perhaps Harris had intended that you couldn't quite be assured of the steadfastness of any one bar Everett: this is the film's strength but also it's Achilles' heel. 6/10
I really enjoyed this film even though my expectation wasn't high. It does have casual grotesqueries which I disliked and the German high command casting is as convincing as the history-bending finale, i.e. not at all. And yet Tarantino gives us a characteristic romp through tense, unpredictable set pieces. The script is fat but not as bloated as in the Grindhouse double bill - the dialogue keeps us on the rack rather than distracting from it.The casting is probably the most curious, hit-and-miss affair of the film. Christopher Waltz proves something of a miracle, utterly charming and unquestionably evil, the very coinage of Gestapo pestilence given the film's comic undercurrent. Mélanie Laurent's Shosanna is very good as well. Along the way I enjoyed Fassbender and Kruger. Yet the Basterds themselves seemed anonymous, even at the violent denouement when they might have been expected to come into their own. Brad Pitt is a fine screen presence but a relatively weak actor here.The film is two and a half hours long but it felt like a shorter matinée. There are some bits that could have benefited from being montage-contracted like others, but actually I really rather wanted more. A nice surprise. 7/10
Richard Donner really does know how to fill a screen to fill an auditorium. Lethal Weapon, so successful that it became four films over ten years, is two things that one doesn't read from the tagline: a buddy movie and a Mel Gibson vehicle.Riggs lives an existentially toxic cocktail of loneliness and dealing with bad guys and consequently gets transferred out to work with an old-timer, Murtaugh, who just wants to get down to being a family man. Despite the inevitable early suspicions, a homicide too close to Murtaugh's heart and his own tolerance towards the wild but gifted Riggs means the two come together. A routine but well-prepared action movie follows culminating in an unforgettable, emotional showdown outside Murtaugh's home into which Riggs has become adopted.Lethal Weapon kicked off at about the same time as Die Hard. Whilst generically and narratively only distantly related, the relatively young but wisecrackingly weary antihero was an instant success in both. Danny Glover is clearly a straight guy for Gibson's manic, physical Riggs, masculine, entertaining but pitiful. It's a winning formula and performance. 7/10
I struggled to get a handle on this sci-fi romance. Is it the meeting of Damon & Blunt's cleft chins? Perhaps, in a reversal of the postmodern revisiting of the 1960s in Mad Men this is Roger Sterling (John Slattery)'s tinkering with the future?No, really, it's just another tepid Philip K Dick adaptation. At its time of release (this week) it's fashionable to say its Bourne (the Damon bit) meets Inception (the magic realism bit). However it bears resemblance to others too - Vanilla Sky (noumenal New York), Minority Report (more Dick), The Thomas Crown Affair (hats), The Matrix (predetermination) and even Eternal Sunshine Of The Spotless Mind (sci- fi romance) to name a few (oh, go on then - Orson Welles' The Trial is also in there).Like many mongrel films it ends up being less than the sum of its parts. Though Damon has charisma and John Slattery injects some realist ennui into his deus in machina role, damp, compliant phone-ins from Emily Blunt and Terence Stamp shackle the show. The shortcomings of the cast are entirely of a part with the production - the film doesn't know what it wants to be. It tries to be all of the above, jumping from a scene of *fun* through a door marked *thrills* and then on to another door marked *romance* without backing itself up. Diverting 5/10
Nicholas Hytner has a great track record for screen adaptations of plays (The Madness Of King George won the sort of awards for which this film was nominated). In this film about the 17th century Salem witch trials, commonly regarded as a critique of McCarthyism and the HUAC, the past infidelities of a man come back to ruin him and his wife.Paul Scofield is the stony-faced, implacable agent of proto-religious non-logic (a super role in Miller's play as he's frighteningly plausible most of the time). It's the cold-hearted centre of this tough film. The victims of his assumed position of rule are husband and wife John and Elizabeth Proctor given impeccable, nervy performances by Day-Lewis and Joan Allen. Winona Ryder is the truly possessed villager, if only with a deadly, souring, unrequited love for John. Powerful stuff. 7/10
It's good. It's difficult to withstand the early entrapment of Lohan by the plastics - one watches her walking into their schemes cringing behind a cushion. Once the drama gets going though it's pretty slick. The film moves very fast indeed in places and there's a careful balance between the inflated comedy of a whole roster of stereotypical high-school characters and trying to be too earnest. I was especially tickled by the dry humour: Tim Meadows in particular delivers bladed asides Ryvita-dry.Lindsay Lohan is thoroughly entertaining - all her assets, patently not limited to acting, are put to good use. All the support is excellent in as much as is required. The plot isn't exactly striking out and there are some horribly contrived set pieces... a 'ladies' bonding sequence in the gym is, though typically well-handled, pretty cloying. But it's all good matinée chowder. 5/10
Any fictional account of a vocational occupation is risky. Even more so than the generic humdrum of working in an office, films about a specific business are likely to disappoint the initiated and mislead the newcomer. In this respect Quartet manages itself well, staying a step removed from opera. Instead it makes its point by the cross pollination of disciplines, throwing in stag actors, music hall entertainers and orchestral musicians. It becomes a showbusiness film.Furthermore, debut director Dustin Hoffmann has stumbled on some of the elite of our acting stable. Once Maggie Smith joins the ensemble, the performances of the rest of the eponymous Quartet come into focus. Mercifully, Billy Connolly abandons the excessive potty mouth, and the tepid Tom Courtenay becomes a fortified spirit. The find is Pauline Collins, until recently an anonymous national treasure, who is quite brilliant as the scatty Cissy. Her every appearance is a source of good humour without descending into facile comedy.Inevitably it's a patchy debut behind the camera. The opening ensemble sequence is a case in point of Hoffmann's vignetted style, which can often leave the narrative a bit patchy. I kept watching largely because of the galvanising presence of Maggie Smith and the joy of Collins. I also found myself transfixed by the less fictional members of the cast, real former musicians. A roll call in the credits tie these obscurities to the more recognisable faces with powerful economy. An awkward if rewarding film 5/10
A thin but zippy and competently glossed remake. The leads make it. Jamie Lee Curtis is an underrated Hollywood figure who seems preternaturally capable of becoming an energetic teenager for the better part of 90 mins. Lindsay Lohan has the composure to reign in her own natural charisma at given moments to convincingly fulfil her part of the loony personality swap. In short, it works.It's in the nature of a film such as this that the clichés queue up to get ticked off. In fact its more than typical, it's actually necessary, since the gags are about lampooning age-group trappings. This is quite nicely offset with the secondary characters, particularly the Harry-and- his-Grandpa relationship like an parallel Werther's Original commercial. Mark Harmon's fiancé to Tess never gets in the way and director Mark Waters keeps the whole thing moving on. 4/10
You might be forgiven for thinking that Doug Liman's playing a sort of Greengrass catch up. Fair Game is something of a political corollary to Green Zone and is propelled by the same righteous fire. It also employs the same, now-hackneyed shaky-cam.Unlike Green Zone, Fair Game deals simply in the surface facts of the story over a period of three years, heavily compressed into the 90 mins of the film. Everything is over-affected. There's a fair bit of blonde steel from Naomi Watts and a lot of priggish shouting from Sean Penn as Palme's husband, Joe Wilson. The politics aren't investigated or explained beyond the Bush-administration-as-bad-guys stuck record. The hand-held aesthetic isn't a reactive viewpoint to the emotional dynamism of a scene, just the puller flapping the lens.This last point is a shame as it's otherwise rather well-filmed. The locations seems authentic. The redoubtable Bruce McGill turns up to show how real acting is done in the smallest of bursts. We get the message. It's just all a bit old hat. 4/10
I'm not in a position to comment on this film in relation to the Douglas Sirk genre-titles of the 50s to which this film tugs a fistful of forelock. Little matter. Todd Haynes has created a striking film, neither beautiful nor vulgar but demanding attention.Julianne Moore's unimpeachable suburban housewife Cathy Whitaker is pushed off-centre when she discovers her husband's secret homosexuality. This is a triple-device: Haynes uses it as dramatic ordinance; it's apparent immorality also opens the door to Cathy to try to steady herself in an unconventional fashion; and Haynes takes the opportunity to 'remaking' a 50s genre film to actually include themes on-screen that would have been inconceivable at the time.Moore is marvellous, nicely pitched. Denis Haysbert is a little over-earnest here - I also thought that Denis Quaid is rather uncomfortable which is a shame as I hold both these actors in high esteem. Above all though Violas Davis, as the housekeeper Sybil, shines in a role diametrically opposed to but no less well filled than in the contemporaneous remake of Solaris. 6/10
Todd Field is his own worst enemy in this carefully conceived but imperfectly rendered film about suburban middle-class contradictions. There's plenty of humour to offset some ghoulish home truths and toe-curlingly awkward oxymorons. This is not the first time that Kate Winslet gives a fine performance as the young housewife teetering at the edge of a mid-life minefield, although I got the feeling that it was over directed somewhat. Winlset's isn't the only fine performance either - Jackie Earle Haley's insipid sexually dysfunctional loner manages to seem normal at moments when one is beginning to feel comfortable with his baddie status. Patrick Wilson is competent, charming support but I thought the children often get the better of him. An out-and-out mistake though is the useless, sporadic voice-over, a total distraction. It's a difficult film to watch for reasons beyond the content but probably worth the effort: certainly one to have worked through ahead of the recently released and more warmly received Revolutionary Road. 5/10
I've only actually wept with laughter at a feature twice and this was the first time. The brilliance of this gag-saturated film is momentum. I first saw it as a nine-year-old and so couldn't possibly have understood a number of the reference jokes but the natural rhythm of the punchlines was good as wit itself.It must have been such fun to be on set. If a line isn't funny, its meant to be setting the next gag up. Jim Abrahms and David Zucker must have had the easiest job in the world - instead of having to encourage the funnies, a notoriously counterproductive role for a director, they could put their effort into keeping things focused. Additionally the principals do almost everything deadpan, notably the subsequently putty-faced Leslie Nielsen. A gem. 8/10
It's occasionally formulaic and the ending's known in advance. But another classic of British underdog drama-comedy is assured with a typical combination of ebullient acting and homegrown pride for the episode. This is a film that will travel across the pond with ease, full of the conviction and style of the 1960s without all the Union Jack/mini cooper trappings.The proto-feminism at its heart is neither threateningly radical or tiresomely hippie but strangely genderless. Sally Hawkins' Rita is a pitch perfect lead, the distillation of giggly-girl roles for Mike Leigh and the long-sufferingly-espoused counterweight to the mild hedonism of An Education. It's this that fights through the Full Monty-grade set pieces to really convince the viewer. In this she's joined by the discreetly exquisite Geraldine James and the humour-veiled fire of Bob Hoskins.Danny Mays, usually a favourite of mine, is adequate in his role as the husband caught between the tectonic plates of cultural change at his doorstep - in the same but opposite way I think the huge presence of Richard Schiff is almost too much in a film where the tonal emphasis is more on pluck than the gravitas of people consciously undertaking to change their world. Miranda Richardson has the balance just right; other important actors (Rupert Graves, Rosamund Pike, Roger Lloyd-Pack and Kenneth Cranham) excel in the same ensemble fashion as Geraldine James. Two hours gone by in a feelgood flash. 7/10
A chilling film with a fluid moral centre. This is a very interesting film to have seen in the wake of Hitchcock's Psycho (currently on re-release) and Michael Haneke's The White Ribbon (released last year): the former is also a disturbing thriller which demands pity for its murderous protagonist; the latter an elliptical tale alluding to the dank origins of the Third Reich.Lang's film opens with a horrible extended, insinuating sequence in which a child is murdered - and, it is consequently mentioned, sexually abused in the process. As unequivocally foul though this crime is painted, so too is the subsequently paranoid-to-mindless actions of the public in reaction to it. Lang's satire stretches further though, as the voice of reason that steps in to focus the mob's hysteria is that of the criminal underworld. The parallel is clear - in a situation of civic instability, there is choice between the law and the outlaw. Indeed the intense final tableau even has the leader, Schränker, presiding over the bilious show trial wearing in a proto-Gestapo leather trench-coat. It comes as no surprise that M was banned by the Nazis three years later.It has been noted that this film is the first to employ the idea of the leitmotif (Beckert's whistling of Grieg). This I don't believe - in exactly the same way that I had always been led to believe that a dollied shot at the beginning of Citizen Kane, travelling through the skylight of a building, was the first such instance of such an impossible shot. Not at all. Lang does it in order to introduce a police meeting in this film. There are other interesting technical moments scattered about the film, many readily recognisable as part of an established school of German expressionism and the latter shots of Lorre in the loft sheds of the office building are this extreme chiaroscuro at its most effective.Above all, the film is terribly sad and its troubling irresolution nicely underlined by the final shot; grief is all that comes from what we discover during the horror and suspense of the story. An admirable and unlovely film 7/10
It might seem churlish not to rate a film which has such an Olympian acting standard across the board but David Mamet's screenplay looks and feels staged. There's none of the strangely insistent claustrophobia that Giovanni Ribisi encounters in the office of The Boiler Room, an otherwise inferior feature.What an opportunity to see the acting roster crammed up against one another though. Pacino bookends the drama with a manipulative, Latin charm; inbetween Jack Lemmon, Alan Arkin and Ed Harris go toe to toe with Kevin Spacey and on-form Alec Baldwin like some sort of eve-of-battle-neurotic GI punch up. Lemmon particularly tears smalls strips in the viewer's empathy all sinewy with desperation and fear. A fascinating endurance test. 5/10
It doesn't really have the same lightness of tough, or even the panache of its famous successor, but it's from the same stable. It's also more linear, moving from one remarkable episode to the next as the lovers go on the run.The cast is very good and absorb the spirit of their charismatic roles, particularly Slater and Arquette as the fugitive inamoratas. Memorable as is the face of between Dennis Hopper (as Slater's Father) and Christopher Walken's horribly real mobster, this film's turn is upon the romance of the title. Slater ostensible callow Calrence goes to eliminate Alabama's pimp so that she can be with him. For a more repellent vice baron than Gary Oldman's Drexl Spivey one has to travel outside even Tarantino's roster of foul and fearsome freaks. 6/10
The Hunger Games is another book adaptation. The film cannot possibly do justice to the book, given that the latter half of the film concerns the pubescent cast murdering each other. I found the staging of such violence not only upsetting but distasteful. In a literary form such events are tempered by the imagination of the reader. In a film, whatever cuts insisted on by the BBFC (in the UK), they are portrayed and I struggled with the ethics of that.One might ask why. The Battle Royale films have a similar conceit, as does William Golding's Lord Of The Flies. This is in fact the crux of the matter. Battle Royale presents not only the fascistic adults as caricature but also the children. The students are heightened, more Anime than adolescent. The satire is more serious in Peter Brook Golding adaptation but none the less focused for it, and couches the perpetration of violence in highly pertinent terms.In Hunger Games we are given scant exposition or background to the political future fiction in which the story is couched. Those fluent with the books may be better informed but I simply found myself looking at frightened youngsters caught in a Wachowski-'realist' edition of the Besson-Gaultier imagining of the future. There was no satire to be had - the uncomfortable proximity of the audience in the mise-en-scene or us as the metaphoric voyeurs seemed all but abandoned. No Truman Show here, no Running Man and made all the worse for it being rather more serious than both with children as the protagonists.There would be more substance to it if it was a short sharp shock, if I had been trying to catch my breath as each inevitable but no more believable horror was flashed up on the screen. Instead we have to endure almost an hour of preamble before the Games themselves begin. Charlie Brooker's Black Mirror is a shorter, funnier, more robust and effective film in which no one dies and I recommend it as a replacement for this rather ridiculous excuse for dramatic satire. The fact that Hunger Games is so professionally slick is actually the final nail in its own coffin. 3/10
A psychological reading of this film might suggest that it's about grief. Then one discovers that its part of a series in which Kieslowski wants to engage with the idea of freedom. Well, clearly there's tension between these two ideas. Where grief is a static process, Kieslowski's Julie uses the bereavement as a chance to move away from her life. Yet just as grief may prove impossible to overcome Julie cannot wrest herself from her past which at first chases her physically and then spectrally. Grief or freedom - neither is absolutely possible and peace through management is the only option. All this is in relief to a dreadful situation in which absolute freedom is attained but at a cost: Julie's mother has escaped her past through Alzheimer's.These are the themes of the film, relentlessly but poetically investigated. The performances are good. The colour symbolism isn't as obvious as it threatens to be. I particularly like the dissolves as the indelible music that either Julie or her husband were writing overcomes her at moments where escape of the past is impossible. Zbigniew Preisner's music itself is the plastic weak link of the film. 7/10
A slick, winning thriller transposing two 'son et lumière' classics for a genre-friendly American audience. Travolta is thoroughly engaging as the fleapit soundman who accidentally defibrilates his aimless life when he records the tyre blow out of the title. Nancy Allen plays her feckless whore in the early eighties tradition of The Shining's Shelley Duvall where the female lead - representative of the film's general overdeterminism - is at the mercy of everything else. John Lithgow is an effective, entertaining baddie.It's an engrossing, satisfying but shallow film. Credit is due da Palma for making the basic ingredients of its predecessors available to all. Yet the success of such a genre film rests on their being little equivocation; the audience can't be left thinking 'whodunnit'. Consequently the third act holds little surprises. But it's none the worse for it. 6.5/10
An absolutely riveting film. The central, unreal performance of Falconetti is gripping enough in itself. The clerical ensemble girning about her is equally convincing though. Where her Jeanne is an awe- inspiring study of spiritual ecstasy in conflict with mortal fear, the toad-carrion of Medieval French Catholicism are played deviously, without compassion.Contradictions are what the drama is about. Falconetti is clearly older than the 19 years Jeanne estimates to be her own age. Yet, she quickly seems even younger, eyes glazed with grace, the tears wrung out of her by the constrictions of sure faith in a room full of wise men. 'God is wiser' is one of the few lines with which she counters the charge of impertinence. Dreyer's camera moves about her, the gaze of the council like the different trajectories of the arrows that slew St Sebastian. She is held in almost permanent, claustrophobic headshot. She cries and cries. For me her great technical achievement is in recanting her confession and condemning herself to death. There's no manic release or catharsis (though she does return from the state of delirium in which she signed the confession) and she remains feverishly afraid. It's no wonder that a Potemkin-style military put-down follows the immolation.I saw this screening of the film with a new score by contemporary/pop composers Adrian Utley and Will Gregory. Only roughly conceived to synchronise with the film, it was effective in blending the transcendental with the cruel realities of the drama. The film is a unique masterpiece. 9/10
It's Mel Gibson doing what he does best, high melodrama. He has some serious competition though as Martin Campbell plays the narrative very close to his chest and Ray Winstone's not-quite-doppelgänger to Gibson is the better study in restraint. Indeed Campbell achieves the most in this film, drip feeding us the story in the manner of a well-paced thriller but also managing the parallel morality play rather well.That said, there are a smattering of loose ends and a fair bit of old- fashioned hokum. There are clearly some late decisions about the narrative apparent in the edit too, handbrake turns that Campbell could never justify. Additionally, the support acting is rather mixed: Huston does his thing, which is OK but my pleasure in seeing Jay O. Sanders on screen (great in JFK) rapidly turned to horror. Not as 'cool' as Payback - it never tried to be that - but I preferred the former. 5/10
Richard Burton's too old, Clint Eastwood's shoehorned in with some sort of spurious backstory, the only women have large breasts and serve beer, the German baddies are preternaturally blonde, the body count has to be done in powers of 10 and after many years the most memorable thing about Where Eagles Dare is the sub-Bartokian score by Ron Goodwin. What a mess, no?No. It's a romp from start to chilling finish, with some wonderful vistas (despite very clumsy picture overlay), grand plot twists and a thrilling cable car punch-up. Ideal for a cold winter's evening in front of the telly. 8/10
In retrospect, an extremely unlikely hit for Frears - and a most difficult film to actually pull off. I don't mean the period affectations necessarily, nor the design trappings (Milos Forman had created something of a template for claustrophobic, character-infested classical-period films with Amadeus). Rather the film revolves around small increments of love as differentiated from lust, and the small, gravitationally mutating inflections inbetween.Close, Malkovich and (less notably) Pfeiffer really fulfill the faith that a straightforward Frears account of the novel puts to them. Close gives the Marquise de Merteuil a delicate line between acrid delight and paranoid hysteria - but find no need to go all out bonkers when its crossed. The explosive danger of tethered lust is best played by Malkovich playing Valmont as youthful only in need. Still a career best. There's a nice cameo from Uma Thurman too. 7/10
I found the spoof trailer for 'Machete' more interesting than this picture. Rodriguez can't decide how far he can push 'earnest' or real acting on his goreathon and has consequently totally overdone it. There's no irony and the odd pulpish asides have no energy. They're like the exploding pustules slicked across the film - messy and beside the point.Rose McGowan is too mainstream looking for this role - which is a backhanded compliment in a way as I found her very capable. I will give Rodriguez credit for getting a top-notch makeup team on board though. Through all the echt-grindhouse scratch-effect (should be affect) print the blistering, oozing and retching are all too real. But there's no story to be had. 2/10
Anne Hathaway's first feature and a Julie Andrews Disney comedy. This bubblegum-blistered bop-a-pic has very little else to recommend it, with the possible exception of Hector Elizondo reprising his background fixer from other Pygmalion parodies, like Pretty Woman. There's a real paucity in good acting from the high school support cast and the adults are recklessly awful as well. What did Sandra Oh think she was doing?Alas, Julie Andrews has played this one all wrong herself. All the straight bits come across perfectly well (an English accent = European aristocracy, no actual acting required) but the stylised/comic moments are foul. Hathaway is the saving grace of the picture and disproportionately deserves the career she has subsequently enjoyed, given that this is a saccharine mess. She's perfectly good at the slapstick but tellingly she's measured and convincing in the key dramatic moments. 2/10
A super, classic romantic comedy. It's a pretty straightforward A-list matinée romance; the added twist being that Rome - place and people - is as big a star on the screen.Doing so much on location in a busy, Latin capital city must have been quite a gamble for Wyler. However, the vitality and verismo of filming al fresco really pays off. Rome is brilliantly shot, be it from a set position or from the back of a truck, tracking the couple on the Vespa. Yet everything is incorporated, nothing inserted. The public often stop to stare at the spectacle of the filming but the brisk pace of the story and the see-sawing between the characters and their magnificent backdrop takes one's eye off the necessarily clunky cuts.Even the local actors are all excellent, from the concierge to the carabinieri. Both Peck and Hepburn are equally compelling - there's a lot of spontaneity to their performances which not only serves their characters but also operates as a part of the New Wave feel to the movie that the location street-filming suggests. Eddie Albert's supporting role as Peck's photographer is also first class.A real achievement. Panoramic yet intimate, bursting with a youthful vigour despite (because of?) the hoch-formality of one's position and the grinding cynicism of the other. It's a exhilarating story well told in script, pacing and picture. Marvellous. 9/10
Trouble in Paradise, a Lord of the Flies meets Goonies horror - it's quite difficult to pin this film down. Roughly I think of it as a broad three act rite-of-passage film that charts a bad trip: the danger of initiation; the ecstasy of the trip; the sour, paranoid come-down. Ibiza the opera, if you like.Danny Boyle, it's turned out, is a consistently first class British filmmaker. The Beach is no aberration, despite widely downbeat notices. Squalor, heat, beauty and sex all make it onto the screen without having to pop up in the script first. Leo DiCaprio is excellent, a very intense actor. Virginie Ledoyen is an ideal foil for DiCaprio, an enticing young woman but capable of more than pouting. Robert Carlyle injects the danger and drama and, of course, I love seeing Tilda Swinton on screen. However, once the chasing starts the film's effectively over. 5/10
Cassell tries to save it. Like all the best European baddies he's quite a character, oiling the basic blackmail plot with a slick of humour. Clive Owen weighs it down though - he doesn't look thrilled to be there - and Jennifer Aniston is underused (underwritten, actually).Director Mikael Håfström has gone for a print off a Hitchcock model, by his own admission. However, there isn't really any building of tension into set pieces - there's just ricocheting from one nastiness to the next (and twists don't count). The opening half an hour is laboured.What's to like? I think it's a rather good story and the script's OK - it's just lacking bite from both cast and capo. 5/10
A pretty stock thriller that effectively serves as a Shia LeBeouf vehicle. It's no bad thing either - LeBeouf is the Tom Cruise of the noughties: entertaining, charismatic, good looking... young. The support of Sarah Roemer and Aaron Yoo is B-string in comparison and although cast-iron Hollywood names in Carrie-Anne Moss and David Morse prop up the bill, their roles are entirely functional.The script gives a fresh re-hash of a suburban slasher thriller, splicing it with Rear Window and a seasoning of American Beauty. It's well-edited too, 'did I really see that' pacing and splicing. Director Caruso has made good use of up-to-date technology without making it overbearing. If only he could have made more of the Freudian opening within the rest of the film. 6.5/10
Does just what you'd expect. Mark Wahlberg though, hmm... I don't get what all the fuss is about. Tidal micturation greeted his is-it-isn't-it-pastiche performance in The Departed and now this. I judge anti-heroes by the criteria that moral truth and justice are grudgingly accepted by the principal. This means Harrison Ford and Colin Farrell check out but Wahlberg doesn't. He can't modulate his masculinity intellectually as he struts it phsyically. He's too eager to cower internally. On-screen he is still a boy.Good support from Michael Peña (who looks ambiguously Middle Eastern, a notable characteristic in such a mainstream flick) and Kate Mara, despite suffering a 'would you now get into your contractual-obligation-bra-top-Ms-Mara?' moment. Danny Glover has an against-type role and does it justice. The story's basic. It looks OK on-screen. 5/10
It's impossible to work out exactly what the purpose of Zero Dark Thirty might be. There are likely to be more conspiracy theories than all the double think that makes the film so tense (and sad). Is this a final act of propaganda in the Afghanistan campaign? Is this an attempt by the US to explain its actions, going into Pakistan without telling that country? Is it an act of contrition over the possible use of torture?There are many questions and the easiest way to deal with them - the way in which Kathryn Bigelow deals with them - is to just make the film. Even in the fact from which the fiction is imprinted, things are designed to be obscure. Who pulled the trigger than took 'UBL' down? We don't know, we won't know and it doesn't matter as much as the formative fact. What I can tell you is that this is a step up from The Hurt Locker. The storytelling is focused and, whilst in lockstep with the real footage and reconstructions of its timeline, remains in its own world. The contentious torture sequences are honest and elicit the best part of Chastain's fine performance, as she walks into each grubby cell partially glazed, belligerent, willing herself on with professional tunnel vision and anger.The final sequence is well done. In one respect it is exceptional; this breach of the final fortress is mundane, as muted as the rifle barrels of the special force team's guns. The greatest violence of the film is sequestered on the small screens in rooms, relaying the actual fact of the events of the past decade, the facts not in dispute, facts of death, fear, ignorance and great violence to no end. 8/10
Requiem For A Dream is a pompous, partially inaccurate title for this movie. Luckily its an anomaly in a successful project which tells the familiar tale of the addict's downfall with considerable style.Though two of the characters have aspirations to start a business, the Dream of the title refers to the hopes of a lonely, ageing Brooklyn resident, Sarah Goldfarb. Played with Oscar-nominated selflessness and ferocity by Ellen Burstyn, Sarah wants her son to be successful and happy. Failing that, she has a spiral staircase of depreciating hopes: grandchildren; a television appearance; weight loss. Where the edit- heavy, camera-dollied-to-actor abstraction of Aronofsky's style is already familiar from his first feature, Burstyn's portrayal of an ageing mother's barely- repressed disappointments are the core of this vision of narcotic dependence. Appropriately for the actress most famous for her work in The Exorcist, Burstyn manages to make us believe in the proximity and apparent reality of her demons (aided with one particularly imaginative sequence), never compromising either the terror or the point of her predicament. And that's before the heart- breaking scene where she enjoys the apex of her relationship with her son which famously broke the DoP. Clearly, it's worth seeing this film for her alone.Which is not to belittle the significant contribution of the others in the principal ensemble. Jared Leto is method-rigid in his performance of a wired young user, his aspirations brightening and clouding just like the weather. Jennifer Connelly internalises her highs and lows without loss of communication. Wayans is the least of the four (but this is more to do a half-hearted afterthought subplot with his own mother).Again (i.e. like Pi) Aronofsky's ideas reminded me of the dark, surreality-seep daydreaming of David Lynch, complete with eclectic soundtrack, which includes a surprising but effective selection of strangely automated, glassy-eyed music. Also (again) the narrative arc is traditional, intact. Seen with the warm period drama The Wackness this provides a sad but appropriate bookend to the 1990s. 7/10
The performances mitigate the disappointment of this attempt at a modern parable. What they can't do is patch over Jeff Nichols' less than rigorous film. The general sense of portent is in the content and dream-reality cross-cutting but not the tone. No amount of furrow-browed intensity from Michael Shannon is going to help elucidate the plastic clouds of computer generated birds that pop up, nor the cartoon storm backdrops. Exactly how the fragile world of men trying to hold onto their jobs in a shrinking market and the turbulent visions that pepper Shannon's never-off-screen, first person account of the world dovetail is not even signposted; the place of a working man's neurosis barely investigated. The end is crass, patronising. 3/10
As with many computer-animated films this is a sharply observed visual comedy grafted over hilarious voice-over. For about ten minutes. Then, amazingly, they run out of ideas. All the bee jokes are front-loaded and the film can't survive either on it's script - which has been left quite open for improvising - or on Seinfeld/Zellweger riffing - because that's a bit weak too.I was waiting (along with 40 easily bored children, who didn't get the Pomp & Circumstance joke when I did, to my embarrassment) for some drama to cut in, rather like the revenge or rescue plots of the Toy Stories. The writing team are keen not to get in too deep and stick to the surface gags. Though these revive every so often, it's not particularly satisfying over 90 mins. 4/10
An epic picture that zips by faster than a speeding bullet (etc.) A funny, slightly camp, rabble-rousing hagiograph which even fits in significant allusions to Christian mythology and the inflated dangers of the Cold War.Lester could hardly have failed in his remit. The nobility of Reeves' Christ-in-trunks Superhero is brought to a premature Calvary through his love for the echt-New Yorker Margot Kidder. Terence Stamp's General Zod manages to bend even the script to his will; he fights with the endlessly entertaining Gene Hackman for the acting laurels. The marvel of the special effects is that (again), for all that they are rather basic they serve a narrative purpose rather than one-of-itself. The streets of the Big Apple shrink down into town-sized pockets where extras come into their own. We have a believable insurrection during the inevitable super-showdown, as the crowd get Superman's back, a sequence strong enough to re-emerge in Spiderman 2 twenty-four years later.But the crowning glory of this film is it score. John Williams was at the peak of his alchemist's powers as the 70s turned into the 80s. Here, as in the first - and as in Star Wars IV moving to V - he turns a good film into something iconic, indelible and important. 8/10Framescourer's comment follows viewing the Richard Donner Edition (2006) on DVD, although it reflects the experience of watching the (better) theatrical edition.
At this, its point of release, Monsters is generally going to be seen as a triumph. Working with a crew of four and a budget ten times - hey, likely as not 100 times - less than that which would be written down for a similar picture (District 9 was $30m, Cloverfield $25m, The War of The Worlds $130m) the film succeeds in a similar level of latter-day sci-fi credibility. It's amazing that commercially available software produces a visual result that is at the very least on a par with that which costs much more.Apart from a micro-crew and various guerrilla-type filming tactics, part of the savings come from taking an audience in an expected direction and then twisting away from the expected reveal. The film is a much more meditative essay on the well-worn genre of extra-terrestrial shock- thriller than the formal succession of episodes would have you think. By the end, I was thinking about the title. Who are the monsters? The film could be said to set out to satirise the injustices and impracticalities of the porous Mexico-US border. In fact its less specific than that, though not less thoughtful. Is the profiteering border-crossing tout a monster? Are the chancer-mercenaries, camping out in the 'infected zone' monsters? Is the pushy-protective father of the girl a monster?Are the protagonists monsters? They can certainly act a bit. Given the itinerant, improvised mature of their work I was won over by Whitney Able and Scoot McNairy. As for Gareth Edwards, well, this is even more impressive than Paranormal Activity and deserves to be professionally recognised as such. The film is a little flaccid: having promised and then subverted the expected action he probably needs to be more focused on his actual purposes. It's thought-provoking whether by chance or design nonetheless. 6.5/10
One of Shame's great strengths is that it leads one to ask questions. Steve McQueen's follow-up to Hunger concerns a sex addict, although it takes half the film to reach this understanding. Relationships with women that don't involve media or hard cash are also equivocal, not statements of the way he is with women but asking questions of the audience about what these relationships appear to be.Many of the questions put to Michael Fassbender's Brandon come from his sister Sissy (Carey Mulligan). The biggest question is more like some sort of dare; literally half the scenes the two characters share have one or both of them partially naked, with electric physical potential hovering somewhere in between. With Sissy's outré behaviour and Brandon's suppressed habits the imbalance is always out in the open, creating drama, asking the questions. The biggest is, of course, what is the history of their own relationship. It hardly seems to matter.Clearly Shame is an intriguing film. It can also be rather bleak. It's also rather beautiful. McQueen pursues the long-take scrutiny of the lens' gaze that was the centrepiece of Hunger, notably in a long tracking shot as Brandon goes for a jog to escape his flat being used as a bordello (but he can't outrun his own conscience, d'you see?). McQueen isn't averse to some visual melodrama either, popping a yellow and purple angel-figure into the palindromic subway scenes that bookend the film. The partnership between the director and his two-time leading man, two powerful presences working idiosyncratically but in tandem recalls Scorsese/de Niro. A tough but substantial film. 7/10
I admire Michael Moore. He gets angry about clear injustices and does something about it by making his uniquely stylised documentaries. You will laugh, you will cry. No, really, you will laugh and cry - it can be powerful stuff.The problem with Michael Moore's brand of polemic/satire is twofold. The first, for which he's hardly to blame, is that his subject matter dates fast. The film is clearly a decentred mosaic of targets: Bush is the most familiar; the banking crisis and the 700bn dollar "coup-d'etat" bail-out are treated more as symptomatic than as central. The second is that his style is hectoring razzmatazz - in other words, propaganda. Whether or not he has good reason not to like something, it's the manner in which he discusses it, rather than the reason why that should be the case, which is the principal focus. I often stared at a screen whirling in not only unsupported but actually meaningless stat- graphics emphasising the badness of the bad guys.A lot of background work has gone into this film. Contemporary footage is intercut - at speed - with a great deal of archive and web-based video and stills material. You can give yourself over to this, roaring with laughter at Ronald Reagan's back catalogue of film roles preparing him for Republican government or agog at a company whose memo calmly notes that an employee is worth more to them dead than alive. It's thoroughly entertaining. I just wish that more work had gone into making this a temperate argument for the benefits of socialism or the guilt of its subjects. 6/10
A sharply edited, quick witted and fairly exhaustive schtick-flick. In the pantheon of gag-a minute comedies, Police Academy can lay claim to being one of the better features. Pressed into service as a serial social irritant, Steve Guttenburg carries the film as the cheeky charmer. The grit to his oyster is the pompous G.W. Bailey as Harris and the principal pantomimics are completed with the mad commandant Eric Lassard of George Gaynes.Crime prevention is very much a side issue for the 'cadets', with the resolution of personal imperfections that brought the misfits here in the first place being the stock material. There's also all manner of vice to spice it all up and feed a natural gravitation towards toilet humour. Apart from Guttenberg and Bailey, no one acts particularly well but it doesn't matter. 6/10
A dense but rewarding film. It has a terrific performance from Owen, poised (in 1998) to become the international A-lister that he now is. He has to play three roles - two in shot, Jack and the emergent Jake, protagonist of the book Jack's writing - and a third, disembodied Jack in voice-over. The film follows his struggle with fatalism (or chance) and grand design. Whether as a writer, a croupier or an observer he likes to be in control, risk free.Making sure this isn't quite how it works is a pretty solid list of fine support actors. Alex Kingston turns up with an impressively rendered South African accent and more sex appeal than the distilled accumulation of all her work on ER. Potent stuff. Gina McKee plays a conventional love interest without simply being wallpaper; David Hamilton runs the Casino with an ambiguity that mirrors Jack's.Mike Hodges engineers tight, claustrophobic shots and choppy editing. Everything about the film is up close and suffocating: shots in cars; Jack's tiny flat; stairwells and copulating couples in toilet cubicles. Owen's Jack is neither repelled by nor engages with this proximity. It only affects him if it foists itself upon him violently or he chooses to deal with it. Whether or not he actually has a choice is the point of this entertaining film. 7/10
George Falconer has a plan to finish his own life through grief for the loss of his lover. The film looks at his life past and present over the course of a day: the self-contradicting reasons why it's at once too good either to bear having lost or to forego.This seems like a fairly straightforward premise for a drama. The difference here though is that George's lover was a man. Given the 1960s period backdrop, which Tom Ford has meticulously re-created for the film, this is of the utmost significance, re-informing the nature of the relationships between the characters and re-aligning the bias of the film's purpose. It is the bittersweet nature of homosexuality, at the outset of the American Civil Rights movement, which subsumes the basic drama of grief and love: it is what the film's about.The film looks good. A handsome and well-dressed cast are nicely framed but dwelt upon to the point of being fetishised. Beyond this, Ford hasn't got the first idea how to create drama or even purpose. Bleeding from filtered semi-monochrome into (proto-Sirk) saturated technicolour at the introduction of people who provide him with stimulating distraction is cheap and not developed. Neither is his wistful script at all gripping, with limp gestures for ideas that simply provide text for the shot. There may be clues buried in literary references - Huxley, Kafka, Capote - but they're plastic symbols which do not bubble up into the dialogue.There has already been Oscar chat concerning Firth's fairly against-type turn as the grieving George but let's stop that right here. Firth is good - professional - but I wasn't at all convinced. His behaviour on screen lacks a personal conviction. He's committed to serving his director alright but it's awkward. There are moments of levity and joy during the film but Firth does not carry them whilst wrestling with his loss or his dreadful decision to end that struggle. The case for seeing Genova in which Firth's (straight) widower acts on his grief for the wonderful Michael Winterbottom is now pressing. Beside him, neither Nicholas Hoult (who needs lessons in transatlantic annunciation) nor Julianne Moore (who could give them) add much. Even the opening titles music of Abel Korzeniowski had paled to the unmemorable by the close.A tepid project all round then whose sensuous surface is pretty much the extent of its worth. 3/10
A zippy children's CG-animation which plays fast, loose and tangled with the idea of the urbane and the feral. Consequently there are all sorts of funny glosses, i.e. at some point an animal is sufficiently far down the food chain not to be invested with anthropomorphed consciousness - like a chick or a fish. I think the film deals with this perfectly well though. The lemurs are shown to be rather daft, lemming-like, and the minor cats at the top of the chain grouped in non-syllabic frenzy. Ultimately, the story about civilising the beast within holds.Really the whole exercise is an excuse for Ritalin-defiant slapstick, with extended pratfall sequences of impossible credibility. It's very fast and it's very funny. I don't go in for the song-and-dance routines shoehorned into these things for brand consolidation and marketing purposes but I do like playing spot the film reference, of which there are at least half a dozen. The voiceovers are fun - Chris Rock was better than I was expecting, given his awful straight screen acting - and the writers have kept the whole thing cogent. 6/10
The film start with various framed instances of an id ingesting a pre-somnolent cheese board. Luckily Lynch eschews neither real character, nor the chuckles as well as the chills of his surreal vision. Henry Spencer, as played by Jack Nance, is beset by a neurosis which gives his world-vision the aspect of Stalker-designed Tarkovsky or Orson Welles' The Trial. Indeed Kafka might be as good a way as any to approach the elliptical purpose of of Lynch's film, given the Alien- presaging progeny at its centre.As I've indicated, for all that this is a bizarre, unreal film it has a linear (if easily digressive) narrative and consistent pockets of wit. What it also has though is true horror in its insistent, industrial sound design/score (the director's own) and subject material that makes Rosemary's Baby seem like simple black humour. The feel of the film is most closely matched by the latter-day Inland Empire, but all the subsequent Lynchian tropes are present and just as unsettling. 7/10
A classical Hitchcock thriller. The scenario is cunningly inside out: a priest, Fr Logan, hears the confession of a murderer, Keller, who panics when he suspects that Logan might violate the Seal of the Confessional and so tries to frame him. During the course of the film it becomes clear that Logan's situation is far from a straightforward stand off between him and Keller and that the burden of the priest's position is multifarious.This is a clever, well realised film in a number of ways. Whilst clearly a play-for-screen, with the set pieces of Ruth's statement-as-confession and the courtroom drama, Hitchcock manages to construct a parallel visual narrative that uses pursuit and flashback. It's not an exclusively discursive production. There's also considerable, unnerving complications as characters come forward with the truth only to discover that there revelations simply intensify the false assumptions made by others.Anne Baxter's proud Ruth Grandfort is the key to this central contradiction, a role taken in passionate earnest. Montgomery Clift, saddled with having to look concerned but retentive throughout is saved by his good looks. Everyone is acted into a corner when the wonderful Karl Malden as Inspector Larrue is on screen (particularly the uncredited judge who is dreadful!). The film has a super, thoughtful score from Dimitri Tiomkin who incorporates chant from the (Requiem) Mass and even references Mussorgsky in underscoring church bells. Hitchcock uses a variety of shots with total confidence but one particularly notes some dynamic tracking shots in the seminary and outside the courtrooms. 7/10
A good cast having fun with a solid idea. Renée Zellweger (Bridget) is a genuine comic talent and gets on well with her British cast. She's also game, not least for putting on weight, tough for an LA resident but lending the film veracity. Of all Hugh Grant's trope cards, 'nasty charmer' could well be his trump; Colin Firth manages to be a part of the comedy whilst being handed the serious, straight guy role. Very good.Bridget Jones is a funny creation (both ha ha and peculiar), the rewards for which Helen Fielding deserves. I can see the guiding hand of Richard Curtis here and I must qualify myself ahead of time - I think Curtis does have a gift for ordering and pacing a script. The jokes are also funny but he does have a tendency to bludgeon with shock-pottymouth bursts. I don't know how much is Fielding as opposed to him but this film suffers from it. I'm sorry to bring this up again but it always sticks out for me.All in all, a solid, if plastic film where the supporting British cast seem to have the whole thing in their blood. For all Zellweger's Bridget Jones is an amusing creation I can't help but feel that she's also a rather sad one. 4/10
A jolly good matinée. From the outset the film is a pageant of cliché but, like a box of Krispy Kremes, you know it's not good for you but health ain't why you eat 'em. In this, as in so many other things, director David Ellis keeps things ticking along nicely.The best feature of this film is the mix of comedy and gore. There are an awful lot of snakes and a good handful of people get fanged in horrible but hilarious ways. The acting isn't great but it's perfectly respectable for such a functional picture. Of course there's the raw charisma of Samuel L. Jackson and the, er, raw sexuality of Julianna Margulies. Terrible chemistry though! No big surprises, only lots of little forked-tongued ones. Watch with friends, popcorn and new batteries in your irony filter. 5/10
Great fun although I think this film is much more comedy than substantive satire. Aaron Eckhardt is super, charming, even slightly goofy but all-American. Neither he nor Reitman makes the mistake over becoming over reflective or earnest.The film is more than a satire of the anti-intuitive, self-contradicting business of tobacco. It's also a satire about the media, the active arm of the lobbying industry. It's an effective assassin of this target as it treats this target casually. Disdain is the roughest form of comedy.The cast is large, high-quality and almost entirely perfect. William H Macy as the suicidally righteous senator and JK Simmons as the bluff BR are at the top of the list of good reasons to watch this film. 6/10
Just as the cadets of Police Academies 2 to 6 couldn't graduate again, so the scrapes, jokes and general jolly filth of Pie the First are DOA in this dreadful sequel. The storyline can't be repeated so there's no dramatic armature for new gags to grow on. Consequently what new ones there are are either borrowed from Jackass or amount to shameless softcore pornography.The exuberance of the players and ability to riff on the head-shakingly perverse situations they find themselves in are admirable at least. But it's all over when Stiffler's underage younger brother turns up touting the same potty-mouth as the others. An empty film. 2/10
An above average procedural which cashes the potential of Kevin Spacey - and the internal corruption drama of his recent LA Confidential. Hot shot negotiator Danny Roman's been set up and, in the leave-your-common-sense-at-the-door central act of the film, takes over an entire building and will only deal with the awkward outsider Chris Sabian to negotiate the situation.This is a perfectly cast film. Spacey and Jackson are fine actors and this is really a conflagrated two-hander which requires Jackson to be an action hero occasionally. That's exactly how it plays out, with Sabian/Spacey's suspicions being aroused as the rules of negotiation are continually undermined and subverted. The well-executed action in the office block recalls the best bits of Die Hard. 7/10
A dreadful, dreadful movie. It is as bad as the first in the 'franchise' (The Silence of the Lambs) was good. There's nothing to recommend it.The general idea is to attempt to explain the Hopkins-Lecter pathologies and tropes. Well pathology, yes, but tropes..? Iconic costuming, props and symbols are reproduced in this film simply for the sake of brand continuity.The acting's rubbish. Gaspard Ulliel grins menacingly but there's nothing going on behind the eyes - worse still is his laughable aunt-cum-lover (!) Gong Li (a shame that - she is much a much loved celebrity of Chinese cinema). Even Rhys Ifans can do nothing to save the thing, half-heartedly chewing the scenery when he's not chewing someone else in the cast. The script is bland, as is - amazingly -the 'gore'.The only reason I stayed to the end was to see what happened to a gang of boys who infiltrated our auditorium to avoid the 18 certificate. Even they got bored and left after ten minutes. Good move 1/10
Another 'meet-me-in-my-humour-zone' number from the people that could have brought you Anchorman, Zoolander, Dodgeball etc., etc. It's not great, but there's plenty to laugh at if you try. The problem is that such filmmakers assume you pre-exist in their world of half-baked gags; so if you want the fun to come to you, you will be - as I was - left frozen out.Will Ferrell is good. That's it really. There are a roster of other actors that I don't recognise and I have the funny feeling (one of the only funny feelings I had in total, actually) that one is supposed to recognise them. OK, I got the Nancy Kerrigan cameo, but then I was expecting that from the outset. Thank goodness that was brief. 2/10
The finest of the great triumvirate of Hughes' mid 80s high-school films. The Breakfast Club has a pre-Linklater intimacy and seriousness; Weird Science begat Buffy. But Ferris Bueller's Day Off is all things to all men - and women. Light, fast, immensely detailed and brilliantly acted the whole thing fizzes with the heady mix of pubescence and 80s aspiration.Returning to this film, what I love is that the only truly unsympathetic character is off-stage, that is to say Cameron's father. Everyone else is a good guy. Rooney, the high-school principal is a pantomime goon, a trope played outstandingly by Jeffrey Jones, but is no baddie. The valets, abducting the car because it's a wonderful motor, not through avarice, bring it back unscathed. Neuroses are the real, faceless enemy, easily dispatched in the climate of can-do and good humour. Marvellous.What I didn't remember is the carnival float sequence in the centre of Chicago. Despite the one fault of the movie - the bloody-minded interpolation of a recreation of Wacko's Thriller video - it stands as an exhilarating, signature sequence for the entire film. 8.5/10
This is a pretty good adventure romp. Set at the turn of the previous century the 'League of Gentlemen' cast are freaks from contemporaneous literature drawn together to ward off a world war.The film is a straightforward 3-acter (three big action sequences). There's extensive and largely successful use of greenscreen in order to create grand backdrops and effects. More inventive is the in-shot costuming, gadgetry and vehicles.Sean Connery leads capably as a Indiana Jones-style adventurer. The supporting cast are OK - I particularly enjoyed Naseeruddin Shah's Captain Nemo - if shackled by a cringeworthy script. The first third of the film is exposition-as-dialogue and there are many exchanges designed for a target, younger audience (although there are some very frightening incidents, again along the lines of Indiana Jones). But it's good clean fun and never deserved the critical drubbing it got on its release. 6/10
The film that made Tom Cruise a star. It's rather peculiar because he's a contradictory character. Call-signed Maverick (his character is the eminently forgettable Pete Mitchell) he's certainly the joker in the pack but he seems a little clean-cut for all that once he's out of the cockpit. He's got considerable chutzpah not only hitting on Kelly McGillis' Blackwood in a bar but getting the entire bar to back him in song in so doing; then he finds out she's his instructor but has the wherewithal to change gear and have her anyway. In short (no pun intended) he is all things to all men.I guess this is the secret of Cruise's enduring success, right there in this character - the ability to appeal to everyone without becoming dilute. This film also has a considerable supporting cast of the military, apart from anything else, dynamically and stirringly captured by Tony Scott and, of course, a pungent, echt-1986 soundtrack featuring Berlin's huge syrupy hit 'Take My Breath Away'. 6/10
A classic feature for playing the perennial 'spot the homage'. Only it's not always particularly difficult in this film, since the pastiche moments are extended way beyond the passing hat tip. It's basically a cut-n-shut of Chinatown and Pale Rider, seasoned with the dessicated psychedelia of Fear And Loathing In Las Vegas. In terms of consuming a plot I got bored fairly quickly.But then, that's the problem I have with cartoons. Though the gags may be fine-tuned within a frame of ideal execution, the characters are two- dimensional (even in 3D, though this isn't that, mercifully) which is an impediment for me. The voice-over work is good but no more, with Johnny Depp reprising his Jack Sparrow. It's also unsatisfactorily edited; the unevenly paced storytelling is incongruent with the tightly manicured animation.And what animation. It's not only meticulously, realistically detailed but the lighting of each shot is equally laudable. I didn't get on with the Jar-Jar Binks-like Beans, mind. Still the Star Wars/Indy-proforma canyon chase is undoubtedly impressive.Above all my biggest worry is what Verbinski intended the film to be. The script has some fairly adult themes (and one or two adult jokes), with the film proper following an intriguing sequence in which Rango considers his 'purpose' aloud. Yet, the moment he bumps into the first character on the road to the town that poetic investigation is abandoned - unlike in, say, Seraphim Falls, where the metaphor is maintained throughout. I was disappointed as there was a suggestion that this wouldn't simply fall into the familiar procedure of the genre-legacy Western... which it did. 5/10
Jumpers is not a film about hot wiring vehicles, although at times you'd be forgiven for thinking it was. The thrust of the action involved Samuel L Jackson running around armed with electrics and a knife (and channelling Dennis Rodman through his scalp). Like one or two of the loonier characters Jackson has been required to play, this guy - called Roland! - doesn't really have a rational basis for trying to annihilate the Jumpers of the title. Rather, he just sees them as blasphemous.Hmm. On the other side of the logic worm-hole is Hayden Christensen toning down the playboy lifestyle his 'gift' affords him in order to try and score the childhood sweetheart. Jamie Bell shows up because the film could use some charisma (Rachel Bilson might have sufficed had she had long enough to make a mark). The denouement and epilogue are over-the-top, dramatically limp and sequel-begging inconclusive/daft (I blame Bourne for that one).That said, it's a pacey film with well-incorporated effects. A central montage sequence that uses the locations already visited for a luxurious, manic chase is nicely put together. And, as I say, Jamie Bell's great fun. 5/10
Stock, solipsistic-humour genre-spoof that was sufficiently boring for me to leave halfway though. Stock? This sort of sidestepping, improvised humour of which Will Ferrell is the leading exponent is now old hat, a Noughties trend. As such it's tired in itself. What really bores me though is that the gags don't support the characters or story. They're like noisy sideshows; more than irrelevant, they're distracting. It's a shame because the basic idea for lampooning the cop thriller and buddy movie in one holds up. It starts quite well, with a nice double cameo from The Rock and Sam Jackson and individual turns from Michael Keaton and Eva Mendes. It's murdered by the central couple though, Ferrell continually overstretching the (already thin) gags and opposite a Mark Wahlberg who (and the casting agency are as guilty as he in this) confuses being a screen presence for acting. Pointless. 2/10
This is one trick film in the final analysis but survives as a result of the strong yarn-spinning interest of M Night Shyamalan and a superb central performance from Haley Joel Osment. Bruce Willis' natural brow-beaten mien is also a gift; there seems to be meaning in incidents which again only acquire their substance after the final twist. Willis' langour also allows the drifting narrative to find a good pace whilst Osment rushes around trying to escape his paranormal paranoia.Olivia Williams and Toni Collette are also very conscious of the process of making this elusive film and give well-calibrated, if discreet performances. Syamalan was rightly lauded on his success - despite the exponential depreciation rate of this formula in subsequent viewings (i.e. if you know what's going on the surprise vanishes) the film stands up well. 6/10
... i.e. both the CGI making up the majority of Michael Bay's movie and also the necessary product placement. That's eBay.COM if anyone missed it first or even second time around.Fearsome special effects, literally and figuratively. The best sequences are those super-short ones conducted in slo-mo (i.e. both the ones used in the trailer). This shows up an irritating shortcoming in producing FX this compelling - in order to integrate them with the film there has to be motion at all time, to distract from the CG seams (less forgivably, the sound suffers too).Though this can be made to work with films like this - it's all part of the dynamism of the action - it does make it hard going on the eyes and brain. Luckily, Michael Bay pays little attention to the finer points of contiguous narrative, so you can turn your brain off. The film feels like 2 hours of commercials.I don't mean this entirely as a criticism. It's what the film was always meant to be. The cast certainly know it: from Shia LaBeouf's outstanding, wisecracking lead to the (excessive) pantomimics of John Turturro the gags take the place of characterisation, in the same way that graphics take the place of filming. A Faustian pact, but I bought if for a popcorn-bucket's length. 4/10
I was gripped by Upstream Color, often despite itself. The film knows what its about and pursues it meticulously, exhaustively and occasionally with old-fashioned, self-indulgent pretentiousness, but that's no bad thing. The plot is difficult to re-iterate but involves a modern couple's metaphysical shadowing of an organic life-cycle.As is often the way, I was straight into trying to work out what the metaphor is. For me there is a strong one, to do with the contemporaneous financial crisis and the (apparently) all-pervasive violation of rights and personal freedoms in today's connected society. It's on the basis of a reading such as this that the pure poetry of the film is lost in comparison with something like The Tree Of Life, whose own analogies are timeless. However Upstream Color does benefit from a stronger sense of its own direction are constituent purpose. The narrative is linear and causal, the editing clever and fluid, the music/sound design a tandem of integrated sound.For me the film suffers slightly from Carruth casting himself - Jeff is always rather too alert, and set apart from Amy Zeimetz's (excellent) Kris with whom he's probably meant to be more akin. This is a good film to really immerse oneself in, trusting to the possibility of poetry from the screen. And, like much modern poetry, comprehension may be elusive but the warp and weft is all. 6/10
I found myself rather moved by this movie, although I felt I'd been half bullied into it. It's a remarkable film about the value of things. The grand concept is rather like Brewster's Millions for a saintly child: the character of the film is one in which Danny Boyle has run with this literally. Frenetic and flashy, the story is told largely from a child's perspective, complete with overlapping memory, magic real- and sur-realism, lots of colour and a generally breezy way of relating even the most frightening or upsetting episodes. I like it, although it does feel like one is watching a cyclical commercial.The acting's OK - may favourite is Lewis McGibbon who plays Anthony, the brother of the principal, Damian. It's tough to be hard of the cast given the aesthetic that Boyle has created for them to work in which can often be like supercharged Hollyoaks. Yet, as I say, I was touched by the sentimental, worthily naive message at the end of it all. This is because for all Boyle's light touch he's not neglecting the story at all. A super Christmas flick for the family to gather round. 6/10
Tough, often exciting, testosterony fare from Affleck (both as actor and director). The Town is a thriller identical in many respects to Michael Mann's 1995 magnum opus Heat. It doesn't have the detail and panache of the former film to be honest but the action sequences are excellent - a car chase sequence amongst the narrow back lanes of the older parts of Boston is pungent with the smell of burning rubber.For all it contrivances the film is made convincing by some terrific performances (and Affleck giving them the space and context to breathe). Principally this means his own double-headers with Rebecca Hall, who doesn't quite have the screen vernacular of a middle-class East-Coaster but certainly fits the Charleston outsider like a (terrible beautiful) glove. Jeremy Renner is the bad'n, although it's just as well he doesn't have much screen time with Pete Postlethwaite who acts everything in the same frame as him straight out of it with contained malice. I also liked Blake Lively's pram-faced, drug-using weak link, a doped-up version of Drea de Matteo in The Sopranos. 7/10
It's a slight movie on paper. Passing stranger falls in love with housewife, but she decides not to follow him when he moves on. Goodness me, what power it has though! All of that power seems to irradiate from the masterful central performances of both Clint Eastwood and Meryl Streep (it's Francesca/Streep's film really, but both actors are strong).Naturally there's more to it than the sweetness of true love's inevitability and the torture of the examined conscience. The affair is played out in flashback as Francesca's children read her will (and reassess their own dysfunctional marriages). This naturally recalls the recent Curious... Benjamin Button in which Cate Blanchett cajoles her daughter into reliving her past. The Bridges of Madison County is a more realist adventure in love-in-time. It also benefits from concentrating on a four day period alone with a short 'recent past' sequence within the narrative framing device, as in the film Atonement; the pathos of the love affair is circumscribed with a poignant up-to-date encounter with the narrator, speculating on what might have been in the interim (a similar device concentrates the bittersweet encounter of another of McEwan's books, On Chesil Beach).I think that the thing that really pushes the viewer over the edge though is the sense of something startling, or even catastrophic about to happen. In a sense this happens in a happy reverse. The catastrophe - the couple falling in love - is nothing of the sort and happens gently. Yet the deliberate pace of the lead into and away from the affair primes an audience reasonably versed in such things to expect great drama. It's in the uncoiling of these moments that the heart is strung, as one familiar with the key moments of Strauss' great opera on the assumption and relinquishing of love, Der Rosenkavalier, will be all too aware. Feel free to blub. I did. 7/10
The first question: is it real or staged? This story of a group of film- makers documenting a friendship midwived by Facebook has some plastic, contrived corners worthy of the hand-held aesthetic. What's interesting though is that it might not even be possible for the group of friends making the film to decide what's real and what's contrived. The film itself questions whether playing a role mediated by a computer or phone - and by extension, a film - renders the characters unreal. As in the recent Kiarostami film Certified Copy, or even the audition scene in David Lynch's Mulholland Drive, there may be a point at which assuming a role where the role becomes fact. It depends upon the others' perspective.That perspective is what the film tacitly examines. The men who go in search of a person they know only through the internet are actually going off to validate their own vanity. Working in photography, film and communicating with an artist, they are image-fixated anyway: additionally, they're often on camera bare-cheated and the principal, Nev wears a brace for his teeth. It's to their credit that they deal with what they discover in a mature fashion, and makes us sympathetic for the drama of heartbreak - a universal storyline in a 21st century format.The film doesn't pan out how I was expecting it to, but this is a quirk of some very canny marketing. And the Catfish? There's an equivocal explanation at the end of the film which suggests that we all need to keep some interest in our life to prevent complacency, although I'm not sure how relevant or focused it is. On the whole this is a good-natured, perceptive and rather serious film that is an excellent, non-fictional corollary to The Social Network. 7/10
Election is really another high school movie. The fact that it revolves around a school ballot doesn't necessarily elevate it to satire. Even if it was pointed an attempt to highlight the corruption of the electoral process and those in pursuit of power, it obviously didn't work in the year of its release. Or, at least, it wasn't shown in Florida.So it's s high school matinée and a perfectly competent, affecting one at that. Reese Witherspoon was still waiting for Legally Blonde for her royal road to superstrdom but her performance is nothing less than assured. Broderickseems to want to make amends for all that Ferris Bueller put his own high school principal through, throwing himself into a self-perpetuating litany of self-assassinating sight gags. Chris Klein is preparing his dopey jock act for the American Pies and it's just right. 6/10
An exciting and poignant film. It's not quite the melodrama of The Russia House, or Firefox perhaps, but it has pathos in spades, being a story told in the long view of hindsight. The late Ulrich Mühe is wonderful as Wiesler, the lonely middleman of a slowly dissipating Stasi, an outfit propped up only by familiarity and pomposity. The artists that he is commissioned to wire are Westernised in the main - it is only the peccadilloes of senior officials, artistic hauteur/fragility and the aforementioned loneliness that cause the drama.It's churlish to criticise this film for that reason. Director von Donnersmarck is clearly looking for the a personal story, at once highlighting and exploiting the pettiness of statutory paranoia five years shy of reunification. In fact my only feeling was that this film did not embrace melodrama as it might. Sebastian Koch's weak turn as the writer Dreymann is principally at fault here. It all seems rather too self-contained, a bit mechanical in the way in which the subterfuge and heroics are played out.It is consistent: the end is righteous but not warm. Nonetheless the film is clear and elegantly constructed. 7/10
An operatic film, in keeping with it's content. Herzog's film is simple. It is made without recourse to any effects. Consequently it remains an act of film-making chutzpah that will never be repeated and one cannot take one's eyes from the screen. Amazingly Herzog manages to make some sort of narrative and visual variation from this situation. Rather like this seemingly unattainable task of moving a huge vessel overland between two proximate but apparently unbridgeable tributaries, so Fitzcaraldo's ambition is to bring the pinnacle of Western art to one of the world's least civilised outposts. The outcome - the closing sequence of the film - may be classed a success or failure depending how one's perception of what constitutes either is reassigned by the experience of the journey that is the body of the film.Kinski is a wonderful force of nature, at once dilletante madman and visionary. That we are kept guessing is the centre of the drama. The casting of Cardinale as his faithful lover seems like an odd gilding exercise until the exuberant finale - by which time Herzog has performed some sort of alchemy. An extraordinary achievement, and all the more so given the disastrous living-memory precedents of Apocalypse Now and Heaven's Gate. 7.5/10
Essentially a cold war agitprop matinée. The first is the world-weary vet recluse coerced into a dangerous mission to annoy the Russians. The second bit is that annoying of the Russians. This second half of the film is less interesting than the first but much more fun.Like Bond films the excitement isn't really in the action but in the trappings of the spy, the detail - gadgets, counterfeit papers, disguises and the psychology of the chase. Eastwood (directing himself) looks permanently harassed, even when he's in his four-hour-long shower prior to the execution of his mission. There's great support from the British actor Warren Clarke as his Russian point man and someone put a lot of effort into designing the outrageous fighter planes which make the final twenty minutes such a blast. 5/10
Like it successor Memento, Following chops up its storyline and feeds it to us out of sequence. Designed to fire the imagination as the plot proper unfolds, the trick is not to confuse the audience in the process.Nolan gets it right first time with this film. Like the story itself, Following starts in a moderate temperament but slowly constricts the viewer. The non-linear (implictly flashback) narrative acts as a series of twists which keep coming right up to the end. It's almost gripping.Almost. The acting is very perfunctory and lets the project down somewhat. No doubt it must have been hard on the cast given the peripatetic manner in which the impecunious Nolan put it all together.That said the acting is simply symptomatic of Nolan's will to produce the movie in his head. The cast are clearly contributing for love not money and the flaws in lighting, sound and set pieces are the scars of successful struggle rather than errors of judgement. 7/10
A squeaky, comic-book lite version of the recurring day theme of Groundhog Day. This film is typical of many single-concept vehicular matinees: a high profile A-list couple, a handful of other kerr-azy characters and a perpetual glut of irrelevant one-liner asides to keep things 'funny'.Well, it may be flimsy to say the least, but Adam Sandler does have an undeniable charisma. He's the only watchable element of the film though: Drew Barrymore has always struck me as a rather awkward love interest and this is no different. The other characters (with the possible exception of Blake Clark, playing Barrymore's dad) are all cardboard cutouts.But for a brave denouement to the film it's all rather boring. 2/10
Essentially I walked away from V for Vendetta feeling thoroughly patronised. There are a number of reasons for this. The film not only dramatises corruption and malign autocracy in globulously broad strokes but also narrates what it's showing. Narrative overkill is not only boring but a sign of directorial insecurity, I'm afraid. It's also a dreadfully realised script, far too highly stylised in language and pretentiously rendered by Weaving (who is an excellent actor sans mask, so double disappointment there); of a part with the ersatz script is the Wachowski's London in which, half the time, one expects Jack The Ripper to pop up in cameo.Still, the film has some strong elements which commend it. The Wachowskis may misjudge many things but they know how to edit a film together. Even if the look is plastic, often made-for-TV, it rattles along at a consistent, absorbing pace. They also have a key weapon in Natalie Portman, an excellent actor who gives this film a far better performance than it deserves. The rest of the British cast are very good as well, with the exception of Stephen Fry - he is not a great screen actor and should resist the temptation to spread himself (thinly) to the wrong side of the camera.In the end, whilst I felt vaguely entertained by the film I also felt rather ignored. This isn't simply because I felt talked down to by an untrusting directorial voice. The character of V is a vigilante and a highly warped, suspect one at that. The film fails to really investigate the dubiousness of his actions, despite Portman's best efforts - we're just expected to go with it. That's lazy film-making. 3/10
There's little not to like in this directorial debut. There is one thing not to like though, which has proved the stumbling block for others; that the protagonists comprise a gang of boys who begin the film by mugging a nurse. It's a nasty opening gambit, very real (and familiar to those of us who live in the part of of the world in which the film is set). But then, the opening of Psycho involves Janet Leigh going on the run with stolen cash before she - and we - are interrupted by a whole new level of surprise and threat.Cornish's opener is a more complex MacGuffin than Hitchcock's. The boys in the gang - or, chiefly, the gang leader Moses, played astonishingly well by John Boyega - undergo a rite-of-passage as the viewer-public begins to get more information about the alternative life that living in this block seals up from the outside. Inbetween points are made sharply and without fuss, my favourite being a rebuke to those sneering (both on screen and, probably, in the auditorium) at the street argot: as Jodie Whittaker's Sam takes the particularly loquacious Pest to task about his urban-adolescent logic, he simply replies 'you cuss too much, man' - and it's true, the nurse uses fouler language than the gang whose street patois is principally a means of communication, rather than expression.Socio-political commentary aside this is a film it's hard not to enjoy. The energy of the young cast is irrepressible and nicely propped up by Whittaker and Luke Treadaway's posh dope fiend. The design of the aliens is awards-worthy, a study in imagination and invention over means. Cornish's direction is the laureate of this impressive collective though, always finding a good balance between comedy and action, allowing the story room to breathe within a ringfence of great economy. 6/10
At first, no exposition. We come straight in at William Hurt's theatrical narration of a movie which may or may not have existed. Everything reveals itself in the same way, steadily and without explanation, starting - eventually - with Hurt's hyper-masculine cell-mate Raul Julia. It's a dialogue-heavy film and frankly, could have been fairly successful given the well designed and shot cell and the well-played roles.Well, Hector Babenco, decides the use the opportunities cinema affords and opens the narration right out at the same deliberate pace as the rhythm of the script demands. The 'film' comes to life in a hot peach sepia (becoming a cool moonlight blue for the second Spider Woman 'film' narration); the men's own stories also start to emerge in flashback and an interesting development emerges beyond the confines of the cell. Are they simply telling their stories - or are they 'embellishing' (as Molina excuses himself early on)?For all these subplots, parallel narratives and metaphors - for the film bears them all - the heart of the film beats only in the relationship borne by the men in the cell. Hurt's Oscar for his gay Molina is as deserved an award as any other, and the suggestion that the actors switched roles shortly before filming tells you all you need to know about Julia's fine contribution. Very, very good. 8/10
A strange, threatening, long and yet consistent film. The basic plot - rather like the actor/character crossover metaphysic of Mulholland Drive - centres around an actress not only in a cursed role but also with an out-of-synch consciousness. Not for nothing is the film within the film entitled On High in Blue Tomorrows.The grand joy of the film is it's texture. Shot almost entirely on digital film, it often has the look of a string of bizarre You Tube clips played in succession. The CCTV-ish grain of the texture really lends itself to Lynch's fine-line narration veering between realism and the surreal. Additionally, the editing is quite outstanding and the film maintains a coherent pulse.This is just as well because most of the time the substance of the film is either elusive or simply impenetrable. There is very little in dialogue or scraps of linear plot to guide one through the grand arc of the film (such as there is one). It doesn't help that there are one or two sequences that really tax the patience of the viewer.Lorna Dern's heroic performing stamina is a pretty good reason to commit yourself to three hours of this baffling but undeniably affecting opera. 4/10
As Steven Segal was hammering out the template for the 90s action blockbuster with Under Siege, John Woo was breaking his own ground with Hard Boiled. Woo's extremely violent but anaesthetisingly romanticised Chow Yun Fat vehicle is from the same stable. But with an entirely new international market - sorry, audience - in tow the Hollywood call was inevitable.Hard Target came first... but this is the film designed for the big audience, fronted by Travolta. The whole thing takes place in the Utah desert with the exception of studio sequences for a mine and military control rooms. That's because Woo needs space in which to BLOW THINGS UP. Inbetween explosions there's an increasingly manic, wisecracking Travolta and earnest-but-dull Christian Slater. With the possible exception of Hans Zimmer's Woo-tailored score it's difficult to see if any money was spent anywhere else. 4/10
The hand-wringing first. This Coen brother movie is, like all Coen brothers movies, a little too long by about 15 mins. There just isn't enough film in the idea to sustain both the story-telling and wacky shenanigans that they shoot in trying to tell it.That said, the Hudsucker Proxy is a thoroughly entertaining matinée painted in almost comic-book like broad strokes. Tim Robbins' super performance combines slapstick that suggests Harold Lloyd but a sharp understanding of the gags and ironies in the script. Where he gives the picture energy so Paul Newman's grizzled schemer Mussburger is a broody husk of cunning and malevolence. The two balance each other out nicely, along with the typewriterly dry delivery of Jennifer Jason Leigh's Amy Archer. Heart warming, bonkers and, as I say, slightly over-cooked. 5/10
Without a doubt, a troubling film. Robert Mitchum pulls off his celebrated con-artist preacher role as he lavishes it with charisma. The more pantomime it appears, the more people buy the act. This is one of the two great themes of Laughton's film, the power of make-believe and principally the power of religious - i.e. surreal - belief.The other, linked to it, is that of naivety. The children are but a function of this: the film gets underway with their father pulling off a robbery as he cannot bear the material squalor of the world. So the movie see-saws between men, women and children trying to keep the suspicious at bay whilst buying the outrageous to achieve that. All the while the camera takes in the subconscious and bizarre: animals appearing in hyper-real close-up, a man of God with the tattoos of a thug and an underwater shot of great beauty that can only mean unspeakable violence.Laughton's expressionistic collage of these and other images is commendable. However, for all this peculiar juxtaposition of episodes I didn't find that the story quite held itself together. A case in point is when Powell is driven from the children by the shotgun wielding Rachel Cooper - but first she has to tap him on the shoulder as he's not really paying attention to her. It's a characteristic glitch in a film that, in general, often neglects the wood for it's remarkable trees. 6/10
The good things: Fassbender's brilliantly creepy android David, Idris Elba (naturally), some special effects. The sound effects in the state of the art parochial cinema I saw it (2d version) in.The bad things: It's a straight prequel that simply rehearses many of the ideas of the four 'subsequent' films. Charlize Theron. Some special effects. The opening sequence.The opening sequence. This may be a case in point in all sorts of ways. A beautifully composed mo-cap scene it seems to have no narrative value of its own. Throughout Ridley Scott's prequel - and this is a prequel to Alien - there are flashes of things which are sufficiently random have you paying even closer attention tot he screen, only for the exposition to suddenly start doubling up. The number of times a character does something that makes their thoughts or intentions clear and then is required to state it nonetheless becomes rather silly: I was particularly put off by a medic reading a clear VDU readout saying 'No contagion' only for her to repeat it for the benefit of... well, I guess those among us who can't read.And really, unlike those who haven't seen an Alien film before, that's not many. Too much contrivance for the great sci-fi pioneer, for all the successful spectacle 5/10
A movie entirely in keeping with the canon of Wes Anderson's best. It's entertaining, very funny with a straight face and continually subversive; you never know quite what's going to happen next. I like the wit of the camera, the speed at which shots introduce and then develop themselves. The editing is equally energised and succinct.Gliding and thrashing about in the middle of Rushmore is a super performance from Jason Schwartzman, playing a precocious, non-academic entrepreneur. He accidentally instigates a highly unlikely love triangle with a vulnerable but rational art teacher (the lovely, echt-English-rose Olivia Williams) and Bill Murray.This is a very interesting film in which to watch Murray. On this film's release the Indian Summer of Murray's eighties period (Groundhog Day, 1993) had come and gone. With Rushmore we are presented with a quieter, more introverted but focused Murray who, in this mode, would go on to make a number of fine comic films over the next decade - two more for Wes Anderson, as well as Lost in Translation and the discreet masterpiece Broken Flowers. Rushmore has the newly appropriated Murray fully formed: an ensemble character, still working his idiosyncratic seam but to the service of a commensurately quirky director.A smattering of high-calibre cameos and good child performances flesh this film out. It's stylised and occasionally indulgent but (unlike Tenenbaums, perhaps) Anderson keeps a grip on it all to super effect. 7/10
An impressive debut feature with a super central performance from Sam Rockwell. The film is unashamed of its predecessors which are clearly: 2001 (a Hal-like character called GERTY); Solaris (the existential drama of dealing with a doppelgänger); and Alien, for its realism.If there's one serious criticism to be made of this film it's in the handling of the dialogue. It's a treacherous path that Duncan Jones must tread between making Sam into a terse paranoiac or a cipher for our own misgivings about what's going on, i.e. whether or not he should engage GERTY in dialogue to exposit and (possibly) explain his situation. There are focus-drifting silences which, whilst frustrating, may be part of the aesthetic but never really feel right one way or another. The Moon is not a player in this film but the stage on which new dramas are met and struggled with.This apart, the rest of the film is overwhelmingly assured, troubling but always tending towards some sort of positive narrative & moral outcome. Rockwell brilliantly manages to create two marginally but consistently different personae. Yet not once does he resort to great melodrama or epiphany, keeping all his discoveries and actions within the realism that is such an asset overall. This film is a sci-fi film but doesn't use anything otherworldly to shock us. Instead we are presented with a number of conundrums familiar from the films listed above as well as present-day scientific advances which require universal, moral - and emotional - adjudication.The production design deserves a special mention, Tony Noble creating a believable Moon-surface and industrial building, well-shot by Gary Shaw. I also rather liked the 'smiley' idea for GERTY's VDU, which is well-used without being glib. 7.5/10
Up In The Air operates in a world in which allegory and circumstance are almost entirely overlaid. Ryan fires (rejects) people for a living, is always in flight and travels with only the most expedient baggage. Indeed, he moonlights giving talks on how to excise ties altogether like a karmic Gordon Gekko, rejecting the monogamy of swans for the cold, isolating consumerism of sharks in one notable speech.This is serious stuff but Clooney is its ideal advocate. He's worldly, a man who doesn't indulge sentiment - but his charm and ability to engage with the comedy are genuine. He manages his gears well, does Clooney, so we don't get the screwballing (from Burn After Reading or O Brother, for example). Nor do we get some sort of mushy epiphany as he, inevitably, recognises the awful extent of his personal isolation. This is classy acting and carries the film.Clooney is supported by two unconventional women. His jejune colleague Natalie is a trope, a graduate naive in almost every aspect of her life and work. Again Reitman's super script makes this thin-sounding part work nicely, patronising neither us nor the character. Alex is a female counterpart to Ryan in many ways and Vera Farmiga plays her without too much fuss given that she too is comparatively bi-dimensional.The film does begin to unravel a bit. Reitman, admirably, is determined not to provide answers but rather throws the baby of conclusiveness out with the bathwater of resolution and transformation. Nonetheless it's a masterful comedy, like a tightrope of fun over a shark-infested river of reality. No swans. 8/10
A circle of friends are consumed by regret they won't face and gravitate towards a happily married couple consumed by by giggles. Crudely reduced, this latest film by Mike Leigh can seem familiar. Eddie Marsan's cranky driving instructor was stuck on Sally Hawkins' helium-hysterical primary school teacher in Happy Go Lucky. Marsan again found himself rescued from the purgatory of post-war isolation by the gentle encouragement of the tea-fixated Imelda Staunton, as Vera Drake, she also in semi-hysterical denial at the moral conflict of conducting abortions. Indeed Staunton repeats her line in denial at the outset of this picture, as a prologue.Leigh credits his characters with great existential self-awareness by getting them to perform in this fashion, but it's quite hard to watch. One of the chief caveats levelled against Happy Go Lucky was the almost unbearable effervescence of Sally Hawkins. This heightened characterisation may be useful to set up moments of powerful drama but it doesn't always endear one to the protagonists. In Another Year, the characters played by Lesley Manville, Peter Wight and latterly Martin Savage (the belligerent Carl) are actually all equally as frenetic as the solid, loving centre of the film played by Sheen (Gerri) and Broadbent (Tom). It's just that the obvious coping methods of the former group are bitter and destructive - excessive drinking, self-delusion - and those of Tom and Gerri are not.The acting is very fine, particularly that of Ruth Sheen. It's great to see Peter Wight in a Leigh film again after the wonderful Naked (another film - maybe the ur-Leigh film - where a generally hectic delivery hides the trauma of nearby existential truths). David Bradley's also a fine addition to the regular ensemble. I just wish Leigh could trust the actors - and us - a bit more. 6/10
It's a film about sensuality. More accurately, it's about an absence of that sensuousness. 2 years after 24 Hour Party People - a moving, involving evocation of the birth of a culture during the 80s - 9 Songs seems like it's inevitable, anaesthetised sequel.It's decadent but concerned with the cul-de-sac of the sexual and narcotic experience of the lovers rather than the acts. The nine songs of the title are recorded from the floor of various live venues: all such performances consequently assimilate themselves into a single, unedifyingly raucous noise (visual and sonic). The only other strand to the film is Matt's visits to the Antarctic. Here is the control subplot: sensuousness and even time itself frozen, inanimate. Only beauty and wonder remain, although these still remind Matt of the more awkwardly existential moments of his sex/gig life.It's telling that Winterbottom's initial plan was to film Michel Houellebecq's explicit but bleak novel Platform. In this film we see the same matured modernity and the same emptiness. It becomes apparent early on that even if there is going to be some sort of dramatic development we won't care enough about the characters for it to affect us. A good film - the problem may be that it's more essay than movie. 6/10
From reviled cranks to heroes of the Big Apple, all over again. In the spirit of the scientific pedantry it satirises to great effect, Ivan Reitman has taken almost exactly the same proportions of the constituent parts of the first and put them in the second.The film is a winner though and it's because of the acting. The capricious Bill Murray is on good form, undeterred by being, potentially, upstaged by a cute baby. Rick Moranis is a bit of an add-on but he manages to fulfil a number of enabling roles capably - it's possible that his 'fifth musketeer' role at the end of the film was tacked on after test audiences found themselves wanting more. Peter MacNicol manages the tone of the film best although Dan Ackroyd is my favourite character - a little bit of all the others.The soundtrack is a little lame to be honest, even the odd arrangement 'of (Your Love Keeps Lifting Me) Higher and Higher'. Never mind, we still get the one liners and it doesn't crumble under the weight of it's own irony. 6/10
Crazy Heart is a film populated by what appear to be cinematic tropes: the angel-of-salvation; the young pretender; the snake-like-agent, right down to his boots. Of course the principal role of Bad Blake is, on the face of it, an entire collection of the familiar. Jeff Bridges' wayward country music icon drawls, drinks, leers and lurches through a graceless existence on the road.If the film becomes a marvellous, magnetic story of redemption on this road, it's because the cast manage to sublimate these boil-in-the-bag characters with credibility. Maggie Gyllenhall is quite brilliant in managing a worldliness that mixes but doesn't conflict with Bridges' lifeworn Bad. She excels giving her backstory without simply reading it out to camera. It's a very cultured performance. As for Bridges, his own face not only mirrors the desert landscape through which he drives but also intimates the dessication of his own soul. Yet this Oscar-winning performance is a great deal more than simply getting photographed. His is the greatest stereotype to overcome, that of the taciturn Texan man whose beliefs and sins are shackled together like concrete boots on the bedrock of the river that his face resembles. I often didn't catch what he said but understood everything with consistent clarity. Technical sublimation of a role such as this is pretty rare and one must look too the high points of Michael Caine's career for similarly selflessness.I might also add that the soundtrack is highly effective, the direction light of touch and the photography impressive. A strong film. 7/10
A highly stylised but never unreal film. Kubrick has succeeded in creating a film that swings easily between the real and the overtly theatrical. The key to mounting the story is that we're never really quite sure which is which. Is Bill Harford creating his adventures? Or is he simply becoming aware of his own desires and the ease with which he can fall into pursuing them? Don't ask Cruise... he brings his hallmark intensity but he cannot muster any insight. Kidman's role is more marginal if more thoroughly performed. I enjoyed Pollack, the dependable Rade Serbedzija (Millich), Leelee Sobieski (his daughter)... Todd Field's Nick Nghtingale is functional, no more. Alan Cumming's cameo is too much.Above all this is Kubrick's film. The shots are beautifully straightforward and narrative friendly. I also like the no-nonsense crossfades at the end of each transitional scene. This contrasts violently with the (now notoriously) slow pace of the film. In fact the film goes rather quickly. It's just that there are key set pieces in which the characters are required to conduct their mono-/dia-logues in a manner that lends itself to the possibility-of-a-dream ambiguity of the aesthetic.I'm sure that had Kubrick had been able to further edit what he had, he would have done so. He's trying to create a new envelope to his cinema. Just as opera works because (rather than despite) of its mannerisms, so Kubrick was searching for a new function of expression in this elasticated prosaicism rather than simply reaching for metaphor. The imperfections remain but the intent is a rough diamond. 7/10
A witty, stylishly made film, Fantastic Four excels below the ceiling of its paymasters' expectations rather than being undermined by them. There's no grand posturing, a la Spiderman. Instead everyone's out to have fun.I enjoyed the special effects and Chris Evans' mouthy but charming xtreme/rockstar superhero. I was surprised at how Ioan Gruffudd involved himself in a project I'd never have associated him with before; and, talking of blend, I thought the film was shot and integrated with the graphics with care.Of course, I did spend large parts of the film making tea, talking to friends and even taking a phone call. It passes on an X-men/Batman-depth investigation of the moral drama. But met expectation is a positive outcome in a straightforward franchise flick. 5/10
A version of Falling Down without a twist, Changing Lanes is a well- conceived 24-hour drama about doing the right thing in the modern world. It's a good title - the two principals get into a fender bender when they inadvertently cross lanes on a highway. Yet the lanes aren't really those of a road, rather they are the career and life paths that the two character seems to be following unquestioningly.The crash leaves both men late for a court appearance, a nice conceit in itself, given that the law is a practical civic expression of majority morality. The unsatisfactory outcome of their morning in court sets in motion a reactive game of tit for tat in which each blames the other for their misfortunes - but their own failings rise to the surface with alarming clarity. It's a good blend of action and revelation, although to effect the entire thing in a day stretches credulity to its limits.Affleck's flash-n-fresh lawyer Baneck is solid but not quite as good as Samuel L Jackson's Doyle; both labour manfully under the compressed schedule of episodes. Chap Taylor deserves credit for making a good film where a mediocre one was wispering sweet nothings in his ear throughout. 6/10
Clearly director Giorgos Lanthimos has been hanging out in a shady corner of the imagination playground with Michael Haneke and Lars von Trier. This deadpan story of an obsessively insular family is baffling, shocking and comic in equal measure. The siblings are way past puberty but behave with the unquestioning obedience of children much younger; the father rules over all with an totalitarian nonchalance and a complicit wife. Naturally the story is one in which this cannot be contained, not even with the conceptual shackle of the 'dogtooth', the (fabricated) idea that maturity is attained when an incisor falls out and is replaced of its own accord.Naturally, the essence of the story is one of insidious repression and intent - this film is lent a credibility by the dreadful experiences of Natascha Kampusch's abduction by Wolfgang Priklopil or Joseph Fritzl's abuse of his own daughter Elisabeth. However, Lanthimos maintains a certain distance from the morality of the situation his camera observes - not least through that camera, which stares in (beautiful) fixed shots of minimum formality. There's rarely a sense of unequivocal wrongdoing on the part of the parents. Explosions of violence are exactly that, shocking but never dwelt upon.Above all I enjoyed those moments in the film where a character does something that can't immediately be explained. This is probably a part of the father's plan for absorbing the development of his children's imagination. Words get new meanings ('what's a zombie, mother?' 'it's a little yellow flower') and the intrusion of cats, aeroplanes and fish get surprisingly logical explanations. Perhaps this is something that the film might be said to be about, the malleability of imagination. 7/10
High watermark Kubrick. It's a convoluted and often hysterical British satire shot with great care over lighting and composition. It's target is the near future or even a Britain of an alternative present. Everything follows fashion: clothes, culture, language, politics. The one exemption from this is the prison in which Alex is briefly interned, an establishment run by pre-war tub-thumpers for whom dogmatism, both religious and social, is inflexible. Importantly, whilst these characters are also amusing they are not contemptible.Malcolm MacDowell carries the movie, cannoning between the adolescent bravado, belligerence and victimisation that Lindsay Anderson already cast in If... Kubrick photographs him, as he photographs everything, straightforwardly, making the cast work hard, but repaying their work by obscuring none of it. The older cast are wonderful: Philip Stone is key as the put-upon father suffering his wife's hideous clothing and furnishing fads; Patrick Magee does a super turn as the writer driven just short of madness by the first attack; and Anthony Sharp is the manipulative interior minister, familiar from our contemporary politics.Controversy may be the legacy of this film for its brutal, stylised rape and violence sequences. What we see today though is an account of how the attitudes of those in the film already profoundly affected by fashion are further dictated by the media (there are lots of papers throughout). However, Alex's attitudes remain constant: they are the typical desires of a young man which, as often as they are maliciously sought also find consummation in as many circumstances that are not only anodyne but also humorous (the time lapse orgy to Rossini and the final shot). 7/10
This delightful stop-motion opus from the womb of Aardman is unremittingly monochromatic and can be grisly. It's also - mainly - affecting and very funny. The story concerns a transatlantic pen pal arrangement struck up at random - and, typically, without some elaborate parenthetical plot - by the eponymous protagonists. The child (Mary) and the overweight Aspergic Max use the conceit to discuss their dysfunctional lives in the manner of talking heads. Spurred on by the correspondence each moves their stymied lives along. The denouement is a bittersweet resolution of the natural drama of two people interacting at a distance and director Adam Elliot doesn't spare the Puccini.In the scant but familiar canon of Aardman animations, the film brims with extraordinary invention. This is no Wallace & Gromit facsimile though. The humour is often dragged straight from the either the toilet or, more disturbingly, from some darker psychological recesses. It's a very adult film and once Toni Colette takes over Mary's voicing it's as if she'd been doing the prepubescent Mary as well (one might also note that Colette's breakout role was as a suicidal mother in About A Boy, a voice capable of pitching just the right cracks in the gloss of the modern woman's make-up). Philip Seymour Hoffman is both unrecognisable & perfect as the ransomed New Yorker. I also greatly liked the drawn out but twinklingly world-weary narration of Barry Humphries, inspired casting.The film is, like its characters and subject matter, imperfect. The editing occasionally oversells a joke and the recurrent farting gag lacks consistency. Yet I enjoyed it very much, despite these flatulent moments, as an unsentimental exploration of universal experience through characters propped up on the periphery of possibility. 8/10
On balance, preferred to the original (film). It's idiomatically more like a typical American studio thriller and beautifully designed. Daniel Craig is perfectly suited for the imperfect Mikael, tempering his performance with a perpetual air of self-doubt or genuine fallibility. Rooney Mara could hardly be bettered as the gauche, damaged genius of the title. The largely British casting of the Vanger family is an investment with guaranteed return (Joely Richardson particularly fine in her brief appearances). Trent Reznor's score is effective if modest.Some issues: where does that title sequence come from or point to? I don't mind a flight of fancy but it strikes me as out of character for such a liberty in an otherwise economical narrative. Which brings me on to the third and fourth issues - I had little idea what was going on much of the time, not that it mattered; but the extended epilogue as the reason for Blomkvist's fall from grace is chased about Europe was an unnecessary codicil to the tale. It's a long film.Still, there are some great sequences - the subplot concerning Lisbeth's social administrator is punchy and grim but gripping. 7/10
A superb television drama. Centred on the Baltimore Police Department, this ambitious serial casts a city-wide net to take in the dark political manoeuvring from both the very top to the very bottom of Baltimore society.The basic premise revolves around the existential drive of detective Jimmy McNulty, played by Brit Dominic West. Like most of the other characters throughout all 5 seasons he's prepared to bend or break rules to get his way - the difference is that he is not driven by personal ambition. His warped sense of ethical entitlement takes him from drug busts to post- industrial corruption, politically motivated 'juking' (i.e. budget- impacting statistical and policy spin) and schools. The final season deals with the cumulative fallout of these endless strata of corruption in the truth-parallel universe of the media. All the while the 'Major Crimes Unit', an ad hoc bunch that revolves around the persistent McNulty press for The Wire, the hard won technological tap that will bring home the big cases at the centre of each season.The Wire has been called the greatest television there has ever been. It is not that - the stakes are too common and the genre too familiar - yet it is remarkable in two ways.The first is in the writing. I watched all five seasons of The Wire back-to-back in a fortnight and I was grateful for that opportunity. I cannot see how a single episode on its own would be truly satisfying in the manner of, say, The Sopranos. David Simon's vision is wildly ambitious, taking in huge arcs of storyline with very little to compensate the occasional viewer. That said, I like the manner in which the show is made - I got the vernacular immediately and it is continually satisfying stylistically.The second is the demographic, and this is where The Wire stands equal to any other TV show. It is clearly an exceptional show for its depiction and use of black actors. For all that there is a smattering of stereotypes, there are a considerable number of truly original roles created by now-unforgettable actors. There are three I need to mention here: the perennial Bunk, McNulty's partner, is played by Wendell Pierce as a wonderful complex of preening urban ennui, and small-town heart; Michael K Williams and Andre Royo play the surprising, classical roles in the 'hood with staggering aplomb, the former as Omar, a Robin Hood figure, the latter as the mercurial junkie Bubbles, an Ariel or sacred fool of the ghetto.The first and third seasons are the finest - the second is well composed but comparatively a little flat and the fourth has a well-meant but facile 'Dangerous Minds' flavour to it (although the children's acting is as good as any before or after it). Season five is too ambitious, but again necessarily. Perhaps it's too tall an order. Nonetheless it's a frank, arresting and utterly modern social drama, with everybody hustling for space in the dying city's ever-narrowing, increasingly perplexing ontological streets. 7/10
Margaret is a brave film dealing in the moral confusion following a dramatic road accident. There is an operatic-quality melodrama in both the style of the film and also the emotional amplitude of its principal, a high school girl, Lisa. Though precociously intelligent and outspoken, more often than not what she has to say is secondary to the manner in which she says it; impetuous, impassioned, loud, plangent. Anna Paquin deserves a flood of awards for this character assumption sparing very little for the audience's sympathies. The operatic character permeates the entire production. One of the significant themes of the film is that of art. Lisa's mother is a successful stage actress but requires a leap of faith in order to engage with the opera.Director Kenneth Lonergan highlights the disconnect between these dramatic arts. He suggests that her approach to a scene differs according to prior domestic confrontations at home. Carrying such experience from life into art seems more difficult or absurd to a situation in which people sing at one another - the opera. The surmounting of this contradiction, this absurdity is the task of art. The attitude of both Lisa and her mother toward opera and then their reaction to actually attending an opera demonstrate the misunderstandings and possibilities for addressing and overcoming such assumptions. The acting from the ensemble is first rate with particularly fine moments from the marquee names of Mark Ruffalo, Alison Janney and Jean Reno. Above all the script works hand in glove with Lonergan's not-always-tidy but visually daring aesthetic. The initial event gives rise to an exploded, episodic form of storytelling but Lonergan keeps it focused, pertinent. It simply does not let you go for its entire 2½ hour running time. Extraordinary 9/10
For all the furore I just found it slightly boring. As a satire - because that's exactly what it is - it works quite well, although David Cronenberg and indeed writer Tarantino himself have made better films concerned with big-screen violence since in A History of Violence and Pulp Fiction. This film is probably at once a bit of a muddle but also a more clearly defined road movie through the auteurial intervention of its director Stone: the straightforward narrative that simply wants to break off under the burgeoning killing discards the scrutiny that the screenplay's aiming for. At least we get to the end in a satisfactory manner.If you're going to make a satire about killing people in front of a camera, Woody Harrelson is probably as good as anyone to be propagating it as Mickey Knox. An intelligent actor with an outsider's flair he can bear the weight of the madness. Juliette Lewis is a less substantial actor but she's perfect as Mallory, Mickey's foil. The truly awful part of this film is entirely intentional and that is Robert Downey Jr's detestable, pulp-sump TV man Gale. I'm a bit old for it all now though. 4/10
A dense, sometimes awkward, often funny drama concerning two grown siblings trying to iron out the kinks of adulthood. Kenneth Lonergan's film is excellently plotted, with plenty of extra narrative strands and a super script. It also has what I now recognise as his directorial hallmark, economy. Some scenes last just seconds, wordlessly moving the story on. There are also brilliant jump cuts that can be funny or surprising. These techniques add up to a substantial film about how the brother and sister manage a particular juncture in the run-up to middle age. Mark Ruffalo's drop-out Terry is pragmatically unreliable; yet his social irresponsibility points us towards the personal integrity that Laura Linney's Sam finds somewhat muddled. Both are excellent. Rory Culkin is solid as the discreet Rudy Jr and Matthew Broderick plays a beautifully-judged role as Sam's flimsy-pedant boss. Lonergan almost blows his hand by deploying one of the more emotionally extreme numbers from Bach's Matthew Passion under the opening credits but the temperament of the rest of the film remains in this sequence's environs. Impressive. 7/10
The role of the paranoid-mystic and abused soldier Wozzeck is a perfect character for Klaus Kinski. Herzog is right not to interfere too much with this portrayal (and Kinski is in almost every shot) by simply setting up the camera and standing back. Kinski is typically intense, but he manages to glaze this with a perpetual preoccupation with something else, something as if off-camera.The problem is, there's nothing off-camera. The script is very close from Buchner's play but nothing in Herzog's production reflects it. There is none of the expressionism suggested by the DVD cover/advertising poster. The general look of the production is period-realist and close-framed. The action jumps, unmoderated, from one scene to the next, often losing a sense of dramatic causality. Herzog's strict adherence to the text eschews the opportunities afforded by film and left me feeling rather bereft...The crisp, document-realism of this film has only one sequence modulated with music - the one addition that could really transform it. Clearly, a production of Berg's opera on the same material has music built into it (and what music!) and, notably, music inbetween the scenes, providing the breadth and rumination that Herzog has stubbornly refused. It's a satisfactory reproduction of Buchner's text but, Kinski aside, not much more than that. 4/10
By no means a great film but one that is in many ways fascinating to watch. It's as if the studio has churned out another fantasy workplace romcom. Then with everything in place, Simon Pegg is parachuted in to play the most dreadfully irritating - yet somehow not unsympathetic - character he can possibly think of. It's a peculiar splice. The film is dead without Pegg, though it's not a vehicle; yet he is just doing an endless (and rather worn) skit without the support.There are all sorts of amusing cameos from British actors early on, which are rather fun. I would also have loved to see Bill Patterson's brief appearance as Sidney's twinkle-eyed father have been developed in some way. Of course it all curdles to mush by the close. 4/10
The second film of the Che double feature is not as successful as the first (The Argentine). The period, indeed all the action has moved on to Guevara's failed attempt to replicate communist revolution in Bolivia. There are now no mediating flashbacks and only sporadic political asides to vary and inform the narrative or temperament of the film. The ensemble is closer to the casting of a war/buddy movie and where the first film benefits from an anonymous ensemble this one is hampered by an uncomfortable smattering of stars in tiny roles. Despite these restrictions, Del Toro continues his fine characterisation of Che Guevara.It is made clear from the outset of Guerrila that Guevara is now celebrated and that his influence is high-profile and worldwide. I struggle to understand why Soderbergh et al took the decision not to make something of this burgeoning appeal as a way of enriching the romanticism of their account of the latter campaign, given the production's obvious affection for Guevara. I imagine that the ideal would be to see Guerrilla immediately after The Argentine (as I did). This puts the latter film in some context - indeed there's a sense in which the second film provides a narrow theatre in which one can concentrate and ruminate on the man after the more documentary-like first feature. The cinematic and acting vernacular doesn't change between the two though. If the second is meant as an attempt to dramatise or investigate Che Guevara the man it is not successful. Disappointing 5/10
It seemed so lush at the time but this film hasn't dated well. Whoopi Goldberg is really the only one to come out of this well as the wise-cracking medium who discovers she's not really a charlatan after all. It's the least successful of Swayze's purple patch of tough-guy romantic leads, largely because he's not a physical presence! Demi Moore is at a peculiar stage of her career where she seems unable to decide whether to be cute or deadly - again her interaction with Swayze can't quite deal with the dramatic possibilities of the back-from-the-dead concept. Jerry Zucker keeps the basic story on track though and presses the right buttons (or throws the right pots) on cue. Watch on sofa with cat and chocolate. 4/10
A cold war thriller, although it's more 'a Hitchcock' by virtue of its technical assembly. It's also an extraordinary film for having Paul Newman and Julie Andrews, two huge stars of the time, playing against their and the director's type. Newman's understated, glowering masculinity is less suited for the director's auteuristic approach; I don't believe him as a nuclear physicist either. Andrews is too composed and sharp-witted for the co-heroine. However, both do a fine job, Newman as the action-man-on-the-run and Andrews as absorbing the chain of events into which she is thrown.The film is a must see for those interested in the construction of a thriller upon the Hitchcock template. Techniques going out of fashion in the 50s are still employed as well as some unwitting novelties - the ballerina recognition sequence is extraordinary. Could have done without the superfluous bus-chase sequence though. 6/10
One has to be very careful in pinpointing the problems with this film, although I think I'm safe in saying that it's a bit pedestrian. This may be to do with the early set-up of Capote, famous author. One never gets a relative sense of his effervesence, fame or literary worth before he begins work on In Cold Blood, the novel on which the film is built.No the problems lie in having to sympathise with an author who finds himself in an allegiance and possibly abandonment to a man who has killed other men. It's extremely difficult to see how Toby Jones' Capote can have done anything other than predicate his relationship with Daniel Craig's Perry Smith on this fact as an inseparable part of all Smith was. I found this awkward at best.I'm not sure the actors sit perfectly with this either. Craig seems a bit stiff and thought Jones is magnetic he never got under my skin. A long roster of heavyweights play similarly gauged society types well enough but again, I didn't get the connection or any latter pathos. Sandra Bullock might be an anomaly, playing Harper Lee (ironically) with a light touch amidst the melodrama. Douglas McGrath doesn't help with prosaic filming - it looks made for TV. 4/10
Nicely produced Britflick. Trips along quickly with laughs at almost every punctuation point - this is a very funny film. The pace set doesn't let the film breathe very successfully though. There's been a lot of criticism that it's just an exercise in namechecking literature. Well, it isn't - that's not its purpose - but its compression might well lead one to see it as such.All the parts are very well taken. Richard Griffiths' flawed, latter-day sage is the least satisfactory. But then as the most pivotal character, the imperfections I've already addressed affect him the most. 7/10
A wonderful fantasy in which it becomes very easy to forget that the action happens, essentially, in a garden's length next to a farmer's house. What with an (inevitably) wise owl and a sage-like rat to visit a mother's search for peace for her ill son takes her on a series of episodic journeys not unlike something Jules Verne or JRR Tolkein might have rustled up.There are a couple of Disney-like madcap chase sequences and plenty of the wonder one might expect from that institution. However, The Secret of NIMH is, self-consciously, not a Disney film, and the heart of the action is rather more black, rather more Dickensian (I feel one can find bits of A Christmas Carol, Great Expectations and Oliver Twist in the story). The animation is terribly realist for a film which is a fantasy concoction; the voicing melodramatic but never patronising. A meaty Christmas watch for children over-gorged on the sweet stuff of the season. 6/10
Not Frears' greatest work. It's surprising. You'd expect a film with Hoskins and Dench on the bill to be fait accompli (especially since Hoskins is producing). I think the basic issue is one of plot. The film lurches from one situation to another but without much of a story to tell. Perhaps the project is more interested in creating an impression of London across the wars, but I think that's also a bit mangled. The clumsy interspersing of b&w Blitz footage goes from odd to embarrassing.Despite its groping messiness there is plenty to enjoy. The acting is really very good - the aforementioned megastars fulfil their box-off-stock, whipping the really rather good script into something appearing razor sharp. No-one coasts in their wake, not even the surprising Will Young. Young is employed - presumably - for his vocal prowess and star power. The former is thin, if not absent, and the latter is on the wane when I saw the film (yesterday!). So, for him as for others, good job, but do something a bit more thought through next time 5/10
As a friend once said to me, 'you need to see this film just to watch Travolta walk down a flight of stairs'. Indeed Travolta had just gone from forgotten yesterguy to one of the coolest Hollywood properties almost overnight with Pulp Fiction. This is a perfect follow up, a similarly obscure ensemble yarn but (based on an Elmore Leonard novel) that much more mainstream for those unwilling to gorge on Tarantino's bloodlust.That's not to say that Get Shorty is all about Travolta dancing to the mezzanine and back while delivering great one liners. This is a rough film, whose arm twisting is offset with panache and black humour. Gene Hackman seems to have a whale of a time as the cranky producer Zimm whose incompetent wheeler dealing sets Travolta's slick debt-collector in pursuit of his own production ambitions. Dennis Farina is a favourite wiseguy of mine, at once menacing and very funny, and Gandolfini is (necessarily) an unusual henchthug. Rene Russo is also very cool and needs to be to keep pace with Travolta's moves. It's not a satire but it might as well be. 7/10
Pretty good. Reminded me of Chereau's La Reine Margot, in which civilisation progresses slowly, wading through blood spilt on city streets. Also like that film, Apocalypto deals with issues of honour and love alongside survival as civilising powers.Frankly I couldn't give a tapir's arse about any of these themes were the film not to turn out to be a thrilling Mayan rescue opera. The sequences are all pretty stock - I was reminded variously of Mann's The Last Of The Mohicans, Spielberg's Raiders Of The Lost Ark and the gore of Gibson's own The Passion Of The Christ - but not Apocalypse Now. Gibson's touch is to make it an unrelenting, visceral document, a anthropological melodrama, the story told in sinew rather than artifice (the distinguishing feature of Francis Ford Coppola's film). To this end we even get a modern vernacular translation of the indigenous tongue spoken throughout: translation, not transliteration.Rudy Youngblood as the hero ('Jaguar's Paw') is excellent, youthful, determined but never knowing. The rest of the supporting cast are a game ensemble. As largely non-actors they are a perfect group to realise Gibson's stripped down idiom. 7/10
A heartfelt, nicely written, powerfully delivered, ineffectual propaganda rant. Sorry. Robert Redford's heart (and extraordinary blue eyes!) are in the right place and he's made a nicely succinct film from a subject that could occupy a space twice as long... but it doesn't do anything other than moan.Despite this depressing outcome, we are treated to some quality acting. Cruise is nicely cast as the belligerent, charming but profoundly insecure Republican hawk trying to sell a new initiative that's failing as he speaks. Meryl Streep is the reporter half of the dialogue but whose role is simply to emote 'the pity of war' as Wilfred Owen would have it. Redford himself gives the best performance, a professor embittered about his misled country, angry at his own apathy and guiltstricken that voicing this has resulted in fine students taking direct action. Derek Luke and Michael Peña are the said students, more effective in the discursive scenes than in the mountaintop ambush set piece around which the film orbits. Andrew Garfield is efficient as the sounding board for Redford's polemic. 5/10
Whose eyes? Yes, as the title suggests, there's more than one secret, more than one person keeping something quiet. Juan José Campanella makes satisfyingly economic use of this idea, the unspoken truths that wind around each other along the narrative like rope. The principal is a whodunnit, a flashback recollection of a rape and murder case that is solved during the second act. The other secrets are those which emerge in the present, following the unsatisfactory conclusion of the case.One of these secrets is no secret at all, an open secret, the love between the lawyers Esoisto and Irene. As with other parts of the story, time plays a significant part in enriching the value of a relationship and both Ricardo Darín and Soledad Villamil excel as cosmetically suggested older selves dealing with one another. All the other parts , though well-taken, are subordinate to this central romance, though the sacrifice of the grieving husband Morales is movingly suggested by Pablo Rago. The power of the film - which is an inexorable, overwhelming experience, - lies in the writing, its greatest asset. It also has some lovely design and photography, in particular an 'impossible' single-take shot which moves from an aerial view of a football stadium to a chase through its internal corridor system. A worthy Oscar winner in the face of particularly strong opposition. 8/10
I am a fan of Michael Mann. He's a director who understands men, both the men he depicts and those who go to watch his films. The characters are well-prepared, real, tough and 3-dimensional; their committal to celluloid, classic, vibrant and stylish.Public Enemies is a sharply observed period piece - one expects nothing less from a director who is deeply meticulous in pre-production. The action and the hand-held digital flexi-cam is dynamic, exciting and real. However, Mann said most of what he wanted to about the criminal mastermind in Heat (and Thief) and so finds himself simply repeating his philosophy whilst rather more straight-jacketed by history. Depp's Dillinger is a career thief looking to get away from it all with his wilfully acquired new moll (Cotillard) with one last big job. Ring any bells? It's possible that with Dillinger vs Purvis being so close to the MaCauley vs Hanna face-off of Heat distracted Mann from the story at hand. Well, Depp is as tight-lipped as De Niro was, but manages rather more panache. Yet Cotillard - and Bale - as Billie and Purvis are wasted, simply functional, telling us nothing. Also like many Mann films, this is 20 mins too long and features murky dialogue. I will certainly be watching it again, but in hope rather than in admiration. 6/10
A schizophrenic film. Scott Derrickson has done his best to make a run of the mill CGI-enhanced sci-fi thriller but has found himself thwarted by the remarkable screen presence of Keanu Reeves and the ghost of Bernard Herrmann.Reeves was the draw for me; where some find him laughable, I find him sober and engaging. His alien-in-a-human is at once non-porous of emotion but registers the emotional to-ing and fro-ing that decide his actions. He's a classy screen idol, well-cast. The rest of the cast (the very capable Jennifer Connelly included) are at the mercy of a truly ridiculous story both in concept and in local narrative. The gravity of the situation in which humankind as represented by Americans finds itself is only captured in the single-gear performance of Reeves and the unobtrusive but peculiar 'Herrmann' score, resurrected for the film by Tyler Bates.There's a lot of silliness - a lot of cartoonish world's end drama which, strangely, doesn't do what it purports to which is update the 1951 original. It still feels dated. We are also presented with John Cleese as a Nobel Prize winner. Well that's also ridiculous on the face of it - but I tell you something, if the end where nigh and you wanted someone leftfield to plead your seemingly intractable case, you'd do a lot worse than Cleese. As a final oddity the product placement in the film seems at odds with the frowning upon consumerism that's at it's heart. Or maybe they're companies leading the charge to save the world. It's all a bit confusing. 4/10
An understated, small-town drama about a family. Very much the sum of its various parts the film revolves around an indifferent central performance from Johnny Depp. The real success of the film is in its careful manipulation of juxtaposed characters and small, situational stories: the travellers passing through a stagnating town; failure of relationships but hope in new friends and opportunities; love and death.The wonderful cyclone of energy that binds many of the threads together is the Oscar-nominated performance of Leonardo di Caprio. He plays the mentally-impaired younger brother of Depp convincingly, sympathetically and brilliantly. I'd imagine that his performance lifts the rest of the ensemble: Darlene Cates as the obese mother of the family can be assessed on her acting rather than some disguising of her real-life girth; John C Reilly puts in a pre-The Good Girl study as a big-hearted all-American guy; and Juliette Lewis adds another achievement to her glittering canon as princess of the Indie-flick. Marvellous 7/10
Eddie Murphy's purple patch in the early 80s owes much to the mini-genre he found himself in: having fun with posh, rich, white (old) America. Loosely predicated on the story that's best known as My Fair Lady, Trading Places is a farce that marries Reagan's economic Big Bang with Murphy and his Saturday Night Live colleague Dan Ackroyd.Ackroyd's arguably a better actor but Murphy owns this movie, even if I find he looks a little wooden when asked to be earnest. Jamie Lee Curtis' tart-with-a-heart is comically reliable and camera-friendly; Denholm Elliot represents the classless control-Mensch with grace. Super 7/10
A hard-nosed, London-based thriller with the good and bad guys playing hopscotch with the thinnest of blue lines. Or at least that's the film hammering at the glass ceiling of Eran Creevy's self-penned feature, a dozen premium name British actors stuck in the limbo of the glass towers of Canary Wharf, like the bad guys in Superman 2 stuck in the mirror.Alas, there's no nuclear action to free the talent this time around, the camera rushing about and boxing them into their chrome-blue bleached out twilight. This is like a rough, gangland spin-off of Spooks occasionally perked up with tantalising set pieces - a stand off in a front room with Ruth Sheen as a granny, for example. Other set pieces are just too cash- and-imagination starved: the nightclub shoot-out; the press and hustings addresses.James McAvoy had vowed not to get butch again after Wanted but I guess there was sufficient grit promised in this to recant. All others work in vain with the production. The sound mix in the cinema I went to was awful - whether this is the film or the set-up I don't know. What Michael Mann could have done with this cast, this backdrop (begging for Dante Spinotti's camera) and, yes, this story. Ach 4/10
A very entertaining if light Vietnam film concerning an irreverent, motor-mouthed DJ who falls in love with a local during the occupation. Robin Williams and Barry Levinson haven't simply set out to make a series of shock-jock set pieces; the film is also meant to weed out the humour of the fallacious period as well. Even this ends up as another stage for the Williams routine though - his first impromptu English lesson scene is hilarious.Naturally many of the scenes were improvised. Such a technique is very high-wire as, even if it comes off, there are no extra points for not using a script. Luckily Williams seems to find an extra energy by making things up which communicated itself on the screen. In support are a sort of latter-day brat pack: Forest Whitaker is particularly good as a browbeaten friend who can't help but laugh when the gags start coming. Bruno Kirby as Lieutenant Hauk is a dependable straight guy. 6/10
Clooney plays the same murky-world operator that he gave in Syriana, but with more urban ennui (Daniel Auteuil could have stepped in if Clooney had gone off sick). Wilkinson does a good - but not quite great - job of a brilliant litigator chemically tethered from the brink of madness. Sydney Pollack does what he always does, and that which I enjoy, an indigenous New York professional of later years. Swinton presses closest to melodrama with solipsistic asides from her high-octane role running the baddies' legal affairs. There are twice as many well-taken under-roles.So why doesn't it swing? The problem is that Tony Gilroy's earnest script is trying to build both characters and plot by stealth. It reminded me of Chris Nolan's Insomnia, without the titular concept. For drawn out moments in the dialogue one sits there learning about so many characters and issues that we haven't met. It's souffléd.However, I did like the look (design and shooting) and chillingly restrained violence of the film. Worth a watch 5/10
Just like the epic, romantic rescue opera that the protagonists discuss around the camp fire and upon which the central act is predicated, Django bears great themes on its narrative yoke. Yet the Valhalla that this Siegfried storms is not the home of gods but white men blind to the iniquity of slavery. Tarantino doesn't labour his point, and his Django, Jamie Foxx, is too cool to play out a simple emancipation plot arc.Like the other films of Tarantino's oeuvre, this film is about setting up great set pieces pointed with breathtaking one-liners or bold, laugh- out-loud acts. There's none so bold as having Samuel L Jackson in his best role since Jules in Pulp Fiction as Stephen, a 'gone-native' manservant to Leonardo DiCaprio's baddie. Once he's on screen Christoph Waltz's hitherto entertaining Schulz begins to pale.There are the usual interesting soundtrack choices, not least excerpts of the original Django composer Louis Bacalov's 1960s scores. It can be long-winded and it is 20 minutes overlong but films half its length are twice as dull. 6/10
A film with a number of surprises (not least the considerable violence on screen). The novelties are outweighed by Coenisms though. This is a mixed blessing. I love the character quirks and dodgem-dialogue and particularly the way the camera's aspect highlights them.What I don't like is the microcosmic, exploded-detail episodes that that Coens insist on. Actually I do, but the problem is that it gets in the way of their story-telling. The causal tensions between chapters get lost. On a few occasions I was one of a large audience laughing at inappropriate moments: it's difficult to say for sure whether or not this was the intention. Sure, I was rather shocked at myself - but how that then fed into the story or altered my perception of what had been or was to come was equally confusing.With the talent on the screen though it's easy for the Coens to say 'stuff the wood, the trees are awesome!' I was particularly impressed-sickened by Clooney, an actor who hasn't just charmed but earned his cherry of the A-list cake status. A rich - an over-rich - and subversive film. 6/10
Impossible to fully appreciate without some back knowledge of the TV series, unevenly acted and edited so that the thin script seems positively bald in places. Nonetheless this spin-off feature is well- designed and excellently shot (against a forgiving, snowy backdrop) and keep one wriggling on the hook of waiting for the multiple twists long enough to, well, get to the end.The twists themselves, which are often a mainstay of what few television episodes I've seen, are stacked, the narrative version of the double- visual shocker in a horror. They don't make any sense, none of them. It doesn't help that the Big Yin himself is playing a psychic (+ complications). In fact it doesn't really help anything that the whole franchise limped to a stop ten years before this got made.A production for fans who I hope will be well catered for. Those of us not in the know don't know. 4/10
Truly bizarre early 60s A-list vehicle. The star appeal of Audrey Hepburn ('dressed by Givenchy') and a beautifully aged Cary Grant is undeniable - their chemistry is easy and convincing.There's a serious problem though. The film doesn't know whether it's a comedy or a thriller. The lurches are much greater than in To Catch A Thief. In that similarly Hitchcockian hybrid Grant is a less sympathetic lover and the subterfuge less mortal. Opposite Hepburn, Grant is a clown but also an openly dangerous character. Like Hepburn's neurotic widow the differences are too disparate to dovetail.Well the Grant/Hepburn show really lights up the screen whatever they're supposed to be doing. A secondary impediment however is: an outstanding supporting cast - Kennedy, Coburn and Matthau are very good indeed; excellent shooting, particularly the glorious bateau-mouche and final metro chase sequence; and a forward-looking Henry Mancini score. Even the plot promises more than it delivers. It's all supposed to be a bit more serious than it ends up and so crosses the line confused. 5/10
A peculiar one this, a rather clumsy thriller in which a hard man of brittle pacifist ideology tries to subsume the pain of his wife's murder in picking off New York's muggers. Essentially it's a vehicle movie in which Bronson can act tough, rather like Clint Eastwood's Dirty Harry.A competent script that lays out the basis for a ethically and psychologically complicated thriller is really all that's worth writing home about. Neither Winner nor Bronson seem to want to investigate the psychological points failure of Paul Kersey. Perhaps they are. I can't see through the sediment that makes up Bronson's face though. Neither is there any attempt to argue the merits or detractions of vigilantism.No acting goes much beyond automaton. You can almost see Winner's notes in action ('he does this, THEN he says that, THEN you...' etc.). Herbie Hancock's original score is a very interesting document but I found it as often as not at odds with the content of the screen. Ho-hum. Well, if watching this film allows others to sublimate their urban indignation in private then maybe it has its uses. 3/10
I never thought I'd type the words 'Holocaust comedy drama', but there it is. The strength of Roberto Benigni's brisk, slapstick autovehicle is that it leaves no room for dwelling on the mawkish - except for one brief but horribly memorable sequence in the mists of what might or might not be a terrible nightmare.At the outset one would be forgiven for thinking that Benigni is trying too hard. His happy-go-lucky aspirant bookstore owner Guido wins the girl from under the noses of parochial Facists with endless physical comedy and chat. The wearing charm turns into the essence of survival come the second half of the film. I think that the almost surreal madness of the first half serves to normalise the second.For all that Guido is not only decoy for his son in the face of the horror of a concentration camp, he is also something of a decoy for the rest of the audience. My favourite performance is that of Joshua, played by Giorgio Cantarini, only five years old during production. Sensational. With the exception of Giustino Durano as Guido's sanguine uncle Eliseo, none of the acting comes even vaguely close to these two. In the end, a super matinée that celebrates the good guys for once. 7/10
A great basic conceit. A good story and well-paced over the stretch of the film. So why does it become such a trial? Essentially the cast is chock-full of sparky, inventive and entertaining career comics whom director Shawn Levy encourages to make more of the script than is in print. Consequently there's an overflow of woolly improvisation which clogs and scuttles the zip and farce of the film on paper.It's a real shame as when I wasn't bored I found the film fresh and - for all it's discreet postmodernity - charmingly light. Ben Stiller has something but he's ill-disciplined in putting it to use: the rot starts with that. Robin Williams, Owen Wilson and a tireless Dick Van Dyke are excellent - I'm sorry to say that the English contingent (Gervais and Coogan) are just, well, sorry. Nice turns too from Carla Gugino and Jake Cherry, giving the whole meringue some substance. 4/10
At the time of writing, this film sets a new benchmark for the brilliance of the Coen Brothers, according to... well, everybody. It's certainly a gripping, thriller, with some typically outstanding characters & characterisations. Javier Bardem will be hard done by if a best supporting Oscar fails to reward his eccentric psychopath of a bounty hunter/hit-man.But hold on. Like so many Coen Brothers films, I felt cheated at the credits. Throughout the film there is a sort of Unforgiven-style nostalgia for tough-guy b&w Westernism. A fomenting point wriggles away in the tiered denouement and is utterly lost at that key moment when a soliloquy is supposed to nail it down - in perverse contradiction to the vernacular of the rest of the thoroughly engrossing, pulpish movie before. My rating for this film will climb on further viewing, I suspect, but for now 6/10
The distance of almost twenty years and someone called Christopher Nolan has consigned this and its three ignominious successors to a finite period in film history. I thought this was the best thing since sliced bread when I saw it in the cinema. In fact, were it not for Edward Scissorhands this could be Burton's masterpiece. Seriously. It achieves everything that could be expected of it. It's got not only the dystopia but also the circus-fantasy of the comic strip; to that is appended the gaudyness of the TV series - it's not camp though. Burton's not afraid to use the considerable funds he's got on tap with a wonderful series of sets and in-screen effects and vehicles.Best of all the picture bursts with charisma. Jack Nicholson is at the height of what might be described as his second period (i.e. post-Cuckoo's Nest, pre-As Good As It Gets). Michael Keaton manages his own brand of unhinged well - his Batman is a much darker, more thorough character than Christian Bale's. Kim Basinger is the perfect Vicky Vale - I'm a fan of Sean Young (originally cast) but the sharp, comic-cook blonde is what this picture needed. Michael Gough is a definitive Alfred.All this gilded with an underrated (and actually, unjustly maligned) album of original music by Prince. A great matinée. 8/10
A quirky but somehow familiar courtroom thriller. Cusack and (pre-Oscar) Rachel Weisz are the big draw, although one rents the DVD in the hope that there'll be a big Hackman/Hoffmann showdown - one is not disappointed.It's more than a four-handed lead though. The film's centre of gravity is the Jury of the title, although the drama is played out around them - this is no 12 Angry Men. In general the film is cast in depth. I'm a big fan of Bruce McGill, playing the trial Judge, a top-drawer Hollywood journeyman who always comes up with the goods.It's made in a straightforward manner although there are some mightily irritating crossfaded sequences to show the passing of time... or not (the final shot), so it all looks rather whimsical. For all my excitement about the cast the acting can be a bit pedestrian and there are some bulging bits which suggest that a longer film, trying to incorporate more of the book was made before being trimmmed down. Plus ca change. 6/10
This is a tremendously energetic movie. Joe Wright has taken a simple story of a college lad getting caught in the untidy realities of the dating game and re-fashioned it. Not only does the film reflect the emotional frenzy of being in that situation but it's also in the visual style and heightened realism of early 1990s arcade games.At the centre is the eponymous Scott, played perfectly by Michael Cera as another Paulie Bleaker type, an imperfectly focused youngster with a face that's putty to his situation. The rest of the cast are slightly more self-possessed and work at different temperaments but at the same basic speed; Kieran Culkin's laconic, gay roommate; Scott's caring but judgemental elder sister nicely done by Anna Kendrick; Mary Elizabeth Winstead's Ramona, a desirable kook in a post-John Hughes world.But it's the imagination that goes into cross cutting that reflects the games, the graphics that reproduces them and the interleaving of the different strata of reality that gives the film its zing and charm. The ideas are clever and the editing rather brilliant - if I had one criticism its that the performances are sometimes almost too conservative to keep up! 7/10
I like Tom Cruise, a bit. He has great intensity on screen, an irresistible smile and is the best stock action hero in the tricky area of running (look at Damon's Bourne or, further back, Brosnan's Bond, for comparators). He lacks a usable depth though. Cameron Diaz is also dimensionally restricted, shall we say. Yet the commensurate qualities of the two leads make for a jolly flick despite the film lurching between half-baked comedy and impossible to believe action sequences.This is a shame. The rest of the cast are entirely capable of colouring the meat of the script (it was clearly a rather good idea before it was got chewed up in an attempt to accommodate the leads). As I often say, Viola Brown adds a star to a review by the simple virtue of her being on the poster, and her brief moments are oases of class in the crashing about. Sarsgaard is an uncommon adversary, in the same way that Paul Dano is a peculiar sort of geeky youth.These caveats - and not entirely well-exploited location shoots - don't save the film though, which adequately fills a rainy afternoon, but creates a similarly sized hole in your soul. 4/10
It's a peculiar trait of such a 'horror' (more thriller, really) that although there are plenty of shocking moments they aren't really surprising. It's a bit like anodyne body flicks where A-list stars get their clothes off but the sex is so stylised that isn't particularly hot (and therefore censor-friendly).No-one's outstanding. Pacino works through about half of his gears and Keanu Reeves uses his 'charm' setting, rather than the other, familiar 'terse hero' arrangement. Charlize Theron is anonymous - in fact, I think it was this film when I first started thinking I could ignore her as yet another pretty blonde bound to pop up in production-line studio jobs of a certain budget (not the first time I've been embarrassingly wrong). The CGI is first-class for 1997. 4/10
The formula is familiar, but the result is no less funny for it. It's a homage comedy to namechecked studio action blockbusters spliced with the gentile world of parochial crime thrillers: Morse, Midsomer Murders, etc. Throughout are various tropes and re-creations of famous sequences and poses, some from specific films, others just familiar from the genre. Hot Fuzz is essentially a two hour interactive game in which one is challenged to spot what is nicked from where (my favourite is Eliot Goldenthal's score for Heat popping up).The whole cut-n-shut is held together with the familiar adhesive of deadpan observational comedy, the stuff which made the Pegg/Frost series Spaced so much fun. For those in the US watching this film, Somerfield is the perfect convenience chain for the town, continually thwarted in its aspiring modernity by bizarre or incompetent staff: a late-emerging Subaru car is the ultimate hick-wishes-he-was-taking-on-the-Yakuza vehicle of middle England.I thought I'd get tired of Wright's sub-Guy Ritchie flashy micro-montages, but I didn't. They're both ironic and highly effective at energising the film. If you're still thinking about it, knowing Timothy Dalton is in it oughta swing it. 6/10
A winner at the pitch: Cinderella will go to the Ball, only the Ball is an all-American beauty pageant and Cinderella is an ass-kicking Sandra Bullock.And so it came to pass. There are no surprises - this is a film in which one buys the ticket on the basis of expectation. However, there's more than a three-act farce and the voyeur's irony-paradise of the transformed ugly duckling having never been anything of the sort. Bullock is a fine comic actress and she's also prepared to throw herself into the slapstick of this cross-dressed tomboy role. She's great fun, in short. Michael Caine knows a thing or two about entertainment as well, feeding her the lines like the pro he is. William Shatner's a bonus in the ironic muddle of gently lampooning the pageant. Notable extras too. A flick to brighten the rainiest of days. 5/10
A really super film which works and strikes deep - despite some questionable acting. I'm really loathe to add this codicil. Yet for all that I was absorbed, I had to suspend my disbelief too often.Sinatra is the prinicpal offender in this respect, although, typically, he also shows flashes of cool, menace and an adroit masculinity that makes you wish for more. Laurence Harvey's Shaw carries the picture with a characterisiation that manages to be less believable at exactly the same pace as his mind unravels (so, an indication that my misgivings are my own problem!).There is little that can be said in flat criticism of Angela Lansbury's toxic Harpy of a mother to Harvey's Shaw though. It's a unique screen performance with a steely, Jocasta-like twist at the end, entirely aligned with Lumet's own fevered satirical sensibility. Indeed it's all Lumet. For every anachronism there are two moments of fresh, sharply observed film-making which make it more than the well-hidden thriller it appears to be. 7/10
A film that starts and ends on the railroad, the quintessential symbol of the coming-of-age of the pioneers of the West. This is a Western that looks back at its compromised foundations, trying to gauge the moments in which what seemed necessary might now been seen as backward, formative thuggery. It's a super film in which no answer is reached, where the good guys live on, shouldering the burden of the past as best they can.In a film where characters' names are more than averagely apposite, the town has a problem which unmistakably gets in the way of the America that everyone wants. Liberty Valance might otherwise have been called Liberty Veil - and it's no coincidence that the saviour of the town is a man called Ransom. Jimmy Stewart is no Christ-like figure but he is a new philosophy to the people of the place he finds, advocating education, reason, restraint and the rule of consensual law. Opposite his well-meaning but frontier-emasculated prophet of the future is the one man who'll tell it like it is, John Wayne's Tom Doniphon ('giving voice' to the facts - a bit of stretch but there it is.)Ford's achievement is telling a straightforward story and its ramifications without diluting any of its complex, intractable cross-weaving. The men have fought over a woman as much as over the future of a United States - and whether one can lay distinct claim to her, or it, is in constant, wistful dispute even as the credits roll. Superb and not least for the titanic central performances of Stewart and Wayne. 9/10
A spectacular reworking of The Fugitive. Just as that film centred on the sought, so this sequel revolves around the seeker, Tommy Lee Jones' Marshal Sam Gerard (Jones took an Oscar for his original 1993 run-out of this character, of course).It's a fairly tight, gripping film. The slack final act that dogged The Fugitive has been ironed out, so the pace is more consistent.However, the majority of the film is a recycled and re-ordered version of the first. Doubtful conviction, a spectacular escape from custody, various nailbiting chase sequences, a grand 'twist' and the comic backchat of Gerard's Marshals team. In addition this film has love interest. Wesley Snipe's highly watchable fugitive has the pretty Irene Jacob on a piece of elastic. Even Gerard has a (woefully underdeveloped) relationship.A super, if shallow ride whose manifold loose ends can't let it down. 6/10
A really very good film. The story, a traditional yarn, is admittedly very difficult to screw up. Reynolds sensibly trusts that story, telling it simply. Additionally it's well designed, well shot and Reynolds entrusts its emotional cache to the cast, controlling everything at arms length.In fact, Reynolds has assembled not just a trustworthy cast but a first class one too. Rufus Sewell, Mark Strong and the terrifying David O'Hara create a wonderful framework in which the younger unknowns can play out the lovestory. Sophia Myles as Isolde is more rounded than James Franco's permanently furrowbrowed Tristan, but both are sincere. But the film is more than a well-told tale. By letting the story unfold itself through quality role-players Reynolds carefully reveals the Celtic-Oedipal drama underneath. The Schopenhauer than mid-wived Wagner's famous account of the story is accounted for in Isolde's book (a World As Will And Idea allusion) and the Upanishad-symbol river in the final scene.Actually, as an advocate of Wagner's opera I really wanted to be able to hate this film. But not only is it thoroughly competent, it's first hour is also a useful guide to what happens prior to the action of that opera. If I've criticism it's the over-brisk early pace and occasional educational-TV look. But these are rare caveats. 6/10
Another in the series, as it now it, of Richard Linklater's dramatised talking head films (based on his own European Brief Encounter of yesteryear). Like the previous encounters, Before Midnight is a series of 4-5 set pieces filmed in rarely broken takes. The cane-sweet investigative and flirtatious exchanges of the 1994 original have been replaced with a complicated, more muscular texture of tease-and-touché. As both Ethan Hawke's Jesse and Julie Delpy's Céline say, they have 'colonised' one another.Céline seems rather more conflicted than Jesse, whose teenage charm has been replaced with dad-jokes. This all changes as the final evening of their (6 week) stay on a Greek island curdles to a bitter point. An amiable but veiled film suddenly shows its teeth - maybe a little late for me. Still, the acting is almost beyond criticism and Linklater stays disciplined in leaving it to them. 6.5/10
There's so much scope for a cracking, surreal satire, so it's a pity that this comedy has a tendency to witter. Anyone would think it's a film produced by the sloppiolipsistic Judd Apatow. Oh yes, it is.There is a super 70s soundtrack and a fair bit of well-observed period detail. The problem is that it tends to be cosmetic dressing for simpler, sillier gags. Will Ferrell is in his element, riffing on the carefully prepared setups but into one too many comic cul-de-sacs to keep my interest. Steve Carell makes the most of this arrangement even with his dead-end character. Christina Applegate is, remarkably, little more than a typical love interest.When I laughed, it was usually in anticipation of a joke, never at a dilute punchline. 4/10
With a roster of all-but-trope characters doing anything but that which you'd expect them to, it is rather wonderful that this remarkable, lovely, sage but always funny film manages to pull it all together at all. Indeed one spends the first hour wondering what's about to go wrong. The natural outcome of a 15-year-old girl wisecracking her way through pregnancy is that there must be comeuppance. Well, as with his characters, Diablo Cody manages to have his cake and eat it.In this he's blessed with a uniformly outstanding cast. Ellen Page, whilst no newcomer has bewildering assurance for the role that must carry the picture. The only reason that the too-clever-by-half dialogue of the opening half hour works is that most of it comes out of her mouth. I was pleasantly surprised by Jennifer Garner's well-calibrated neurotic mother-to-be and almost hoodwinked by Michael Cera's Paulie Bleeker. He seems to drift through much of the film, and my first reaction was to be disappointed at the waif of a part with which he was complicit. However, in retrospect he plays the teenage father, dazed in the hormone-wake of the events around him, with great accuracy and honesty. A real talent.It feels difficult to gauge the strength of this film. The portence of the opening half is not balanced with the drama of the second. A case in point is Alison Janney's worldly stepmother to Juno: is this film missing a trick when she defuses a dramatic crisis, rather than exploding it? Or is that just a facet of the precipitant quirks that make it special? I'll take the latter. 8/10
A hit waiting to happen. Drawing on the likes of School Of Rock, Still Crazy and This Is Spinal Tap, this Rainn Wilson vehicle does pretty much what you might be expecting. The difference is that the script is sharp enough to shave with and, directed by Peter 'The Full Monty' Cattaneo, it zips by, avoiding all the traps which so many others would have made a virtue of jumping into.Rainn Wilson circumvents the 'acquired taste' issue of his own comic technique with pure energy. This is a performance that matches the drive of a Jack Black whilst keeping the sentimental moments from curdling into cheese. The kids are great too. The pick of the trio is Josh Gad's Matt, a large, curly-haired Jewish misfit with outstanding comic delivery. Compared to the overrated Jonah Hill (Superbad's Seth) he is a real find. Emma Stone as Amelia operates a Kristin-Scott-Thomas-straight face but is never aloof and Teddy Geiger as Curtis negotiates the post-pubescent Scylla and Charybdis of soul searching and premature celebrity without inviting eye-rolling.There is also notable support, but one must return to the guiding hand of Cattaneo. The potentially destabilising role of Curtis' single mum (a superb Christina Applegate) is carefully controlled. The rainclouds of moralising threaten but never precipitate - instead Jeff Garlin allowed to bounce through the film simply wanting to rock out like his brother-in-law. One cannot help but be swept along. Just like The Full Monty we get a thorough, amiable film, exhausting all its possibilities with wit and without fuss.It's a clean film but with flashes of very tart humour. All in all, a super way to spend an afternoon at the cinema. 7/10
A competent, diverting action thriller. At its centre is the soft-spoken Steven Seagal, walking that fine line between gravitas and irony that boil-in-the-bag thrillers like this demand. As the one-card-short baddie we've a composite: Travis Dane, who's the mad scientist overlord and Everett McGill who's his hard-man chief of staff.Other required roles are picked up by Morris Chestnut (!) as a jive-talking porter and Katherine Heigl as Seagal's saucy, big-chested niece. All actors dispatch their tasks admirably, as do many of the smaller roles.The downsides come in some preposterously implausible loose ends, a generally silly premise and lots of cut-to-the-chase editing (often cut THROUGH the chase) for maximum exhilaration. Ridiculous, but Geoff Murphy keeps a solid grip on it - it's fairly even and always pacy. 5/10
In a week in which the world reappraises the films of the late Ingmar Bergman it seems like a good idea to revisit Persona, a most difficult film.If an average matinée may be described one in which coherent train of thought, or narrative, is rendered in a prosaic sequence of images and dialogue, Persona does not qualify. Indeed with its host of ambiguities, from the content of the slippery narrative to the beautifully rendered shots that move past the implied surrealism of, say, Bunuel, into an outright hallucination, the content and the syntax of the film is metaphorical. Here is the definition of Art-house - as opposed to experimental - and at a stroke Bergman produces one of it's defining films.The Ullman/Andersson doppelgänger is not only a gift to the (also late this past year) cinematographer Sven Nykvist but also a faithful and committed double act in its own right. Gunnar Björnstrand is, as in The Seventh Seal, a tough but compassionate masculine rock around which the women come and go, body and soul. Impressive if baffling 5/10
Of all other comparisons (Soderbergh's Solaris or Linklater's Before films) Blue Valentine forms a most direct counterpart to Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind. Like that bittersweet romance of seven years ago, the films scrutinises the highs and lows of trying to find and hold onto love. However, where Eternal Sunshine closes with a lit fuse of optimism, the only promises Blue Valentine makes are in the dying embers of ignored fireworks.This is not a cheerful film. It's shot in a hyper-real-style with very close framing. This slightly heavy-handed claustrophobia also distills the intimacy and violence that are the classic arcs of a story such as this (which is told, Don't Look Now style, in palindromic flashback).The problem is that I don't believe it. It's meant to be a story of working-class characters. As such, I don't believe the undisguised self- confidence Gosling or Williams. Part of the problem is that they are improvising a great deal of the film and they're not great at it. Their behaviour and language are studied and limited. There are a lot of repeated contrivances, a lot of meaningless, unconnected emoting. Gondry had Carey and Winslet spend time together, exchanging ideas and improvising in private but in order to bring authenticity to a Kaufmann script.Everything unravels from here. Is the film about the fallacy of making choices such as this whilst still at highschool? Is it a political film about the unbearable pressure of being intelligent, talented but working class and not getting the breaks? Their social positions are alluded to but not used to lever the drama of the relationship.I thought it could evolve into a Kramer vs Kramer drama with the excellent Faith Wladyka as their daughter Frankie but she is - as so much - underdeveloped. I never felt particularly stirred by anyone (with the possible exception of Jen Jones' etiolated but still sparking Gramma) and the film left me not at all depressed, just underwhelmed. 4/10
A marvellous vehicle for Jack Lemmon. This is not a film for the singleton to relish. Part of Lemmon's brilliance in this film is that one is never sure whether he rents out his flat in order to further himself in his company - or whether, as in the ambivalent, self-deprecating allusion at the opening, he genuinely doesn't have much of a reason to go home. CC Baxter is both lonely and alone. This also explains why he seems unperturbed by the pimping role he occupies and the easy manner in which he discusses it with his 'clients'.Shirley McLaine as Fran Kubelik is a wonderful stroke of casting opposite the drifting Baxter. She's pretty green herself. In fact McLaine has a fairly limited acting palette but cuts through the sassies and squeakies with persistent charm. There is no guarantee of a happy ending but I was begging for it by the end.There's plenty more to enjoy in this super film, from the supporting cast to some iconic shots: Baxter waiting outside a Broadway theatre with a cold is the defining image of the well-concealed bleak undertow of this rich comedy. 7.5/10
I enjoyed this film quite a bit, not least as it is a view of Wall Street without bias or judgement, a difficult thing to achieve in a film released admidst the 2009 sub-prime recession. The trailer might have one thinking that the film concerns the relationship between Will Smith's Chris Gardner and his son Christopher. This is certainly an important part of the film, but not its central strut. Rather this is a dramatisation, without self-pity, of the rewards on offer for the upwardly mobile American who is prepared to work hard.In the case of Chris Gardner that's obsessively hard. If the film lacks a dimension its that of faithfully investigating the effect of Gardner's eponymous Pursuit on both him and his son. Perhaps this is absorbed in a truly wonderful performance from Will Smith whose own, default, happy- go-lucky personality cannot be too far from that of Gardner's, a character trait that must have been instrumental in helping him to achieve his goals. It's occasionally a bit of a heart- rending, if not outright harrowing thing to watch but, as I say, steers commendably clear of mawkishness (and any easy-but-irrelevant racial dramaticism, I might add). 6/10
A wonderful, operatic film that must have inspired swathes of Ridley Scott's celebrated Gladiator. Kirk Douglas is the heroic, enduring slave Spartacus, struggling blindly towards freedom through a dangerous political web of scheming Romans who see him alternately as threat and opportunity.It's a fantastic cast, an embarrassment of riches. Where Douglas is a bristling hulk, Tony Curtis occupies the gap created for the younger, impressionable hero. Lawrence Olivier and Charles Laughton ooze feudal self-assurance. Jean Simmons is plays her love to Spartacus with grace and resolve; Peter Ustinov is a quiet, witty liberal bulwark to the drama.This was, in effect Kubrick's big break. It turns out well given its scale, maintaining the vernacular and standard essayed in the recent hit Ben Hur with success that clearly endures to date. 7/10
A road trip comedy in which a dysfunctional family come to terms with themselves. I enjoyed this movie very much. It's often a black comedy but doesn't go for big melodramatic moments. It also has some perverse, almost surreal comedy - but it always reels itself in. This is the joy of this film. Everything is consequent and believable. There is no great crisis, epiphany or disaster, just an unrolling of the circumstances. It makes you realise that the strength of the family has been there, if obscured from the start. It's hugely heart-warming.For such low-budget comedies we rely on the script and characters. All are top-notch. I actually prefer Steve Carrell in this relatively straight role, rather than trying to force laughs. Above all the (almost) titular role of Olivia is played with unfeasible subtlety by Abigail Breslin. To her much praise - and to the directing duo of Dayton and Faris much respect. 7/10
A pulp film with stylised violence, intoxication and no little tension, Killing Them Softly is a serviceable crime thriller. But from the start one is aware of TV and radio reports permeating the sound mix as all the characters seem to be tuning in, willfully or subconsciously, to the financial crisis management of the dead-end of the George W Bush administration.In fact, the manner in which this is achieved is almost overdone for me. However, the sight of James Gandolfini as a former hit-man gone to seed is typical of the excellently played roles that speak eloquently on their own. At the centre of this is a typically cool but nonetheless two-dimensional Brad Pitt in a role that requires an extra, detached facet. He's the perfect actor for a more serious version of the John Travolta character in the more light-hearted Elmore Leonard adaptations but here we need something with more gravitas. The support cast seem to have that, the idea of watching their own backs. Pitt gets steadily more angry but without the pilot light of understanding behind his eyes.An entertaining if mildly disheartening film. 7/10
Populated by sleazy criminal types this film has plenty of colour and characterisation. Ultimately it draws us onto the usual nihilistic slipway of tragedy.I like John Leguizamo very much (I thought Romeo and Juliet was going to be tame until he appears). He gives an object lesson in turf paranoia that Cube Gooding Jr would have done well to have studied for American Gangster. Naturally, the film is all about Al Pacino though, who doesn't simply re-tread the tetchy, loud-mouthed mobsters he's coined before but actually puts some effort into making you believe he wants out. Sean Penn, sporting a wig that makes clowns look styled by Vidal Sassoon is good as an out of his depth legal cockroach.
When I see bin men in a film I immediately think of the opening of Wall Street, with its fluorescent ochre dawn background. The sense I have is of the melodramatisation of an episode that defines a certain era.Wall Street is about the Olympian shenanigans of brokers-as-gods on the little people of the Big Apple in the mid-80s; Frantic has a similar disposition but with a European outlook. Harrison Ford, as an American, puts the French insouciance (and global intrigue) in relief, as well as to couch the film in a familiar vernacular. But that's it. The Americanisation goes the same way as the genre, the thriller. That is to say, nowhere you'd really expect.It's a messy film you see. Seeing a Harrison Ford vehicle in which his character has to operate outside the law is familiar but Polanski tinkers with expectation. The action drifts, and when Polanski feels that the film really is becoming Frantic, he throws in one of a number of comedy of manners-type vignettes, as Walker bumps into compatriots around the city with whom he must play the gregarious colleague (it's often very funny). On top of the supporting cast that follow in the tradition of the second French Connection film (this film's surrogate) there's the firefly French naif in Emanuelle Seigner's splendid Michelle. Her haphazard character dictates the action - it's as if her whim is laying down the rules of engagement where the disparate, confused parties cannot.John Frankenheimer's Ronin handles this Frenchy melodrama-couched- in-macrodrama much better. What Polanski does though is handle France/French-through-Paris better. Seigner's Michelle drags Ford's Walker into situations and then out of them again but not with any clear idea of how her actions are intended to help his stock rescue-drama resolve itself. I double-took the screen once to check we weren't watching Breathless.It's imperfect - its clear that Ford and Polanski aren't entirely in the same page - but its still an absorbing thriller sui generis. 7/10
Joel Hopkins? Who? Well, he makes few mistakes in this, a first big name feature. It's a capable, amiable romance with just the right undulating balance of quirkiness, drama and contrivance to get you involved. The comedy isn't overworked - there is one fleeting Curtisim - and the cheese, for there is cheese, provides Hoffman with his one moment of real command (the wedding reception speech).In fact this is my issue with this otherwise anonymous film. Dustin Hoffman has a deep-buried intensity and work ethic which has clearly done him proud (I am a fan of the disparate The Graduate, Tootsie and Rainman). However in this film his role demands A-list style charisma above character-sublimation. Consequently we get an awful lot of rictus-pout close-up which I found distracting when, presumably it should have been wry, wise or the like.Emma Thompson is better suited to the domesticity of such a drama, filmed, as it is, in her own back yard. The big winner of the film though is London, which is nicely absorbed: the South Bank may be an obvious choice (it's a key player in the centre of Four Weddings) but there is a fair bit of walking which also takes in residential West London (as it does in fellow urbamour Woody Allen's take on London in both Match Point and Scoop) St James and Somerset House. Cabbies don't say "you must be having a laugh" but that's symptomatic of all manner of genre tics that Hopkins is wise enough to capitulate to graciously. 5/10
The idea of Italians making a Western sounds like the start of some bar- room joke on its own, but For A Fistful Of Dollars is the very opposite of laughable. Rather like the competing bounty hunters arriving at the start this picture, the performances, score and heat-haze surreality seems to appear from nowhere.The story is fairly straightforward. Clint Eastwood and Lee Van Cleef (both brilliant) vie to bring down a deadly Mexican thief (Gian Maria Volontè) on the run. The twist that sets it apart is the fugitive's back story, seen in an indelible flashback through rain (read 'tear')-sodden bedroom windows to Ennio Morricone's simple, wonderfully orchestrated melody of nobility and melancholy.It's a hot, hot film, bleached, filthy and steaming. Sergio Leone's mastertrick is to sell us this morally stripped-down, existentially bleak story like it was another - if extraordinary - exciting gunslinger's flick. 9/10
Doris Day and Jimmy Stewart give all-before-them A-list performances in a thriller which has real problems on screen. A 'musical' Hitchcock, the plot hinges on set pieces with specially written scores. One is a classic screw-turning climax during a concert performance at the Royal Albert Hall; the other, the hit song 'Que Sera, Sera' is a function of the denouement. In the familiar vernacular of Hitchcockian suspense, these function well enough. Yet neither seem entirely at home. Overstatement is the simplest way to describe the insistence with which we are presented with the music in either case - both pieces are caught in a dangerous hinterland where they neither underscore the drama nor consist of it. Other irritances include a number of loose ends and some strangely protracted and over-cut sequences often in unsuccessful pursuit of suspense.As I say, the acting cuts through much of the muddle. Jimmy Stewart is a multi-faceted screen man, affable as well as ferocious. His comic sense serves him best alongside the bright-eyed Day. My favourite character is Reggie Nalder's assassin Rien, poised, sly and disconcerting still on screen. However, I can't imagine anyone has quite the acrid charm of Peter Lorre, so I'll be checking out Hitchcock's first effort at the next opportunity. 5/10
This small town coming-of-age story is well-constructed, filmed and acted. It remains a little troubling though and though it is ultimately a positive story about a neglected lad's fortunes, hope is hard won.The reason for this is in the lack of information about the other characters and their motives. The absent father is getting himself back on his feet but what was the reason he left in the first place. Is there a more sinister story to his crumbled nuclear family past? Why does the hairdresser take him on? We ask these as we see the 'dealer' care for his mother before contriving less pleasant activities. We also see a middle-class businessman shown as a forgiving victim but consequently capable of deceit himself.It is hard to contextualise a sense of moral relativism when the motives of the adults, dictating the turns of the drama, are unknown. However I found the film to have been constructed from the child's perspective - a film of moral absolutism, where the kindness of a hairdresser, a rediscovered father and an older boy go unquestioned. It matters nothing in the moment that one is sincere, one disingenuous and one scheming.Thus the bike, the inanimate object that must be bought back, or fought for after being stolen, or picked up after being knocked over. It's also exchanged in a later scene for another bike in a symbolic show of trust. Like many symbolist-realist French films the face value may seem muddled but the poetry is there to be absorbed and enjoyed in the long run. 6/10
Presumably the idea of the Rabbit Hole is an Alice in Wonderland reference. The comic that gives the film its title concerns the concept of the alternative reality. This - and the tension between religious and scientific consolation, also a theme of the film - was a preoccupation of Alice author Lewis Carroll.The film achieves a few things but one of them is not a fun evening at the cinema. There is a dewy slick of grief in every frame of the film which is not there to instigate some sort of dramatic puzzle (such as there is in Kidman's related vehicle-picture, Birth). Instead, it's a straightforward actor's piece which looks at all the different episodes contingent with grief. Taken on these terms I think it's a good film. It doesn't look to answer questions or provide false catharsis; the script and its delivery across the cast is honest, if verging on the hackneyed.Clearly this is Nicole Kidman's gig and she is very good (if not overwhelming). I'd also like to record my admiration here for Miles Teller, who has a small but crucial and highly complex role which he gets absolutely right. It's similar to Paul Dano's turn opposite Daniel Day-Lewis in There Will Be Blood, although over a much shorter span (and better, actually). This is also the first film I, with others, have ever laughed at immediately after the line 'our son had leukemia' - which tells you a lot about how much an audience might crave release during a screening, I think. 5.5/10
More loose ends than the first two, but the action is the most important function now. The film has an admirable rhythm and composition; all one need do is enjoy the repartee between Willis and Jackson - a new addition, McClane having a sidekick on a par - wait for the explosions, stunts and the delivery of the inevitable rodeo-line.It's a toss-up as to whether this is a better film than the second. To me, the film is tighter, more constructed. Consequently though we have to put up with this sort of Dr Evil-style games being played across the Big Apple. The film is also about 20 mins too long, with one action sequence too many.But Jeremy Irons resuscitates the mad-Englishman-playing-a-mad-Germanian thing to super effect and, filmed largely on location, there is a real frisson and dynamism for all its contrivances. 7/10
Che bella. It's so cool I had to wipe frost from my telly after an hour or so. One imagines Marcello Mastroianni had more difficult spans of his life than having to be chauffeur, lover and nonchalant observer of this procession of beautiful women in beautiful clothes and driving beautiful cars.Of course, Fellini means for the bustle, energy and style of chic Italian society to be attractive - seductive - as it draws the viewer in for the sucker punch of his saddening satire. And I was reeling for hours afterwards having been fed just enough sympathy for Marcello to side with him, enjoying his conquests but becoming soiled in his recurrent squalor.The gyroscopic collapse of the ethical-philosophical centre of the social whirl (Steiner) is almost unbearably horrible. The Catholic symbolism is done with panache but with real sobriety - reverence, even - in the script and on the screen. Every image is masterful (I can't help but think that Visconti will have seen the final exchange on the beach and started to imagine the end of his own Death in Venice). This film is now the benchmark for me when it comes to detail in the shot. There's always something going on and created in the new-realist style which Fellini had helped midwife; natural, original, always complementary to the focus of the action and never compromising continuity. The acting is 80% perfect (well, you can't have everything). A masterpiece. 9/10
A thoroughbred British hit. It's the best British film about a monarch since the (similarly structured) Madness Of King George and, as the lashings of Mozart hint at, a biopic worthy of comparison with Amadeus.There's almost nothing one can take issue with. Meticulously designed and shot, Hooper's film is at once artful, serious and extremely good fun. I particularly like the off-centre framing device, suggesting a ruminative Albert, always questioning how to centre himself in the world in which he is found. As the future, grudging king, Firth is spectacularly concentrated. His outbursts of temper have the same dam- bursting dynamic as the effortful overcoming of his stammer. He's also careful about apportioning his familiar charm and warmth, managing a well-pitched buttoned-upness (if you like) in keeping with the period and his station.Furthermore, similarly to Hytner's King George film, Hooper is blessed with a ensemble cast of depth. Geoffrey Rush performs the Ian Holm role of transforming the Duke-King with encouraging warmth in place of purifying fire. Helena Bonham Carter's Queen Mother is clipped of speech in the same manner as Rebecca Pidgeon's Catherine in The Winslow Boy, but with a more sympathetic charisma. Cameos range from Guy Pearce's nicely studied Edward VIII to the guignol-but-honest Churchill of Timonth Spall, with my favourite in between being Eve Best's Wallis Simpson (incidentally, as an account of the abdication affair this succinct subplot is likely to render Madonna's project redundant).Above all perhaps there's no glib invention of personal epiphany. The stammer which affects Albert may stand as a useful metaphor for the personal and political hazards with which he is faced but Hooper eschews the possibility that some single revelation transforms Albert, like a frog becoming a prince (or a penguin an albatross). Instead the film stands as an advocation of recognisable British virtues such as tenacity and stoicism, friendship and duty. A historical dramatisation that informs about the past whilst illuminating the present, entertaining, surprising, serious and sage this is a surefire hit for the awards season but, more importantly, an instantly classic bulwark of British cinema. 9/10
It's pretty straightforward. The natural drama of a tennis tournament - THE tennis tournament - is surely a feature film flatpacked. Throw in beautiful people (Bettany and Dunst), their lovematch subplot, a dysfunctional Britfamily backstory and it can't really go wrong.And it doesn't go wrong. It perfectly charming. But for all that charm (Brighton at dawn & dusk, James McAvoy as cheeky, incompetent-cyclist younger brother and countless Wimbledonisms recycled for the big screen, principally John McEnroe) it has plenty of Working Title's now-familiar plot holes: the unlikely swearing Brit, the shoehorned-in Yankophilia, the obsession with sex... it's a film that will do best if shown during the tournament fortnight to distract the queueing British faithful. 5/10
This is a delightful film, a stylised but not disingenuously rendered tale of growing up. The central, catalytic act has the potential to confuse - are we watching the fantastical vision of an emancipated pair of pre- pubescents played out in the moonlight on a beach? Or is this more the familiar transformation-within-metaphor of the stormy final scene proper. The rites-of-passage extend across the cast and a scout master is presented with his Waterloo - almost literally - too.This formal frothing detracts nothing from the charm of a film made with real love and a sense of fun that was denied him in the animation of Fantastic Mr Fox. All the cast are wonderful, especially the children. One of the biggest characters is British composer Benjamin Britten, whose music seeped into Anderson's conception almost unwittingly but whose themes of guileless wonder expressed (in music) is what the film is all about. 8/10
This does not star Kurt Russell, but rather allows him what amounts to an extended cameo. This work is more centered around the "son of" story line than it is the actual super heroes themselves, thereby failing to deliver the appropriate level of entertainment, and contributing instead, that enigmatic substance known as "kid appeal." I expected more. But having said that, there is more to this work than meets the eye. The story is modeled after the old classic "B" science fiction movies we hate to love, but do. The effects are nothing spectacular, but are still above what you would expect, all things considering. And beneath the camp, lies a stronger feeling, reminiscent of a classic superhero story, yet it still fails to achieve the desired affect; if only marginally.It was entertaining and I still had great fun in watching it.This rates an 8.1/10 from...the Fiend :.
A classic wiseguy flick, a classic Scorsese. It's dynamic, funny, and rewrites the accepted lines of exhilaration and disgust by mixing panache and violence. Scorsese has created a great document of the mobster life that can stand alongside Coppola's famous Godfather films. Yet he's done it in his own inimitable style, bursting with the energy of the four decades it takes in.From the off the film's temperament is dictated by Ray Liotta's career-defining role as Henry. His behaviour is dictated entirely by self- interest - Liotta manages to establish a wonderfully neurotic, porous self-awareness that means he's always an outsider trying too hard to please the paymaster... most of the time that means Paul Sorvino's outstanding, pre-Gandolfini capo, and of course very different bosses call his tune at the denouement. The film is also notoriously a playpen for the more outré behaviour of Joe Pesci, a guilty delight. Lorraine Braco is equal to her considerable supporting role as Liotta's moll. 8/10
It's difficult to put the external parasite of Ridley Scott's Alien out of one's mind at first. I really liked the conceit of a clockwork device housing the immortal bug - it turns on the Gothic and severs any sci-fi ties. However, we are shown next to nothing of the demonic insect housed within and even less of the nature of he Faustian pact that Jesus gets sucked into.This shouldn't matter, actually. Del Toro's film is about the relationships that Jesus has with his daughter (& wife). Del Toro tries, with fair success to sidestep supernatural issues and concentrate on the human dilemma - whether to live forever and how it affects one's behaviour. Federico Luppi and Tamara Shanath (Aurora) are pretty good. Though I tend to like Ron Perlman, there's a strange datedness to his acting which can lurch over into B-moviedom now and again. 5/10
Generally thought of as the third of the 'Dollars' Westerns, this sprawling Western quest flick (a Questern?) could as easy be counted alongside the other two Once Upon A Time films. A constant satellite narrative is the Civil War, a pitiful, bleak subplot to the search for the gold.In fact it's entirely possible that the mangled and weary infantry that crop up all over the picture were the reason Leone made one of his principals such a clown. Gian Maria Volontè, the Latin star of the first Dollars films, was a natural first choice for Tuco but instead the more spirited Eli Wallach was cast and this really makes the film. Tuco, tellingly monikered 'the ugly', is neither bad nor good, a bandit with a heart of (for) gold. Wallach's exuberant performance not only offsets the misery of the War but also acts as a welcome foil to the now familiar 'cool' of Eastwood and Van Cleef.An epic, episodic affair, The Good, The Bad and The Ugly uses all the tried and tested components of its predecessors - startling Morricone score, unmoderated dirt and heat - whilst broadening itself to accommodate the grand sentiment and vista of the War in the background. A Western for Lord of the Rings fans. 7/10
An assassination thriller in the mould of Day Of The Jackal, In The Line Of Fire has the added twist that Eastwood's old-timer bodyguard Frank Horrigan is troubled by past failure on the job. The chase becomes personal as John Malkovich's reptilian assassin Leary taunts him over this neurosis - with the rather clunky exception of the love of a good woman (Russo's Lilly Raines) nothing's going to set Frank's mind at rest than taking Leary down personally.Malkovich is a volatile presence - not simply combustible on screen but often a changeable actor too. This is one of his good films, focused and playing director Petersen's game. Eastwood is too old but a) the audience don't care, cos it's him and b) his age is written into the script, not only in the narrative but also as a recurring joke. Pretty much as you'd expect but well-handled. 7/10
This amiable martial arts parody succeeds for two reasons. Firstly, animation lends itself to something as frenetic and precise as a martial art. All the punchlines (literally, as well as figure-of-speech) can be advantageously highlighted.Secondly, and slightly more complicatedly, is the peculiar appeal of Jack Black. At his most entertaining, Black manages to straddle the line between podgy clown/loser & hero with the transformative power of his wit and good lines. Kung Fu Panda has a somewhat hackneyed script in which the clumsy Panda finds virtue and value in himself. But with the magic of animation this virtue can extend to making him a hero in 'real' terms. To have the fat kid learning Kung Fu via snack-bribes only to triumph by accident would have been rather patronising.It's nice and light, very fast and not overburdened with humour winking at the chaperoning adults in the auditorium. I was left cold by Angelina Jolie's Tigress though - a genuine weakness - but all in all a super Chinese-themed event movie warm-up for the Beijing Olympics. 6/10
The accepted wisdom about sequels is that they tend to be less good than their predecessor as there is no story left to tell. The second Godfather is an embarrassment of riches in as much as there are two stories; the back-story of Vito Corleone's arrival in America and that of Michael making good his grip on the inherited business.All the fine film-making that made the first so rich has been replicated and improved in this most handsome movie. Again we begin with a great set-piece (a Catholic confirmation) as a swarming expository melange of character and situation but which takes its rather more sober tone from the film's prologue, telling of Vito's flight to America. The familial infections that poison this particular, warped Italin-American dream are doubly intense given that Michael is now the capo - where the threats of the first came from without, now there is danger within.Pacino's performance is first-class, never once resting on the laurels of his previous Oscar nomination. He is matched across the board by the rest of ensemble; Diane Keaton, Duvall and the twitchy Cazale are fine, and I've always been a fan of Talia Shire whose performance as the Michael's widowed sister is a magnificent, discreet study in intractable sororial bitterness and love. A deeply sad and violent movie but one which never rules out the possibility of sympathy or redemption. An awesome achievement. 9/10
I'm waiting for the first exploitation-rescue action thriller to be set in London Bridge as they will have to call it Die Shard. That's the legacy of Bruce Willis' greatest hit which is the inescapable template for this sort of ride, a ride I'm happy to take over and over again if it's this much fun.Well, almost. I can do without the self-consciously up-to-date language, the stock emoting (that Dad-n-daughter dribble) which is a pox in modern Hollywood. I don't believe that Jamie Foxx is the President any more than I believe that a girl with a flag can force a providentially ordered air strike (if John McCain cannot stop a 747 landing with a flaming torch then lower thresholds really are nonsense).However, Roland Emmerich is right on board with the preposterousness of the situation from frame one. Detail is a low priority to big guns and one-liners and the film benefits from it. 6/10
I was rather looking forward to this: a breezy romcom with Sandra Bullock doing what she does best, i.e. slapstick à la sex. Alas the whole thing keeps veering off into scenes where script or storytelling seem to have been banned. It's terribly disappointing as the concept (sort of Green Card meets New In Town) has legs - which are summarily whipped from underneath it.This is all, unequivocally, the fault of the director. Clearly there is a fair bit of improvising going on, which, in a genre movie like this, means padding in place of ideas. The coverage shooting of these bits is a mess, most notably the 'scene around the buoy' which has so many edits for a non-eventful 5 second stretch its clear that something has been re-ordered in post-production. Worst of all is a spectacularly unnecessary scene involving the comedy Granny (the charming Betty White) which manufactures the opportunity to introduce utterly inappropriate urban dance music. A truly bizarre five minutes.Bullock is good - no more. Reynolds is marginally better, although he could lighten it a touch. I'm sure his masculinity has considerable appeal but he can be slightly aggressive. The support cast are largely anonymous, with the possible exception of the luminously beautiful Mary Steenburgen who seems to have the measure of the flick just right, that is to say light, pleasant and graceful in the face of embarrassment. 2/10
Animation has to be very good indeed to keep my attention. Who Framed Roger Rabbit? manages the task well enough. It's comic whodunnit in which Bob Hoskins' misgraphopic private eye finds himself dragged into the cartoon world by the sort of noir femme fatale Humphrey Bogarde could never resist, Jessica Rabbit (not a rabbit but could easily have been a Playboy bunny). The drama can be tough with real terror and tension in the drawings and their animation - but it's cuddly really, with even the firearms and their munitions have lovable faces in this parallel world.Hoskins is terrific, really game and works very hard to integrate himself convincingly with the graphics. The voicing is wonderfully over the top, particularly the multi-purpose Charlie Fleischer as the neurotic Roger and Katheleen Turner, no less, as the vamp Jessica (who has separate body and singing doubles). Christopher Lloyd is the sinister Judge Doom. Good to cheer up a dismal weekend. 6/10
A Watergate-period surveillance thriller that is much more than the sum of its parts. Gene Hackman's Harry Caul is an unorthodox existential hero. A man whose job it is to uncover and record information he's naturally sensitive to exposing himself. This is out of fear rather than lack of interest - he's prepared to go to confession - although it does mean that he's isolated, lacking love and real friends.Coppola skillfully blends the solemn professionalism of Caul and the portence of what his subjects appear to be discussing with this pitiful isolation. The story begins to dribble out of the grip of sanity as Caul's conscience attacks him in his dreams and then in what could be reality, Coppola producing a visual psychodrama comparable with Kubrick's contemporaneous The Shining. Complete with a first class cast and a wonderful bluesy score (you'd be forgiven for thinking that you're in New Orleans to begin with) this is a classic of modern neurosis that has been borrowed by many less successful imitators. 9/10
A Serious Man returns the brothers to their milieu, after the experiment with more generic characters in No Country For Old Men. Actually it could be said that the stereotypes peppering A Serious Man are equally generic, only one might have to concede that it's a genre invented by the Coens in the 1990s. The characters try and make their way in a post- war America asleep between the increasingly symbolic old world and the cultural revolution. I see the storm of the denouement not as a destructive force but as something that will mix things up - morally, culturally and, yes, geographically. In this respect it reminds me of a scene in the TV show The Sopranos, where two wiseguys go to collect protection money from a Starbucks. They are turned away by the baristas who have to refer all decision - including this - to a head office.For all that this is a nicely composed snapshot of an overripe America, I found it tricky to pick up purpose, a real drama. Like the rabbis that Larry tries to consult there are stories - poetry - but no conclusions. There's almost a sense of inventory about this film, as if the Coens creating tableaux to make a note of the characters they've encountered in life and work. It's done with compassion and humour but I don't find it illuminating. 5/10
Taut, stylish, touching and disgustingly misogynist. LaBute's small-scale kitchen-sink parable about men in the workplace is a dead-eyed look at lost love and fads: timeless truisms and modern trends that favour the unscrupulous opportunist. One might see it as a warning shot across the bows of the media-invented demands on men trying to decide between new-laddism and burgeoning 'metrosexuality'.Either way, Aaron Eckhart's vile, not-quite-alpha male Chad goes in search of promotion and kicks by luring the impressionable Howard (Matt Malloy) into mistreating a new secretary, Christine. Pulling these sorts of office stunts is bound to complications and LaBute has a beautiful twist for the mix as well. Quietly demonic and horribly accurate. 7/10
After a pretty good start Battlestar Galactica settles into a comfy crevice somewhere between Star Trek and a serious TV spin-off of Starship Troopers.I managed season one, before which I saw the 3 hour miniseries (which is pretty much necessary). The end of the world is desperate and exciting place to be and the distended feature-prequel makes the most of it. One can also see the seed of the show's descent to complacency though: the scene in which the human finally meets a long-awaited Cylon diplomat has dramatic potential but is over-cooked with melodrama... and sex.I think this is my biggest worry about Battelstar. As the newly incumbent president points out in an early episode, with only 50,000 humans still alive the species should be 'making babies'. How on earth there is so little actual sex in the close confines of a fleet of space ships under the emancipating trauma of near-collective death and the euphoria of (temporary) survival is something I found difficult to process, especially given the fertile ground of the explicit dramatic thread, the military vs the civil.It has mixed production, although the space sequences are very up to date, with interesting camera post-production and sound design. The rest of the designs stick roughly to the original: materials are updated a little, although beloved, signature impracticalities, like the ubiquitous octagonalisation of everything from paper to picture frames is maintained. The acting is only average, I'm afraid. Mary McDonnell is a convincing emergency president and Edward James Olmos a stoic Admiral Adama. Tricia Helfer's half-Cylon no.6 is an interesting character in an under-exploited relationship with James Callis' equally interesting is excessively rendered doctor Gaiaus. Of course, naming Helfer's infiltrating harpie-ego after the principal character of TV show The Prisoner probably sets its own bar too high. Watchable but deeply imperfect. 5/10
A pleasant, touching film about the family and how easy it is to let the good things slip. Megan Holley's script packs in an awful lot very quickly; Christine Jeffs makes a virtue of this but allowing some of the information to remain obscured and only come to light slowly. It's well- controlled, uncoiling at just the right pace. Once or twice I felt that pay-off lines or situations didn't work, but the general idea is commendably done.Amy Adams leads from the front and, on the strength of this if not half a dozen others, must be the next A-list megastar waiting to happen. Her support ensemble is sound, although I feel that Emily Blunt is a weaker actress than the fawning British press would have one think. Her rather studied approach was also a weak link in The Devil Wears Prada.No, the real winners of this film are the production team, top to toe - I particularly liked John Toon's fresh, spring-bleached photography. 7/10
'Why are you running away?' asks the passenger Jack Nicholson's journalist has picked up whilst making his whimsical, motiveless 'escape'. Maria Schneider is probably not the passenger of the title though. One gets the feeling that Antonioni intends Nicholson to be the Passenger of whomsoever's identity he has adopted as a vehicle. Such is the typically stratified nature of Antonioni's intentions, although this is a well-constructed thriller to boot.After some thought I'm obliged to commend Nicholson's performance. I found him trying, preoccupied - alternately paranoid and bewildered. However, I suspect that this is the natural state of the modern existential hero, troubled by a lack of self-awareness (unlike Meursault, for example). I'm rather glad I can revisit this performance on DVD.Maria Schneider then is perhaps more conventional in her corresponding role, independently-minded, alive but unruffled by the peaks and troughs of this unexpected and unexplained flight. I enjoyed her performance immensely: earthy but otherworldly she seems to be more in touch with the existential facts that elude (or perhaps frighten?) Nicholson. Consequently she is sexually stirring in the way that Jenny Runacre (as Rachel Locke) was merely titillating.As in other Antonioni films one feels that the rest of the cast are auteurial puppets, which is fine, actually. European summer is well-captured, as are the recurrent images of churches which seems to be Antonioni's thematic image of choice here. Fred Zinnemann's The Day Of The Jackal (made a couple of years prior to this) may make for a better existential Euro-thriller but this is a more soulful, first-person pursuit of modern self. 7.5/10
How's it going to end? That's the question you can't help asking yourself, despite the fact that the film starts with an end, at a hospital bedside. Like all great love stories, The Curious Case... wraps the central couple in a the most inevitable of tragedies, which takes on extra poignancy by the palindromic nature of the individual's histories.This is a good film but, overlong, overwrought and over-stated, it is not Fincher's greatest achievement. The tacked-on background of hurricane Katrina approaching might be emotionally attuned but it's clumsy. A central sequence in Paris and a clock-as-Dorian-Gray's-Picture should have been consigned to the cutting-room floor. There is clutter.However, I was entirely convinced by the love affair of the central couple, Brad Pitt's eponymous Benjamin and Cate Blanchett's Daisy, both in fascinating make-up. It's also an awesomely photographed film - it's hard to imagine one in which Brad Pitt will look more desirable on screen. It's a peculiarity of this film that Benjamin is more of a spectator than a participant (not least as his story is told in voice-over as narration-after-the-fact) and consequently his acting can be a little inhibited. Cate Balchett however is utterly captivating: whilst the entertaining Taraji P. Henson as Queenie is a reasonable Oscar nominee, Blanchett, thought studied, is reason alone to watch the film.A 21st century Lovestory 7/10
A sidestep from his teen comedies of the period, Planes, Trains etc. allows itself to be more straightforwardly funny, knowing that it doesn't have to try so hard with the emotional knife twist come the end. A film for which the tired blandishment 'life's a journey' could have been invented, there is actually no rite-of-passage. It's simpler. We aren't being talked through a new contemporaneous youth but reacquainted the farcical everyman.Steve Martin seems to be happiest when things go wrong, or rather we laugh most easily at him when he's up against it. John Candy plays one of his least well-fitting misfits... like an elegant chess game one can see the end coming quite a way off but can only admire the manner in which it plays out. Heartwarming 7/10
With a large cast of varied experience there's a sliding scale of people taking it seriously or having fun. Chief clown is the monstrous, ideologically fascist Sebastian Shaw, who is the vital B-movie totem. His sidekick played by January Jones can't make up her mind, so lets her 60s-space-age-couture-clad body do at least half of her talking. Michael Fassbender doesn't really have much of a choice, playing Eric/Magneto from that point where he loses his parents in the Polish ghetto. Of course, that's no privation - Fassbender is most effective when being serious and slightly crazed. This is the second film (after Inglorious Basterds) in which he terrorises in German in a bierkeller. Similarly, McAvoy (Xavier) has to be twinkle-eyed charm which is the ideal manner for him to find a role in a superhero flick (having found the body-fascism of preparation for Wanted so intolerable).During filming Nicholas Hoult and Jennifer Lawrence were seeing plenty of one another both in and out of character, and it shows with a terrific on-screen chemistry. Lawrence's Mystique is the only character to improve on Bryan Singer's original (Rebecca Romijn). Rose Byrne fits into this ensemble as the ordinary human nicely.Vaughn proves a good choice for this picture. He already has form with the study of warped superhero psychology (in Kick-Ass) within an action movie. But he's also attuned to the rather wider social guy ropes that hold the drama together. This film manages to push the assimilation/toleration business and its peripheral arguments once again, plainly but without hectoring - in fact, once character, 'outed' as a mutant even quotes the now defunct US military policy verbatim, saying: 'Don't ask, don't tell.'For all this (and some impressive CGI) its still rather by the numbers. I also take issue with Vaughn's blocking for the shot frame, always in a line, stage-y in the worst sense. All in all good fun though. 6/10
Paul Thomas Anderson's first really good film. He has around him what turns out to be a fantastic cast - even Mark Wahlberg manages to be good in this, although I suspect that Dirk Diggler had probably suffered a charismectomy in real life. Julianne Moore lends a heavyweight presence to the early (and, in the memory, very explicit) sex sequences which might otherwise have just rendered the film rather brittle. Burt Reynolds is a potent presence although he's not got the skills to really tug at the heartstrings - instead we have to rely on William H Macy to get at the heart of the tawdriness that everyone else thinks is such fun.What I like about PT Anderson's style is that he's not beholden to the noble tradition of screen vernacular. The natural movement of the film is different, more insistent - there are fewer edits, unusual perspectives and longer takes (it's no surprise to learn that, whilst on set, he shot a music video for a contributing artist in a single take). 6/10
My first question was quite a while ago, and one that's prevented my seeing Corbijn's film until now. Is there any point in a biopic of Ian Curtis after Michael Winterbottom's masterful 24 Hour Party People? Corbijn's version of Curtis' brief life is a Mancunian kitchen sink drama. The music that brought him fame features. However it is on the growing pains of maturity and the onset of epilepsy that Corbijn's interest lies.And by interest, I mean camera. There are some pretty good images in this b&w film, mostly from static or firmly dollied cameras. They take in the industry-fecund skyline of Manchester as well, with its brutal modernism but occasional romanticism (Curtis quotes Wordsworth to win his wife Debbie before is running across the steep, Byronic Cheshire countryside almost in the same sequence). I particularly liked a virtuosic Jekyll-and-Hyde tracking shot, revealing (literally) the other side to Curtis on his way to his day job.It's a pity that the gig intensity that Winterbottom generates in his film is simply not present here. Perhaps Corbijn feels that the music isn't really that interesting a part of the man Curtis' story, but I can't see that distinction myself. Sam Riley's turn as Curtis is very good, although it has loose pockets of inconsistency. I want to accuse him of a lack of intensity directly, but, like I have observed, Corbijn obviously wanted the impact of the music toned down in a bid to focus on the reflective youth, the man outside the music. Samantha Morton is utterly brilliant in support. I was also impressed by Toby Kebbell's Gretton who manages the chancer's dour charisma even better than Considine did for Winterbottom. 6.5/10
There's not much to get one's teeth into. The way it works is this. Lord of the Rings-epoch fantasy baddies posture and emote; fantasy goodies deploy modern irony to puncture the bubble. As the film goes on, the bad guys get comeuppance for all the hot air; the good guys lose the irony for earnest posturing and emoting.Inbetween there is a never ending precipitation of Guillermo del Toro's wonderful imagination on the screen. This has its own value, although it does mean we don't get anywhere near the Golden Army of the subtitle until... well, I left the cinema, bored after an hour and a half and I still hadn't seen them. The fight scenes are dull, blurred blends of Capoeira ballet and graphics. Any interesting ideas in script and subplot are nipped in the bud. 3/10
More of the same but this time given the spirit-of-James-Cameron treatment (by way of homage to Gojira and King Kong). Julianne Moore is the integrity-armoured good guy on this run whilst Sam Neill is, presumably, catching his breath for number three. Jeff Goldblum is back though - just as well as Moore suffers from humourectomy. Vince Vaughan and Pete Postlethwaite are also drafted along with the usual gaggle of moppets.The action is more venal this time - if the animals cannot be corrected corralled and exhibited then they will be hunted. Postlethwaite is the tobacco chewing big game specialist who provides the Cameronian cut and thrust of the exciting second act and the third returns us to mainland America for a Godzillaine knees up. Good, clean, if rather more predictable fun. 5/10
As one does, I felt myself scrabbling to get a grip on some sort of vernacular as I started watching Ivan's Childhood. This is well-nigh impossible for the first five minutes. It opens with a virtuosic dream sequence, a weightless Utopian collage of light and love which Tarkovsky comes back to with commendable irregularity during the rest of the film.Inbetween is an expressionist vision of the end of conflict: cramped, shadowy interiors and razed landscapes (and here I did see an echo of contemporaneous Polanski: Repulsion cross-stitched with A Knife In The Water). The enemy's felt but hardly ever seen or heard. Instead the sad absurdity of war is played out in a triangular relationship between a mordant Captain (Kholin), his sapling Lieutenant (Galtsev) and the titular child, Ivan. The opening sequence (proper) is strong and all one needs to know for the rest of the film. Ivan is confident, petulant. Galtsev is green. Kholin, when he appears, is a father manqué, with words of tough love - but love nonetheless.I think that this is a fine film, although I watched it often with more admiration than love - there's an earnest poetry that can be self- conscious. Clearly there is a new approach to conflict cinema being forged, one in which the object of war is dispensed with and instead the viewer is saddled with the same claustrophobic, warped and banal experience as the principals. Meanwhile, through all the charred apocalypse, Tarkovsky still manages fine images of beauty. As such there's a new, valid attempt at rendering the experience of war. 6/10
A sort of bastard cousin of The West Wing. The team behind this film is partisan - would you bother to go poring over the vagaries of the 2000 Presidential Election fiasco if you'd won? - but it makes a reasonable attempt to render facts.The drama is populated by a large number of Hollywood's cream: great turns from Dern (playing Katherine Harris as a mad glamourpuss), Spacey, Leary, Hurt and an unlikely but ultimately convincingly greasy Tom Wilkinson. Bruce McGill, my personal benchmark for a worthwhile, echt-American drama also has a small role.The candidates themselves are only ever seen face-on in archive footage, of which there is a smattering (Liebermann selling his man down the river, Dan Rather calling the election). The issue of disputed voting cards is helpfully animated. Like The West Wing, a lot of the legal and political arguments are more foggy and we rely on another scripting device, the coup de précis, which is often bitterly ironic.Towards the end, Wilkinson's James Baker makes a short speech in which he says that 'the system worked - there were no tanks on the streets'. At face value he's right: the oft-stated desire for democracy-showcasing resolution has come good. Yet, at the end of a less than satisfactory decade in American political leadership, one cannot help watching the drama lamenting an election secured by sleight of hand and shake your head with regret. 6.5/10
Not at all bad. Crowe is a grizzled, overweight reporter with the Washington Globe who can smell the big kill of a story behind the various countermeasures being thrown in his path. The sub-content of the movie is meant to concern the relevance of print journalism in a world that has a surfeit of blogs, 24 TV news, etc. but this never really catches in the imagination. That said the end titles run over a montage of a modern printing press doing its thing. An engrossing two minutes, the labour in it is an appropriate coda to the substantial investigative journalism that has gone before.It's a healthy cast of A listers: Rachel McAdams is the rookie chasing Crowe's tail (she's also cast as a 'blogger' for the paper, and as I've said, this is superfluous); Ben Affleck does a solid turn as a shifty politician-husband and Robin Wright Penn is his wife (I suspect there's quite a bit of her on the cutting room floor); Helen Mirren 'is' Perry White. Tehre's a good cameo from Jason Bateman.It's hand-held-o-rama most of the time, the script's fine and it keeps you guessing. 6.5/10
An opulent, decadent film. Lashings of violence, glamour, attitude and toxins accompany a roaring freefall of a performance from Pacino - the only performance, incidentally, worthy of de Palma's project. Many of the others seem as much of an anachronism as the period. I enjoyed Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio's Ophelia-like demise and the old-school confidence of Harris Yulin's cop-on-the-take; but the others play out the flashy Miami types like puppets.Pacino is a quite extraordinary presence. Given that he's already created his own mountain range-characterisation of an accursed power-monger through Michael Corleone, the fact that he finds a new, coherent grand potentate is quite a wonder. For all Pacino's nuclear presence though, one should also see this movie for the production and set design; location Columbia & Miami and the grotesque Valhalla to ill-gotten consumption that forms the final shootout are first class. 6/10
Marnie is an example of how the Hitchcock formula fails. To be fair it doesn't help that this self-monikered 'sexual thriller' was made in the still-censorious early 60s. Consequently the contemporaneous cinematic vernacular can pass a modern audience by. I learnt that there had been a 'rape scene' in the film by watching the documentary appended to the DVD after having seen the feature.The acting's OK... however, the strong, natural charisma of Connery (on the precipice of superstardom) and the post-Birds self-assurance of Tippi Hedren struggle wretchedly against Hitchcock's meticulous commitment to the prepared gameplan. Minor parts, with more leeway, are more successful (Bruce Dern's tiny cameo is as good as anything in the film).I enjoyed the robbery sequence and Hitchcock's commitment to a difficult subject. But there is too much by way of hit-n-miss, loose ends and laboured set pieces. The matte drawings are often too exposed. The psychodrama is rammed down our throats, particularly jarring when the protagonists specifically treat psychoanalysis with disdain.In the current remake epidemic sweeping the industry, here is a film that would really benefit from one. 4/10
Scorsese is nothing if not a cineaste and this intense but raggedy film does a strong line in homage. If there's a genre it must be Noir as grizzled detective Teddy Daniels (DiCaprio) tries to get to the bottom of what is, on the face of it, a "missing persons". Yet from the start it all seems as queasy as the ferry journey to the Island. A mixture of flashback and grotesque surrealism recall the stylised horror of The Shining, and the increasingly bizarre, inward-looking circumstances of Daniels' search for truth invoke the 1960s TV show The Prisoner, complete with the central significance of a lighthouse.It's a robust film, a B-movie in many respects. I'm not sure one can really enjoy it on this level though. The film, with its fine images, resonant themes and script of earnest universal metaphor reaches out to the audience. This is no disposable flick. Consequently I was drawn in and found myself recoiling with greater than average horror at the considerable violence and horror. As an out-and-out psychological thriller though it has all manner of simple devices and loose ends which undercut its credibility. It's an intense film, boiling with ideas and episodic vision but it's simply too confused.A case in point. The film is generally over-cast, an over-indulged luxury of having a big name director. Emily Mortimer, Ruby Jenkins, Ted Levine and possibly Patricia Clarkson are all too familiar for their role in a schlocker; their roles too incidental for each actor in a psychological drama.DiCaprio's professional management of this impossibly extreme role is admirable However this film did not sit right with me, although I found myself often fascinated and intermittently entertained. 5/10
An odd, strangely distasteful movie. It's a noirish pulp adaptation, that much is clear. Nasty things happen. It's all rather nihilist, with very little inbetween to relieve the depressing sensation of a life seeping away.Two things prop up this rather negative situation. The first if Casey Affleck's remarkable, Meursaultian turn as the psychopathic Lou. He manages an attitude that is always just one side of pleasant or pestilent whilst suggesting the other. It's quite something to observe. (I'd also like to mention this as the best work I've seen Kate Hudson do). The second is that his behaviour has some sort of obfuscated explanation. There's probably a reason for his murderous aggression, shown both in flashback to moments in the orbit of domestic abuse and in the strangely knowing but worrisomely restrained behaviour of his neighbours and colleagues towards him.It's this second, implied justification for Lou's terrible, easy violence that has me disliking this film though. Sketched out in the initial voice-over about conservative social protocol and then fleshed out in the knowing but stand-offish behaviour of the (male) townsfolk, the suggestion is that there is acceptability of this violence, an uneasy detente with its natural, ubiquitous occurrence. In an awkwardly rendered scene, Simon Baker's Hendricks takes issue with this but is brought up short by an attending officer - there but for the grace of his god goes he. Ultimately its the honesty, (again) Meursaultian openness with which Lou goes about his acts of violence that jar with the more discreet townsfolk. Lou is more conversant with his existential person, reading searching texts and listening to music that confronts this purpose-at-world's-end conundrum. He's an outsider in this regard and the community deal with him accordingly.However, Michael Winterbottom's film doesn't really deal with this meta- issue convincingly. The noir style of the film isn't fully formed. The questions that the equivocal responses of Lou's colleagues throw up aren't formed either, let alone answered. The film's purpose isn't properly stated and becomes a mush, like the face of one of the women that Lou beats.We've been lectured on violence on screen in this way before of course, by Haneke in Funny Games and Cronenberg in A History Of Violence, although I'm not sure that Winterbottom is being didactic about the audience's appetites. However what he is interested in strikes me as elusive at best. 4/10
An exemplar movie, making rules as it goes along, creating legendary scenes and characters. Above all it's very entertaining, full of humour and grand drama. This is due, in no small part of course, to the indelible score of Ennio Morricone whose whistling and jaws-harp thematics are the most pungent since Anton Karas' zither in Carol Reed's Third Man. The music itself is also a triumph of economy and occasional operatic gesture.I actually remember Van Kleef and Eastwood's performances being better than they are, but then I last saw the film when I was 10... Gian Maria Volontè's El Indio is the supreme performance, an imperious bandit who shows madness and piteousness in equal measure. Never just simply 'the bad guy'. I also love the minor roles, particularly the striking reveal of José Terrón (Calloway) with his skeletal features and Morricone's surreal music. 9/10
From many angles a good modern Western. I like the lean way in which the film simply begins and moves forward, without prologue or explanation. The acting is good, particularly from Pierce Brosnan who gives a terrific, visceral, endlessly world-weary performance. Liam Neeson is also very good, in the charismatic manner to which we are accustomed yet Brosnan seems more 'inside' the film. It's nicely shot and designed, and uses an extreme palette of beautiful American backdrop.Clearly, for all that the film tells a straightforward tale, in genre terms it's basically a road movie, with the chase being revenge thriller. However, there's a nicely subtextual sense that something rather more arch is being essayed, like a parable, as the principals meet characters episodically on the journey. This all finds its apex in the denouement in which surrealism turns reality and metaphor inside out. I found this hard to stomach after the pitch of the storytelling of the rest of the film. It's fairly well-done but overstates its case - it doesn't help that the flashbacks are too ill-executed and flimsy to give it any weight (for flashbacks one must watch Sergio Leone).Much enjoyed but I felt a little let down at the death. 7/10
In a crowded back catalogue of Robin Hood-on-screen, this is a worthwhile addition. It has all the action you might expect and although it tells the early, socio-political roots of the legend it still has time for laughs and romance.Russell Crowe is more than Gladiator-in-green but that's a good guide to what you get: stirring words; moral fibre; grit both in action and emotion. There's an enormous cast of familiar names gathered around him. The choice performances are those of Max von Sydow as his morally equivocal father-by-proxy back in Nottingham and William Hurt coming in as the sage but weary William Marshal. I think Ridley Scott's casting of Oscar Isaac as the headstrong King John was just right as the youngster who cannot match his brother's Lion Heart in deed or temperament. The only weak link for me was the Sheriff of Nottingham, a non-role in the final cut - how much of that is to do with Matthew Macfadyen's awkward, semi-comic performance (à la Jack Davenport) I couldn't tell.Clearly this is a carefully researched film but which sits easily in the new aesthetic of action-adventure pioneered over the last decade by Chris Nolan, Paul Greengrass and Peter Jackson. But then of course, Ridley Scott - and Russell Crowe, for that matter - got in first with Gladiator (2000). It's not particularly adventurous though. Scott is a master craftsman rather than a visionary. There's plenty of sequel/franchise potential as well. 6/10
One might expect a cast of wall-to-wall A-listers for a biopic of, arguably, the most important figure in cinematic history. Indeed, this film has a number of familiar faces but also a number of less obvious actors, including a strong British contingent. Principally amongst the less well-known is the man playing the eponymous Chaplin, Robert Downey Jr. His is a strong performance, distinguished by his commitment to the physicality of Charlie Chaplin's thrilling slapstick whilst, 'off- camera', still and centred. In an unashamedly romantic film as only David Attenborough can produce, it is a tribute to Downey Jr that he doesn't indulge the melodrama that might otherwise oversaturate the film.I was also enamoured of a number of the support roles, particularly Geraldine Chaplin, a fine actress anyway but here, poignantly, playing her own grandmother. Kevin Kline (Douglas Fairbanks) is also perfect for Attenborough, full of fun. John Barry's score is a strong feature of the film too, with its epic sweep and hints of wistfulness. Attenborough also takes some interesting artistic decisions, doing one scene in the style of silent comedy, which is super, simply entertaining.I did struggle at times with the conceit of having a fictional editor, played by Anthony Hopkins, engaging Chaplin in a conversation about his autobiography. This is designed as an alternative to voice-over or subtitle to fill in the story, which is reasonable, but means that the two characters are obliged to tell each other what they already know, which jarred. Still, this is a wonderful celebration of cinema, which is what, surely, a review of Chaplin's life boils down to. 7/10
On the strength of the trailer I thought I might be going to see an art thief flick with a twist. Naturally this isn't the half of it but I really wasn't prepared for what did pop up. This is often a grotesquely gory film and also a funny one. What's bizarre is that these things almost always occur simultaneously.As a result this is a funny pulp noir, a modern version of those Elmore Leonard adaptations that we're used to now, but done in Norwegian accents and with modern trappings (GPRS, demanding Russian prostitutes etc.). It's well plotted, which I suppose one must ascribe to Nesbo, though the director Tyldum must take credit for this too. The acting is actually rather average but the story and it's construction make up for the shortfall. 7/10
The opening of this film promises much; obviously improvised sequences with no cynicism and plenty of relaxed laughter. Jim Caviezel's private Witt asks of the Polynesian children 'Why don't they fight?' If only the whole film could have maintained such freshness (and the unaffected joy of the children's mother Polyn Leona - a tiny diamond in this salt mine).Instead the film Malick is trying to produce is tethered to another that the actors have no choice but to populate; realist, melodramatic and, consequently, at odds with the dreamscape Malick has in mind.The acting is OK. Nolte is particularly good in repeatedly capitulating in his failure to make an impression on his men. Elias Koteas manages nobility in always trying to do the right thing but being punished for not achieving the heroic. Above all Caviezel, the arguable principal, is ideal for Malick. An aloof private whose Zen-attitude gets eroded by his first-hand experience of the battlefield he remains still and engaged in front of the patient camera.A quick comparison with the contemporaneous Saving Private Ryan (a success). Malick has tried something quite different but has found himself hamstrung by 50 years of war movie conventions asserting themselves. Spielberg took this rich cinematic history but paid great attention to the detail of it, tweaking the vernacular and thus giving a, frankly, familiar story fresh voice. Of course neither did it help the former that the latter was released at the same time... 3/10
I liked the control of this film's ambiguities. At first I thought it was set in France. Then, perhaps, a Balkan country. Only later does the film reveals itself but not before one has confronted several assumptions about the rightness or wrongness of there being a monastic order at the centre of a largely Muslim community.During the film the seven monks are obliged to consider their practical role, their higher purpose and their own strengths as men, individually and collectively. We are told next to nothing of their back story and must work from their characters as revealed in the situations in which they find themselves - tending the sick, and facing the political and physical threat of the internecine attrition of local Muslim factions.The performances operated along an axis that has the sage, worldly but ageing Michael Lonsdale (Luc) at one end and Lambert Wilson at the other, giving a career-watershed performance as Christian, the youthful, scholarly, faith-secure leader of the group. The film's ascetic design affords ample opportunity for beautifully composed shots that recall late 17th century Italian church allegories or the martyrdom-piety of Carl Dreyer's Joan of Arc. This is particularly the case in a memorable, exquisitely filmed Antonioni-like extended- denouement sequence which scrutinises the group as they eat supper after making the key decision of the film.In addition to the performances of Lonsdale (creating a character on a continued trajectory from the worldly-compassionate servitude shown in Frankenheimer's Ronin) and the excellent Wilson, I admired director Xavier Beauvois' restraint in not laying on the piety too heavy and in pitching the pragmatism of the self-sufficient monks just right. The film doesn't preach. If anything, in its austerity it can seem a little remote for a Western audience. Still, the cold and hardship, like much else in the film, rings true. 7/10
No shocks, no disappointments. It's a classic family cartoon (made with CGI) with good guys, bad guys, a vaguely Hudsucker Proxy meets Wizard of Oz plot and the requisite postmodern asides, even for the kids ('yes we know you know it's a surreal cartoon' etc.).There's plenty of invention in translating human attributes across to machines but that's where the invention ends. The film is purely a vehicle for its star voiceovers and CGI wizardry. For the latter, a laurel or two although I wasn't quite so ready to buy into the voicework: Robin Williams especially has a tendency to modulate the volume of his projection so wildly as to render many lines inaudible (sic an actor error, not production). One for the under 12s while you do the tax return. 4/10
Another hit primarily from the pen of Charlie Kaufman but faithfully and creatively realised by Spike Jonze. Really, if you ever actually wanted to get inside and actor's head, which actor would you choose? I think John Malkovich is an inspired choice, largely as director and actor really get down and dirty with the opportunity to inflate and kill off the myths surrounding him and his place in the profession.Of course Being John Malkovich is about others who would take advantage of him (although this film isn't a satire about celebrity per se). John Cusack's puppeteer Craig is a loser with an undeveloped talent, a meandering soul that Cusack knows just how to play. The big revelation, such as there is one in such a mad film is Cameron Diaz as his wife Lottie. Made down instead of up, with a wiry hedge for a wig she's unrecognisable and thoroughly competent (OK, perhaps this film IS about our presumption of celebrity after all). Katherine Keener plays the predatory, opportunistic lesbian who - like all good New Yorkers - knows how to make the most of what turns up, however wacky. 7/10
It's a film that's 10 years older than its spiritual time, the 1996 Europeans Football finals and the year that gave us New Labour's Cool Britannia. This is a knees-up-mother-Brown outing for the Aardman Animation team. The production takes the style and image of their famous clay stop-motion but render it in computer graphics. The story is about 2/3rds classic rescue drama with the rest chock-full of visual gags and references and wry asides that aren't just for accompanying adults. I lost count of the movie hat tips when I'd got past a dozen and the singing slugs never got dull.The voicing is superb, although Kate Winslet plucky Rita gets out charisma-ed by almost everyone else. It's not a 'real' Aardman Animation film but once you've absorbed the fact it's a good matinée romp. 6.5/10
This is a more effective American pastoral (to twistedly appropriate Philip Roth) than No Country For Old Men. A whodunnit vehicle for Tommy Lee Jones the action is played out entirely on American soil where the fog of a Middle Eastern war has followed its combatants home. Jones is quite outstanding with endless, varied moments of intense, static acting. The triumph is that his character's internal battles with pride, love and incomprehension don't obscure the natural path of the thriller.Charlize Theron is also excellent but simply not on the same Olympian level as Jones. Susan Sarandon and Jason Patric are but big names in a pool of fine support players. The film itself is admirably constructed with good photography, lighting, design and score.If there is a criticism I might note it is that this film has a point to make and goes out of its way to prove it. Paul Haggis is by no means above hammering home points. However I feel that the film is strong enough to take the matinée contrivances which Haggis fluently employs. A fine, non-partisan political threnody for American involvement in Iraq. 7.5/10
A rite of passage/high school flick without an obvious plot but much more than a montage of familiar scenes. In truth, I'm not quite sure how Linklater does it. Each set piece is quite self-contained. The main event of the film, a party, almost fails to happen at all. Instead, Linklater relies on a carefully balanced script and his cast. The kids exude naturalism, pinging from experience to experience. Linklater's documenting style refuses draw a specific narrative thread or moral from the movie. If there is any specific epiphany for a character, we don't see it.This naturalism works wonders with the retrospection of the film: we don't have to suffer the usual assumptions about the 1970s. If there is a principal character then Jason London's Pink is it, a beautiful, gifted - if slightly bland - lad whose character Sofia Coppola must have noted when casting Josh Hartnet in a similar role in The Virgin Suicides. All the other roles in the ensemble are equally well-taken.Good natured and quietly affecting 8/10
I was entranced by the first twenty minutes or so. I really was. The camera hops about but, every time, seems to alight on wonderfully composed, inventive framings. The lighting is impeccable. The production design is at once period-exact and yet suspiciously abstract. Nicole Kidman seemed at home. I thought I was about to see that most elusive of all genre films - a good artist biopic.Then, with a startlingly violent twist in quality, ingenuity and effort it simply stops. In the story of Diane Arbus (fictionalised here), a seminal meeting with an artistic freak sets her muse free. Exactly the opposite happens on screen in Fur: Diane walks into Lionel's apartment and immediately the film halves it pace, gums its script with cliché and zaps the actors with performance-botox. It was as if I'd just been kicked out of a Christmas party at the Colony Club onto the empty, frozen streets of midnight Soho. 3/10 (for the opening)
An entertaining but utterly disposable thriller remake. Nick Cage's appropriately named moody antihero Memphis Raines is an ex-con with a talent for swiping motors. The film comes up with a reasonable concept in which he can steal many cars but still look like the good guy - that he does it under duress.Cage is a mercurial actor: in this film he underplays the grandstanding a bit and it's better for it. Christopher Ecclestone's entry to the pantheon of Brits-playing-bad-guys is good if a little humourless. Giovanni Ribisi is the whining brother Kip who, frankly, deserves everything he gets. Angelina Jolie is the totty. It's not a great film and is virtually laminated with the gloss put on the picture, although it can be exciting. Avoid if you love old school Mustangs. 4/10
A thoroughly silly slapstick vehicle for a big-screen-novelty Jim Carrey. Producers would have been forgiven for thinking that it looked radioactive on paper with its modern, wisecracking Doctor Doolittle with little more than direction notes for lines and sleb-incorporating plot.The whole thing is not only galvanised but transformed by Carrey. His facial acrobatics, accurate mimicry and clever understanding of how the camera sees him means that one has to suspend one's disbelief of this being some sort of post-produced animation (it didn't stop there - apparently Carrey is responsible for improvising lines as well). Dan Marino and Simon Callow are rather clunky support, as you might, or perhaps might not expect. Courtney Cox is very good as a straight guy, clearly understanding but not using her small-screen comic timing. Daft but fascinating. 5/10
Eastwood's drama has all the ingredients for a convincing tale of redemption and the hard won legacy of Americanism, for which the Gran Torino of the title is a clear metaphor. The film seems distracted though, self-conscious. For me, this is an example of a good film watered down to mediocrity by weak acting.With the possible exception of Eastwood (a good actor, who just about comes out in credit on the age against experience balance sheet), the supporting cast are all poor. Black, Mexican, White and Vietnamese youngsters are cut-outs, 2-dimensional replicas of comparable performances or simply the people I see on my South London bus. The Vietnamese adults are clearly not actors at all. Walt's family don't have a great deal of script to work with but again the youngsters are pale. Ahney Her, playing Sue, the sharp, sympathetic Hmong girl survives on charisma where her delivery fails - Bee Vang as Thao doesn't even have that. John Carroll Lynch as Walt's barber is an honourable exception to all this, although his job is to mediate the senior xenophobic mouthing-off which is a necessary irritant.The upshot is that these characterisations have no depth and so have no investment in the film. They simply help move the story on from one situation to the next. Eastwood's Walt has no reactive exchanges in which to develop his own epiphanies. The catastrophic denouement becomes just another suburban episode, especially with the distracting epilogue in a lawyer's office. The original subject and its handling could have made this a notable, weighty drama. Instead - when one looks past the simple fact of Eastwood's involvement, like morning mist clearing - it's just another high-moral American flick. 4/10
A typically Gondrian, enigmatic love story. I'd love to say unique, although the lingua franca of a Michel Gondry production is the re-appropriation of his own material. Nonetheless, The Science Of Sleep is fresh, inventive and funny.It can also be sad. Gondry recognises the frisson of melancholy (indeed, tragedy) that sharpens the intensity of romantic plots. Moments of joy and pain spring up and disappear without explanation or wistfulness, in the truly French manner - just like the characters' breath on the cold Spring streets of Paris. Both Gael Garcia Bernal and Chrlotte Gainsbourg are the equal of this veering between genuine seriousness and lightheartedness in a flash.I also enjoyed Gondry's ability to come up with not only a story but also a manner of telling it that blurs the lines between the two. The principal actors can switch behaviour 'in a flash' - this is literal as Garcia Bernal's Stephane comes up with a flash-gun operated time machine, which enables the 'bedroom' editing technique to which Gondry is also paying homage here. There are many other tropes and devices, many invented and constructed for the briefest of sequences. It's virtuosic impressionist-narrative film-making. 7/10
One of the reasons I like Soderbergh's movies is that they set up to tell the story clearly. The gimmick to Traffic is bleaching each subplot a different colour to help distinguish the players. Of course this sounds like a rather patronising practice until the movie gets started in earnest Soderbergh wants to illuminate the intractable web of compromised politicking and ethics drug abuse spawns from bathroom to boardroom and he doesn't want to have to dilute his drama on the way.It's a tight, clearly scripted affair, without undue overlap between the tales. Most characters struggle to reconcile their experience during the action with their position at the outset, with the exception of the already corrupt Rodriguez and Sanchez for whom policing drugs trafficking is 'an entrepreneurial activity'. The deadpan Benicio Del Toro is a study in blank immorality here. The rest of the cast are equal to this: Michael Douglas always owns his screen time, but I really liked the strange bargaining between Quaid and Catherine Zeta-Jones. 7/10
An increasingly surreal horror pulp fiction mixing money and madness. Shallow Grave is a notable film for early performances from important British actors, McGregor and Eccleston and an honorary Brit (she's a kiwi), the marvellous Kerry Fox. Danny Boyle moves through the stages of lunacy and increased nastiness always with an eye for comic potential, following through on the cruel hilarity of the early flatmate interview sequence.I felt McGregor to be rather immature in this role but I recognise now that this is the character, distracted, frenetic... Kerry Fox is the control human in a situation which loses its humanity almost the moment the creepy Keith Allen strides in - she's a sort of serious version of the fickle moll played by Jamie Lee Curtis in A Fish Called Wanda. Eccleston is over the top in everything he does and this is no exception but the mad role takes it. 6/10
A high-period, celebrated Antonioni film about which I remain ambivalent; admiring but disengaged. Location and cast look exquisite in the b&w photography, particularly the striking principals Gabriele Ferzetti (Sandro) and Monica Vitii (Claudia). L'Avventura starts off as a mystery thriller but then Antonioni careful unravels expectations making the solipsistic experiences of the friends searching for the missing Anna (Lea Massari, perfectly beautiful, offhand and distracted) the burgeoning content of the film. There are his trademarks symbols and motifs - the film is filled with bells marking arbitrary points in time or calling to one another mournfully and artist's materials, like paint and ink, are ever-present when young men feel their testosterone rise.Indeed the film explores temporality - the sense of temporary worth, exposed when young and old come into contact. Antonioni's achievement in this film - which I found rather long and whimsical, although ultimately focused and consistent - is that young and old, men and women, working or moneyed class are found to be fragile and in need to one another's support and love. The disappearance of Anna at the outset of the film is a symbol all of itself, not fully-fledged magic realism but a suggestion of what is intrinsic to the film (as well as important and precious dramatic element!). The film revolves around the absent Anna like moths about the flame. Buildings, islands, photographs, vases, people, marriages even hotels that exist seem to run the course of their usefulness or even interest besides the one thing notable by its absence.Trying to create a narrative that discusses these tensions, built around someone who isn't there, is a tough assignment. It only works if the audience are prepared to follow Antonioni, who subverts a genre (the thriller) in which the audience spend the opening half hour absorbing dramatically inert exposition. Nonetheless, Antonioni's real target is well-explored in the pure vernacular of cinema, the image which are well-composed, beautifully realised and formally satisfying. 5/10
The only passable bits of this film are the minor-part, middle-age thugs, bits of the fights sequences and the game footage.As for the rest of it, the eye-rolling starts as soon as Charlie Hunnam attempts his first West Ham song. The snorting machismo and estuary English haven't spent long enough in the workshop and keep slipping. All the Yank-in-Blighty clichés are rolled out, from explaining rhyming slang to 'stop saying soccer'. Elijah Wood still looks like a child. He's also ill served by the director. Fairly convincing hand-held action sits uncomfortably with ridiculously convenient fixed camera shots, there's not enough large scale crowd footage and the story is lost to dramatically void brawling.It's embarrassing, a sanitised violence fantasy in the manner of a boy trying out karate moves in his bedroom. 2/10
An echt-1973 movie. There are plenty of them in this year; films which seem to belch belligerent independence from the screen. From an virtual unknown in the title role and unmodulated (if implicit) scenes of homosexuality, to daring to run for over 2 hours largely without music, this is another exhilarating winner from this richest of movie years.I think what I like most about the film is its pace. The economy with which Zinneman tells the story is stripped right down. There is no patronising voice-over or script-embedded exposition. Consequently, those moments where we're not entirely sure what's happening act as moments of suspense, not so much twists as notches in the grain of the plot. It's a wonderful, organic piece of thriller-narrative film-making.Edward Fox is as horribly calculating and driven as Zinneman could possibly have hoped, really compounding the cad of The Go-Between that hastened his casting. Michael Lonsdale's pursuing detective Lebel is brilliantly understated as his humble doppelganger. It amuses me to think what Lebel would have made of his extrovert contemporary Jimmy Doyle in the second French Connection film! The smattering of oh-so familiar British acting talent also invest the long list of tropes with real character - there is a super, unobtrusive sense of ennui, pride, professionalism and mordant humour even in the briefest of exchanges. No doubt the naturalism of location and non-acting extras rubbed off on the pros. I also feel inclined to mention the marvellous performance of Delphine Seyrig, managing function, beauty and pathos in her 2 1/2 short scenes as Madame de Montpellier.For all that the cast understand the nature of the film and inhabit it so fluently, it's Zinneman's attention to all the detail that's so satisfying. There are more wonderful location views than in any Bond film but shot with a marvellous photographer's sense of their innate value - they are not presented for the viewer like trophies. I cannot imagine that Paul Greengrass, our contemporaneous master of shaky-cam action-thriller realism cannot have absorbed the well-executed 'verité' of this film as an early initiation of his own art. I also admire one or two of the stunts. Above all, I simply love the Liberation Day set piece which is almost symphonic in its editing construction, crescending masterfully into the long-awaiting climax of this fantastic film. 9/10
A super picture - and great to watch on the first day of a new year. The story is ostensibly of a race horse who becomes an unlikely winner. However, the entire cast is of unlikely characters who come good having been given a second chance: lest the point be lost b&w stills of the depression are interpolated with authoritative voice-over.This factual-flashback tactic could be a bit clunky but for the way the film is pitched. There's very little dwelling on the tragedies and setbacks that bug the principals. The film is interested in documenting the integrity, perseverance and life-embracing humour of the characters as an undisguised metaphor for the mid-thirties. To this end, fine acting from all (Cooper took a deserved gong, but I love Bridges more every time I see him) unstintingly fine photography and crisp, no-nonsense direction that belies the 2hr+ running time add up to a super matinée. 8/10
An epic celebration of some great Italian staples - love and cinema. This terrific film takes in three generations over three acts: growing up; falling in love; and revisiting the first two.Salvatore Cascio as the child Salvatore is the pick of the flashback actors, perpetually wide-eyed in amazement and full of life (indeed, he won a BAFTA). Later life Salvatore and Elena are playing well by Jacques Perrin and Brigitte Fossey who, I reads between the lines, doesn't appear in the standard theatrical cut at all.This is a pity but not a detrimental loss. The great performance that hangs in the background of this detailed, well-observed and loving film is that of Philippe Noiret's Alfredo. His big heart and sagaciousness give the tremulous whole context, depth and a palpable humanity (he is the angelic counterpart of the malevolent Papet of Jean de Florette and Manon des Sources).It has imperfections but they are unmemorable in Tonare's (Morricone-score abetted) full-on assault of your heart. Beware of the final five minutes which are merciless; you will weep until your skull is sand. 9/10(I watched the 170 min director's cut)
A wonderful, over-earnest time-travelling adventure romp featuring a super soundtrack from Queen. Highlander arrived at just the right time, as people re-discovered the romance and mystery of myth: where Terminator had drained the sci-fi arena dry, Highlander looked to take a different tack with the dramatic possibilities of immortality.Christopher Lambert's McLeod is a super screen presence, physical, heroic and serious. He's a match for the pungent presence of Sean Connery who is less committed to creating something new or original but still manages to be persuasive. McLeod's romance with his wife Heather (Beatie Edney) that must die with age is particularly affecting. Clancy Brown is a frightening adversary and has never bettered this lustful, belligerent turn as Kruger. A violent but satisfying matinée fantasy. 6/10
A tough film to get through. Ryan Gosling's high school teacher nose dives - literally - through the film, hoovering up a sordid quantity of hard drugs. The remarkable Shareeka Epps catches him at it and the two wander through the film drawing closer. Their relationship is singularly well-judged; in a movie of spasmodic hedonism there is no suggestion of impropriety between the two.It's very difficult to see the point of the film though. Director Ryan Fleck does a super job of crafting sequences of grey, the causal relationships and relative perspectives in a merry-go-round of aspirant middle class vice. Yet for all the warm humour and laconic misery there's no denouement. Still, at least no-one took a possibly more disastrous decision to append something glib in an attempt to resolve the insoluble. 6/10
The Graduate has become a holy cow of cinema with indelible characters, lines, shots and even a car. As a wonderful, densely detailed coming-of-age film at the epicentre of 20th century peacetime social change, most of this is warranted.I like this film because it's so naive, or rather its hero is. Dustin Hoffman's Ben Braddock barely knows what he wants even when, at the film's close, he snatches it. For all its exhilarating, romantic impetuousness, Nichols won't let the film run off on it's own. The film might document a contemporaneous youthful emancipation but it maintains an age-old aspect of this assumption of choices and personal responsibility.The co-protagonist of The Graduate is the delightful Mrs Robinson of Anne Bancroft. Naturally she's not only a petty, scheming suburban housewife but also a metaphor for an old, corrupted world order. Bancroft's value is that she's not only beautiful but also nasty enough to really force Braddock's hand. He has to act against his natural complacency. Katharine Ross is lovely support as Elaine and Simon & Garfunkel might as well have been cast too. 7/10
One of only two films I've ever been incapacitated by laughter watching. The basic premise is the predictable double-crossing that ensues after a diamond heist into which the odd-guy, Cleese's barrister, is dragged by the schemiest of them, Jamie Lee Curtis's Wanda.Really the movie serves as a series of tight sketches in which the individuals can extemporise and includes a steamroller sequence that Mike Myers borrowed for the second of his Austin Powers films. I was shocked at what a risqué film it is - there's a great deal of sex, or at least the promise of it. In retrospect this strikes me as a high watermark - and watershed - of the diminishing legacy of the British 70s sex comedy. It'd never work without its carefully prepared script (Cleese's own) and purposeful direction though. Try not to drink while viewing.7/10
I managed an hour of this before I had to concede defeat. It's a NY- centred romcom that makes demands beyond itself of the leads. 'Luckily' Hugh Grant is equal to this and the funnies that work are down to his dry and darting delivery of one-liners, many of which I'm sure were improvised.Still this is a straight down the line romcom and so sidling off on sarcastic tangents only goes so far. The core story concerns the writing of a song, which means we get exposed to uncontroversial melody in much the same way as nurses get exposed to x-rays: it's a necessary evil that they try to limit. Grant and Barrymore play along within it's vehicular mandate but it is, ultimately, embarrassing. 2/10
It does have some pretty nasty finishing to its script but Tony Scott makes the most of this remake. It's full of his trademark bleach-n-blur photography, nodding in the direction of verité. The action is super too - there's a terrific 'car chase' which doesn't actually involve any chasing, just the natural hazard of New York.Indeed New York is the gargantuan, tacet player in this cast of characters. Clearly this is a post-9/11 film but it's played without any sort of direct implication or mawkish sentimentality. This is simply a devotional piece to the Big Apple, in the same vein as As Good As It Gets or 70-80s Woody Allen. I liked it for this reason.Alas, there are things I don't really like. The story's terribly thin - the end is shrieking for a startling plot twist - and the Manhattan overview pulls interest away from the minor and major characters with gravitational indiscretion. Nonetheless, Gandolfini is a well-pitched Mayor, labouring under the same suspicion of moral misdeed as Washington's everyman Garber. They both have better lines and make a better fist of their roles than Travolta's messy criminal mastermind, but, as always with Travolta, he's no less /appealing for it. 5.5/10
Twelve men cloistered in a steaming Manhattan courtroom for ninety minutes. It's this basic premise that had always rather put me off 12 Angry Men. Technically, the film ends up as a study in close quarter drama. The tension of Hitchcock's Rope is very much in evidence, although the whodunnit element of 12 Angry Men is simply a MacGuffin (which Hitchcock would have appreciated). The drama itself is a study of men: the way in which men behave towards one another, understand and deal with one another, what they consider acceptable, and so on.It's a very interesting film, as the acting techniques are really dated. Despite this, one consistently gets a sense of authenticity, that for all the melodrama, men - these men, with their own backstories - do behave like this. Even without considering individual performances, there is much to confirm this. For example, the general, collective meandering about the room before they all finally sit down and begin to discuss the verdict; this tells us as much about their pride and insecurity as any exchange.The entire cast is really excellent - it's a bit like trying to single out one particular performance in Glengarry Glenross. Henry Fonda leads but only as the initially unconvinced juror. He asks questions. His liberalism isn't didactic. I actually found his attempts to undermine the evidence childish, compared with the dialogue that this confrontation provokes in the defensive ensemble. The key to the film is that he doesn't win anything. The majority of the characters do retain their autonomy. There is no genuine emasculation.I finished watching this movie two hours ago. At the close, I didn't feel particularly impressed or moved. But the quality of the performances and what they meant about the characters, about their situation and consequently about me are sitting in my head talking to me in exactly the same way as a reasonable, unprejudiced man in a white suit. 7/10
A deeply tragic film. Trintignant's Clerici is a nasty, pitiable individual. His friends are (symbolically) blind or thuggish, his wife terminally bourgeois... when the chance to become part of Mussolini's shady espionage network comes calling he takes it, seduced by purpose and power. Naturally, he cannot bear the weight of the normal, even passionate relationships that he must build in order to do his job. The outcome of his duplicity is violent in extremis and leaves him ruined.Cleirci is a rather contemptible person 'conforming' to marriage as a social convention, to confession as a religious convention (and in order to please his wife, whom he cares little for), and to dastardly political affiliation through that most virulent existential disease, boredom. Yet Trintignant invests the man with hope, a searching quality. His adulterous relationship with Anna (a sexually compelling Dominique Sanda) is credible.On top of this, Bertolucci makes the film seductive, like a diversionary tactic. The surface of the film, with its impeccably framed & costumed women, gender-blending eroticism and all couched in the immortal beauty of post-fin de-sielce Paris means that we find ourselves led up the same path (or, in keeping with the film's symbols, dancefloor) as Clerici. The inevitability of murder is skilfully, sinuously delayed - the denouement is a crushing epilogue of isolation. Classy, if depressing. 7/10
The Farrelly brothers may well rue the gross-out tarring accrued through Dumb and Dumber. They'll be less keen to ditch their extreme, inside-out comic approach given results as good as this.This comedy about a pair of conjoined twins doesn't work up gags starting with two people who are forced to face their limitations. Instead it takes their remarkable - sometimes ridiculous - independence and looks to examine normal adults' behaviour through the pretext. It's essentially a genre romcom/buddy movie in a strange, reversed premise.Greg Kinnear is excellent but I was particularly impressed by Matt Damon, so often (post-Team America) seen as a pretty, Mr Potato Head of an American matinée idol. He might have a somewhat black and white approach to character irony but most of the time he's very entertaining.A feisty, warm movie that slips along without hammering its point down the throat. 6/10
One of the great films of the 1980s and possibly the greatest biopic ever made. It's a punchy, rabbelious and irreverent film which actually, inside, exhibits a hagiographic level of attention to detail and love of character and music.The punk-like raucousness of the film is drawn from and oscillates about the once-in-a-career performance from Tom Hulce as Mozart. He's everything to everyone: neurotic prodigy; dysfunctional child-man; tasteless, obseqious airhead; self-absorbed genius.Alongside Hulce's Mozart is F Murray Abraham's dark doppelganger Salieri. In an equally brilliant turn Abraham plays the straight guy to Mozart as mere competent - a 'mediocrity'. His Mephistolean on-screen narrator is of the same passion and complexity as John Malkovich's subsequent, celebrated libertine in Dangerous Liaisons.Around this double-act circles a bewildering roll-call of fine acting, costuming, outstanding shooting (all pre-Dogme natural light), incisive editing and, of course, an aching, furious, lucid script. Extremely funny, horribly moving. 8/10
Grimy, romantic, mid-1970s New York. Redford, von Sydow and Faye Dunaway. An intelligent, sparely scored and under-scripted (i.e. no superfluous explanation) spy thriller. It should be brilliant.Hmm. Well I think Pollack trusts too much to a non-interventionist directing approach. There's dead air in the gaps of the script: there's just not enough to help one to join the dots of the dialogue and the suspense keeps getting sapped. Indeed, there's further deflation by Dave Grusin's score which is more soft porn than urban intrigue, or cool. And the romance doesn't quite dovetail.That said there's plenty to enjoy and disturb. The principals' performances are good, particularly Redford and von Sydow and the film has the same elusive but pessimistic outcome that is characteristic of films of this period (like The Conversation (1974) and the British TV series Tinker Tailor, Soldier, Spy, (1979)). I just couldn't shift the feeling that the conclusion was left as loose ends for disingenuous reasons. 5/10
Irony abounds in this film about the CIA co-opting Hollywood to rescue its citizens from 1970s revolutionary Iran. No time is wasted as a cheerfully cynical prosthetics artist (John Goodman) and a weary producer (Alan Arkin) relish the opportunity of creating a fake production company to discuss the falsities of the real business.Yet once the point man of the rescue operation, Ben Affleck playing Tony Mendes, is on the ground in Tehran, the drama of the 'actual' situation takes over. One ignores the film production cover story the fugitive Americans are trying to inhabit as the intensity of the culture clash and the threat it carries begins to bite. It's a classic nail-biter.There's not a great deal of political information, though footage tempered to look like 1970s film is thoughtfully placed. Not only is the story and the individual appearance of each character reproduced but contemporaneous photographs constitute the template for shots (stay during the credits). A strong matinée flick 7/10
A thorough and often exciting David and Goliath courtroom drama from Francis Ford Coppola, interestingly. It's a rather prosaic film - one gets the feeling that it accurately represents Grisham's novel - but has great performances and a sure control of the tension.Matt Damon was yet to become a superstar with Good Will Hunting but is totally assured as a mop-topped rookie lawyer who has yet to attain the bar. Danny Devito does one of his stock shifty/hustler turns as the ambulance-chaser Shifflet who Damon hooks up with. The supporting cast is a familiar ensemble who give the film the gravitas that its increasingly depressing plot threads require; I particularly liked the self-sacrificing loveliness of Clare Danes. 6/10
An easy-going but nonetheless dramatic whodunnit, Volver is a remarkable film for avoiding most contrivances in having (essentially) an all-female cast. Indeed, this is the film's virtue as it explores the relationships between women without superfluous sentimentality.I liked this. The acting is also very good. Cruz is fine but equally good are Lola Dueñas as her sister Sole and Carmen Maura as the early surprise, Irene. It's not a film that Almovodar has tried to be clever with, using plenty of medium to close shots and getting the actors to do the rest.I think the cunning of the film is, rather, in his script. There are patchy elements to it, loose ends, unlikelihoods and one or two situations clearly inserted to exposit information. Nonetheless, I think that it paces the drama well, feeding us just the right mix of twist and emotional consequence to be satisfying. 6/10
For all that the story and the stylised filming of it are not entirely new, I think it's a remarkable achievement. Only once or twice does one fall back out of the fourth wall - each shot and sequence has been considered to make it look as if the tenacious, hapless Hud (T.J. Miller) really has captured it, intentionally or otherwise. Indeed the shaky-cam makes Paul Greengrass' cameras look set in concrete. Nonetheless important details are lost neither from the frame, nor, more crucially from the audience's attention. It's tight, exciting, frightening, and fairly real...... fairly. My one serious criticism of this film could also be one its virtues, i.e. that you never forget it's fiction. Melodrama often takes over at moments where genuine originality might have had its outlet - but then I guess the film, working almost in real time needs its moments of repose to work at all. We also see far more of the monster than I was expecting. A threat holed up in the imagination was what made the Blair Witch Project so terrifying. But it's a good film. 7.5/10
A good - very good - adaptation of the sprawling, alternative-reality apocalypse thriller. I was engaged throughout, and found myself both stimulated (the constructive, ironic use of fantasy superheroism) and abandoned (generic fighting & sex in a superfluous central sequence).The film is not about: how far can fantasy stretch in order to find a protector, an Übermensch? Nor: what new twist can we bring to a saving- the-world thriller? Instead: it'll probably happen. How does it pan out? What can we guess and what would it likely tell us? That re-aligns the centre of the film with the characters and their arguments and dramas and (in theory!) dispenses with the pizazz of modern action blockbusting.It's a very good story and Snyder and his team do well to stick to it. Of course a lot has happened since Watchmen was published in 1986/7. A catastrophic event in Manhattan is no longer fantasy, and, importantly, neither is its fallout. We also know how a sequel/remake of Superman turned out (very badly!) and so we already have a detached perspective on that Übermensch chronicle in order to reassess the 1979 original and objectively criticise this one.Snyder, in fact, doesn't snub this opportunity. Whilst comic-book superheroism, well established by the mid-1980s, had sufficient material to deconstruct, it's probably only now that the cinema audience can critically appraise a sizeable, mature canon of action/fantasy drama. One cannot help but recall The Matrix, Spiderman, Batman (i.e. Nolan), X-Men and Ironman as well as other meta and comic films like Galaxy Quest. I even left the cinema thinking that Nite Owl II had been played by Marc MaClure, the Jimmy Olsen of the original Superman movies, such was the echo of the cultural resonance.In fact, Patrick Wilson, who does play Nite Owl, and the rest of the ensemble do a pretty good job given that they're certifiably not otherworldly. With the exception of the Superman/Übermensch figure of Dr Manhattan the whole point is that they're more normal than forty years of fantasy adventure would lead you to expect. I particularly liked Jackie Earle Haley (Rorschach), a specialist in psycho-but-not-beyond-redemption (see Little Children).If you can put up with the necessary, crowd-pleasing intrusion of belligerence & bonking, can suffer a capricious CGI mock-up of Mars and won't get too worked up with a highly convincing, atheist argument for the self-sufficiency of humanity then it's worth sitting through. 7.5/10
An outstanding animated cartoon, and one that will (has) prove(d) difficult to better. Inevitably this is down to the concept, the single idea that Monsters go to work like everyone else, scaring young children in their bedrooms to generate power. Docter's? Brilliant.Like many successful animations, the principal characters resemble their voice-over actors in many ways. It comes as no surprise that Billy Crystal and John Goodman are the wisecracking eyeball Mike and the shaggy beast-with-a-heart Sulley. They tear into their parts. The supporting cast features the sort you'd expect in similar film and TV roles - Buscemi, Ratzenberger - and they do similarly sterling work.The script follows where the idea led (it's by Docter too, of course). But the big success is the animation. There's not much new here. What's different is the standard. The fit of the drawing and animation and the attention to detail (most obviously in Sulley's fleece) is exemplary. Terrific 9/10
To borrow a term from Empire magazine, an effective 'puzzle-box thriller'. It's a pretty empty piece: it hangs purely around the gags, violence, offbeat characterisations, and, er, violence. The plot is a drip-fed cause-and-effect affair, rather like the need-to-know basis on which the only apparent good guys (Liotta and Reynolds) get their functioning information. Joe Carnahan does a good job of keeping the multiple-strand action on screen in step with the unfolding story.There's above average acting across the board for a pulpish conflagration such as this. I was particularly impressed by Common and Alicia Keys, two out-branching musicians who I might well have written off if I had known they were going to be in the film before they appeared on the screen.By the way, the twist, when it kicks in, is a particularly complicated one: don't worry if it doesn't make sense - the whole point is the opportunity to re-order the kaleidescope of images shown thusfar and get the actors to do shocked epiphany. Check. 7/10
An almost sci-fi film noir. Polanski's troubling, draining take on the genre strips away the wet urban streets, shadows and closing-time jazz. Instead the film with all it's mystery and threat plays out in the glorious sun and dusty, wide open suburbs of 1930s LA. Even the night-time sequences have a sense of the space around them with all the claustrophobia of the existential void. This is the aesthetic behind Robert Towne's script (he says in the special edition DVD that he found it interesting to write a thriller concerning things right in front of you).I 'like' this approach ('like' because I feel as negatively affected as the next viewer). Polanski's achievement - apart from meeting Towne's vision - is to keep the action either on a par or one step ahead of the audience. The dreadful black marketeering and the twisted characters caught up in it are only revealed in full in a messy rush towards the denouement.Nicholson controls his spiv pi Gittes marvellously, letting his interest and libido get the better of him incrementally. Dunaway also allows tiered cracking to open up her society wife although I was less admiring. John Huston's Noah Cross is a triumph of casting over characterisation, although the two amount to the same. Remarkable. 7/10
As the title suggests there is a philosophical, meritocratic thread running through this film: if a man has the talent and looks to find his way into society and money what might be the outcome if he is denied it for failing to have the X factor? This question is unsatisfactorily dealt with in this adaptation of Patricia Highsmith's book and left me rather cold along the way.Matt Damon is the Ripley of the title and apart from blagging his way on a funded jaunt to Europe falls under the spell of his commissioned target, Dickie Greenleaf (Law). Homoeroticism and social insecurity get all tangled up in a violent conflagration which escalated and complicate themselves for the rest of the movie. Law, Damon and the damningly pleasant Paltrow as Dickie's girlfriend are OK. I liked Philip Seymour Hoffman's cameo-ish Freddie Miles, the bluff society friend that Ripley can never be. The problem is that the story is lumpen without arc - or redemption, for that matter - which makes it rather difficult to swallow. 4/10
Another slick, music video of an action film from the pen of Luc Besson. This one has a seriously improved budget which Louis Leterrier has clearly spent on a real actor (Modine) and a filter for almost every lens. The film looks bleached in hot urine.Good things. Statham - actually, he's not as good as I was expecting, but he's got a charisma which carries a film such as this. The choreography is just OK but is enhanced by the manner in which it is filmed and stuck together. The art design succeeds despite the colour-cranking filters and young men should be very happy with the sub-Lara Croft weapon-wielding waif who'd prefer not to have any wardrobe at all.There's too much silliness though to allow one to engage with the film. The story's perverse and worn at the same time. Statham's escape rate makes Bond look like he prefers to stay out of trouble. There are at least five different stunts which are difficult to construct even with CGI. Worst of all, Statham turns down Amber Valletta coming on to him when she's drunk. Impossible. 4/10
A sharply scripted satire poking fun at religion. Kevin Smith puts his well-practised slackerisms to good use in picking apart some of the tedious pieties of Catholicism in a modern world. I feel he rather loses this satirical bite about two-thirds of the way through as he looks for a satisfying conclusion to the comedy thriller that has grown out of it (which he does capably).The satire works because it lifts the simplest elements of biblical mythology and simply applies them to modern characters. There are next to no special effects, only wry dialogue and some entertaining acting. In fact, this film has one of the most fascinatingly awful fight sequences of any film I've ever come across (in the train) - a sequence that's almost designed to be half-arsed to make a point.Linda Fiorentino is game as the lapsed Catholic who gets co-opted to save the world by Alan Rickman's 'voice of God'. The Damon/Affleck double act are super as rather smug fallen angels - Chris Rock is typically weak in an acting role (as an apostle. You're getting the idea). Smith himself appears in his now familiar guise as Silent Bob next to the fast-n-foul-mouthed Jay (Jason Mewes), the only endlessly, ingenuously entertaining character. 5/10
It's a cheapie spy thriller, with a cast who are familiar with this sort of thing: Liev Schreiber did the Manchurian Candidate remake, Jolie the wretched Wanted (and Mr & Mrs Smith). Even Chiwetel Ejiofor did the twisty-turny Inside Man. It all seems a little more Bourne than Bay to begin with but it quickly descends into posturing and plosiveness. Director Philip Noyce has a slippery grip on the material which sometimes gets away from him. It's a loose and rather unlikely story at the best of times and though he gets on with it it can come out a bit clumpy. It's inoffensive but disappointing that the drama gets subordinated to the action. 3/10
Re-order this film a bit, re-shoot it in LA and you'll have Heat almost perfectly formed. All the typical Mann elements are here in his first feature: actors deeply in character; technical detail with understated acting; carefully worked out shots to look casual or organic; a leading man whose only reason to exist is found when he's at his work. Oh, and the two-hour running length.James Caan gives a performance that substantiates his reported pride in it. He is steely and intransigent when on business, saving the emotional cracks for sequences with his girlfriend Jessie (Tuesday Weld). His monologue at the diner could be the proforma of the Mann set piece. He pours out his defining philosophy: just as we think we have the definition of this existentially transparent character this raw, emotionless diatribe precipitates the situation that carries the drama forward - attachments, compromise, emotion and mistakes.There's something else in this film though. There is a strong homoerotic undertow which I wasn't expecting. From Frank and Okla's intimate exchange in jail to violent incursion into Leo's inner circle at the close the men are close and the women extraneous. Murky but gripping 7/10
Clooney probably took this job whilst still trying to make the leap from TV hero to Hollywood player. It was a gamble that didn't come off: he's a reasonable Batman but in the wrong Batman film. Chris O'Donnell is once again chirruping wallpaper. Alicia Silverstone a benign return to the sub-fetishim of Pfeiffer's catwoman - worst of all the screen is, frankly, over-crowded with goodies.This is probably the angle that Joel Schumacher had in mind, after Batman Forever was so bad-guy dominated. He's swung it too far the other way though, with two dreadful enemy-concoctions that ruin what potential the film has to entertain. Even in his wildly chequered career Schwarzenegger hasn't done anything this bad (I haven't seen his Prince Hapi in Around The World In 80 Days) and though Uma Thurman is very pleasant to look AT she's no better to watch. You can almost see everyone thrashing about in the money as if it were quicksand. 1/10
A fairly straightforward coming-of-age drama that is lifted out of its potential 'made-for-tv' appearance by good performances from a group of first rate British acting talent. The film is a well-spun tale of growing up; innocence punctured, pretensions stripped away. Ever present is the dream of going on University Challenge (the film's title is one of the show's catchphrases), the perfect metaphor for what's going on around and because of it as it relies on parroting information rather than taking good decisions.James McAvoy plays the lead, Brian, who wants to go to university to make his deceased Dad proud (whom he used to impress when the two watched University Challenge together). All the usual tropes of going up to university are visited - going after the wrong girl, getting drunk and stoned, paying increasingly little attention to study. He also leaves friends behind in the sticks, played by half the cast of The History Boys. It's all well-handled, if a little too lightly, without much realism, bite or melodrama. Shooting star McAvoy can look back on this film without embarrassment and Rebecca Hall who may well become A-list in 2009 will do the same. 5/10
Ouch. Is it a postmodern Hollywood critique, a la Cronenberg of A History Of Violence? I mean, it's got James Spader in it, hasn't it? Well, no this is the last line of critical defence for this truly abysmal movie. Actually the acting is a fine example of blinkered Californian professionalism - Nicholson and Spader perform beyond the call of duty - and we get a couple of one-liner cameos from: future stars - Allison Janney is a posh party guest and David Schwimmer an NY cop; and untouchables - Prunella Scales has a quick scenery-nibble.The rest of the film is the very definition of risible. From misguided sequences involving Bambi's grandchildren to a whole host of technical fudgery that can't be tolerated nowadays: wobbly snap zooms, studio shots that don't dovetail with their location, co-opted footage that sticks out, ugly crossfading, obvious body doubles, Wonderwoman-style slo-mo... eurgh.These days you'd get away with all of that if the film had something in its content that showed the team had its artistic priorities elsewhere. But the existential implications are diluted and confused and the twist in the tail woefully mishandled. Rubbish. 2/10
A solid remake of a solid Western. Despite being a Coen brothers film, there is not a great deal more to be said about this competent production. There are a couple of flashes of 'house style', with an undertaker's repeated catchphrase and some structurally formal bookending. But suddenly I begin to see just what No Country For Old Men really achieved.True Grit has two considerable assets. Firstly there is Jeff Bridges, who does to his lines what his eye patch does to his sight, although he still manages to be richly rewarding viewing. Secondly there is the marvellous Hailee Steinfeld whose fine turn as Mattie Ross, conversely, starts with a first-class account of the period-baroque script.Maybe there's a third as well - DoP Roger Deakins, who only yesterday picked up a BAFTA award for his cinematography. However, I am bound to record one serious note of irritance, that being the continuity meltdown as Mattie gets out of a river, fully clothed, only to be shown dry as a bone in a PoV shot-switch. Wouldn't have happened on a more original project, I'm sure. 6/10
Who's your favourite? Woody, perhaps obviously, is the heliocentric character of this particular toysystem. I can't isolate a particular favourite though. There must be a great temptation for the makers of the franchise to identify the character tropes that really captured the audience's imagination in the first two and simply repeat them, inviting the audience to say (for example) 'Buzz is my favourite as he's always doing that'. This doesn't happen and, indeed, with the new toys the character that works least well is the most clearly parodic, Mr Pricklepants, the 'classically trained' hedgehog.What does work is the cross-fertilisation of ideas. A Fisher-Price favourite as a sage old-timer is nicely judged and the Tom Waitesian Chuckles is a treat. Above all I liked the gentle irony of the film, the willingness to have fun with the familiar but at very little expense - Ken and Barbie are the source of much fun but are never out-and-out lampooned. The end of the film is overplayed which I was surprised by since so much else is carefully weighted to make an impression but not leave untied existential time bombs in the minds of children (people invoked Bambi's mother's death as an equivalent for the emotional punch the film offers but I find this a little misleading). However, the film's great success, apart form the unimpeachable animation, comes with the telling of an undying story within the recognisable vernacular of the wholesome American fable. Great stuff. 8/10
Outrageously good. It's such a good film that it's almost difficult to say why... you want to praise the concept, but wonder if that's just because of the design. Is the acting ace or is it the script doing all the good stuff? Is it intentionally funny and moving at the same time or is that to do with the brilliant score?Michael J Fox hasn't done anything better than this (it's an embarrassment of riches that Teenwolf came out the same year). His characteristic, unselfconscious perpetual movement is perfectly suited to a film combining metaphysical insanity with a race against time. Christopher Lloyd pulls off the 'unhinged... but not mad' trick brilliantly. We get a DeLorean defying the laws of physics, for goodness sake.A seamlessly woven series of set pieces (from a master of that art Robert Zemeckis) adding up to the quintessential youngster's matinée. 9/10
This is a clever film. It's set in New York, but it's not a New York film. There's a strong lovestory at its centre but its not a romance. The screwball twist in place at the start has a yuppie as boss to an old-timer but the comedy never spins off beyond the congenial. I like that it's unusual without being cranky.Paul Weitz manages the film very well with this sidestepping of expectation - but without dampening the powder of the premise. It's a funny film, a good script punched out credibly by the good cast. Quaid and Johansson are utterly secure in their rather more conventionally dramatic turns - Grace must shoulder the burden of the comedy which he does with a necessary if wearing excess of energy. There's plenty of good support including a brief but interesting cameo from Malcolm MacDowell whose equivocal father figure is a quietly pivotal moment on screen. 6/10
It's not as good as the first, but don't let that put you off. Travolta is cool, which is as good a reason as any to watch the entire movie, actually. The rest (excepting Thurman, who's the eye-candy) play characters which veer much closer to tropes than unusual creations of the writers. The joy of this film is that, confident of a market that will deliver success, MGM has shelled out on the 'best'. Vince Vaughn uses the feature as a 90 min platform for a well-sustained 'whigger' routine; Cedric The Entertainer plays down his comic background to let Andre Benjamin's eccentric Vinnie Jones-from-da-hood conflagration to blossom. Harvey Keitel adds some menace - as a counterweight Dwayne Johnson fulfils his role admirably.That said there's plenty of misfires. A Pulp Fiction dancefloor revisitation is saved only by the stars natural charisma. It's not interesting to the story, rather like the manifold performance set pieces. La Salle/Cedric's monologue is also a horribly inevitable cut-n-shut of high rhetoric fettered by pulp cinema vernacular: he makes a good point but then has to shoot someone so as not to confound expectation TOO much. Well done everyone. Now move on. 5/10
The visual intent of the film is all in the first few framings, beautifully composed aerial shots of Milan in winter. There are all sorts of tepid allusions to a golden age of Italian cinema (this opening sequence recalling the helicopter shots of La Dolce Vita, for example) but the film is more to do with investigating a broader Italian cultural history. Consequently the film deals with a family with some lineage. A basically patriarchal group, the drama is propelled by the actions of the women, the independent-minded Betta Recchi (Alba Rohrwacher) but principally her mother, the Russian emigré Emma, played by Tilda Swinton.The film is a great example of Swinton's range. She can be the glamorous matriarch, finding exactly the right pitch between her mother-in-law's haughteur and the natural self-possession of the at-ease-with-privilege. She looks quite beguiling in her extended wardrobe. When called on though she can also crumple into a skeletal rack, with opaque eyes and bent with emotional exhaustion. One cannot place her age as her grace, abandon and stoicism are connected with her understanding of the character, not simply how she moves her body. It's fascinating and, I might add, terrifically sexy. The rest of the cast cannot and does not attain this level of involvement although they bear their roles with competence.Perhaps the film is most notable for two things. Its photography is very fine, almost tangible, sultry but lucid - although I struggled with the insistence on quick, close-passing dollies and pans which seemed strangely amateurish. Above all though this film benefits from the use of extracts of music by John Adams, which at a stroke confers two extra dimensions on the film, giving it a an epic, even portentous sweep and also increasing the dramatic propulsion already on the screen. It's not an infallible conceit - once or twice I felt a bit bullied by this - but invariably it really works. A sometimes confusing but nonetheless exhilarating film. 7/10
A thriller that reveals itself very slowly indeed, never giving away more than the audience need know at any one time. This tight spooling of what is, essentially, a genre flick shows the director Steven Soderbergh absolutely on top of his game. It also shows him mixing in a little political seasoning, with a comment on the moral curdling that goes on across the top cross section of various professional disciplines, including the now familiar bogeyman, the financial markets.If anything this film is a little too opaque, moving briskly through its narrative and side-stepping plot-hole issues. Jude Law is good but Rooney Mara is the gold standard and both are supported by a a deliciously poisonous Catherine Zeta-Jones and various other supporting stalwarts. Say it ain't the last Steven! 7/10
It's very peculiar trying to watch this film at the 'ripe old' age of 32. At once one recognises the tortured but noble resignation of Burt Lancaster's Prince Salina at the onset of a new social order and the general passing of time. Yet one is not sufficiently gnarly and embittered not to be enthused with empathy for the energy, adventure and romance of the picture's youth.If such limbo wasn't bad enough, then everything is thrown into total confusion in the unimpeachable set piece of the ball. Who would not, for a time-suspending waltz, rediscover their youth to dance with Claudia Cardinale? It is the crowning achievement of a film that has uniquely beautiful vistas, location sets and attention to period design. The wedding sequence of The Godfather is formally unimaginable without it.Burt Lancaster's performance is quite outstanding; the equal of Dirk Bogarde's Aschenbach in Death in Venice, I'm surprised to admit. In addition to the unfeasibly attractive Cardinale - who also brings a nuanced note of danger to her role, the risks of a revolutionary future - Alain Delon is a correspondingly cocksure Tancredi. I also like many of the bit parts played out with controlled Italian melodrama. 7.5/10
It seems that beginning a movie by having your principal operating some sort of small-time gambling racket out of a back room is shorthand for saying that he's gifted in some way but dysfunctional in another. Such is the circumstance for college dropout Seth (Ribisi) who seems unable to please his Dad.Well the Glengarry Glen Ross/Wall Street hybrid cold-calling office - the Boiler Room' - is where he takes issue with patriarchs: a bullying Ben Affleck offsets the tough love of his father, the Judge (Ron Rifkin); he also has the chance to do the right thing for the impressionable Chris (vin Diesel) but that's doomed as he's betraying himself as he cold calls parents across the country doing the same to their families.It's a miserable watch as the desire to do well supersedes the necessity to do right. The acting often misses this point but it's a young man's drama where the action illuminates the big ideas separately. 5/10
A straightforward Hitchock thriller that loses its way as it focuses on its notable stars. It is a wonderful role for Jane Wyman who is the thematic principal, an actor trying to get resolution and the truth by taking on multiple roles. For her the film (in the year following an Oscar win) is pretty much a triumph.Yet the pungent, extraordinary presence of Marlene Dietrich over- balances the story along with the comic-horror approach of Alastair Sim (yet to score the great, commensurately spooky hit that was An Inspector Calls). Hitchcock contrives a real handbrake of a denouement in order to accommodate the dual love interest as the charismatic Richard Todd goes up against Michael Wilding's dreary Inspector. It's laminated with a slick of sub-Rachmaninov by Leighton Lucas... really you can tell all you need to know from Joyce Grenfell making the principal credits for a single scene cameo which Hitchcock could easily have cut. 4/10
An above average action thriller. Pollack plays the tension very tight - there are a number of times during this film that the audience is left wondering how Cruise's terrified legal stripling actually got out of that. Cruise is absolutely in his element here. His easy charm makes his precocious barrister effortlessly believable, then his intensity raises the drama of the chase to a gripping pitch.His support is first class, with Gene Hackman (say no more) and in-form Jeanna Tripplehorn. A noteworthy actress Tripplehorn, possibly a little narrow but sympathetic, sharp and seductive in the same package (a brunette version of Rebecca De Mornay and Erika Eleniak perhaps). It's Grisham's story though that makes the whole thing a shot in the arm. 7/10
This is roughly the formula of The Invention of Lying. Firstly the comic content is doubled as jokes are reversed - conversation seems to be made up of punchlines. Secondly, the value of lying has interesting practical and, of course, moral ramifications. Thirdly throughout the film, the very fabric of conversation seems impossible to sustain without some sort of fiction, so we look to the first and second points to create its own agenda to bear the plot on behalf of an etiolated narrative.Jim Carey is the heliocentre of this model, both with The Truman Show (a synthetic parallel universe, also involving an ultimately debunked 'God') and Liar Liar in which the roles are reversed, with one character compulsively telling the truth. The jokes density is high and the comedy takes over from the basic premise which gave rise to it. Indeed the subplots (love interest, social standing) take on their own momentum, contingent on the top concept but not supporting it.The Invention of Lying is funny but muddled film. It has some super riff-ideas on the high concept which spark bursts of comedy. Yet the comedy is not well-sustained. Indeed as the film moves through a clear 3-act structure (premise exposition - God - love) the weight of Gervais' investigation of the concept's bearing on each act marginalises the fun, when we'd love it to be the other way around. Additionally, the concept remains as the only unifying 'plot' - the film starts with a man discovering fiction but the subsequent invention of God and the exploration of the illogical nature of love are incoherent.But then it's bound to be incoherent - that's what's built into this mad, mad concept. That a world can be virtually identical to ours but without one of its most basic human components IS incoherent, that's why it has strong comic potential. However, Gervais is so keen to make plain the philosophy and pathos of the situation that the fun seems to suffer. My typical reaction to a situation was to laugh but then get quickly bored as the comic situation, spent, got quietly explained again. The Invention of Lying is rather like a stand up routine in which the comic does a 'do you see?' routine after every gag.The idea of a mainstream Hollywood film in which a sympathetic protagonist clearly states that 'God' is a fiction is remarkable. Gervais has created something thoroughly noteworthy on this score alone. Alas, it could have been much funnier, punchier and thought- provoking if it hadn't felt the need to overstate its case. 5/10
Full marks to Daniel Waters who wrote the thing and Burton for translating it onto the screen. The story is coherent and has he same mix of fun, fantasy and pathos as the first although it's all rather familiar and damp now. Michelle Pfeiffer's Catwoman is the big draw of the film, a disturbing mix of well-contained sexual allure and pity. Danny Devito does the mad-n-bad Penguin (rather different to the wonderful Burgess Meredith from the TV series) reasonably. Michael Keaton is reprising though. He throws himself into the role physically but not psychologically. You get the impression that the Batman in pursuit of peace of mind was exhausted (if not resolved) in the fight with Nicholson's Joker. Still, the effects are up to scratch and Danny Elfman's score still has the grandstanding sub-Wagnerian impact of the first. 6/10
A terrific story of the evanescent certainties of the performing life, All About Eve is also a finely-judged tale of the fickle nature of friendship. The axis of the film is the relationship of two actresses, the celebrated figure of Bette Davis' Margo Channing and the doe-eyed, yet peculiarly insistent ingénue Eve played with soft-focus insidiousness by Anne Baxter. The other characters find themselves drawn to this duo for all sorts of reasons which get articulated as the film progresses - love, venal self-interest, some without choice. I found the role of Birdie, Margo's assistant, as well-drawn (and well acted, by Barbara Bates) as any of the bolder relationships.There are lots of reasons why this is a really remarkable film. A notable one is the manner in which the central twists and overall betrayal do not end in some sort of Shakespearean blood-letting, but rather an acceptance that to be in this business is to make the best of it. Perhaps this is the reason why I find one other central issue so intriguing: the drama and outcome of the film revolves around the fact that Eve is a most talented actor, and, in an unseen central episode, gives a startlingly brilliant audition (also starring Marilyn Monroe). By the end there is a bizarre conflict of truths that a conventional narrative may have tried to consolidate but this leaves open - that success brings isolation and paranoia, but talent's waning ends in the reconciliation with the truth of love and friendship. Ably, acutely played by Bette Davis, Gary Merrill and Celeste Holm (Baxter is well- cast, rather than notably well-played), this is a gem of a film that looks on the business of the stage with compassion. 7/10
Whereas Topaz opens promisingly enough with a trademark dialogue-less chase sequence, it quickly becomes clear that Hitchcock is feeling the heat of the burgeoning Bond franchise. Built in his usual fashion, from highly controlled takes, the film lacks a fluidity and charisma. This might not have been a problem in the previous decade: now, with the French New Wave well diffused in the vernacular of modern film-making and the emergence of a new way of making action films, notably the exciting, exotic 007 spy franchise, Topaz is revealed as a cumbersome novel adaptation.I thought that the film is notably well-shot much of the time and that the acting is very good, when not clearly intervened with. John Forsythe, John Vernon and Karin Dor - herself a former 'Bond girl' - are very good; I was surprised at the principal, Andre, played mutedly by Frederck Stafford. There are any number of loose ends and unsatisfactory developments: the fidelity vs duty subplot hangs open at the close. I was left thinking that there might simply have been more time to deal with them if we didn't have to endure considerable longeurs as Hitchcock lingers trying to make a point that a modern audience would be right on top of. A marked downturn in form. 4/10
This is the way I like my sci-fi films, as psychological dramas with the action - violence - entirely sealed inside my own imagination. This is actually a necessary aesthetic decision of director Shane Carruth (who plays Aaron in the film) as there was barely any money to break anything, let alone stage complicated lighting, graphics or pyrotechnics.In analysis the film actually sounds a little shoddy. Apparently all the money went on film stock, so lighting is rudimentary or natural and the sound recording sounds as if it's from fixed mics on the cameras. Naturally the homegrown aesthetic actually increases the authenticity of the conceit but I was still impressed with the feeling for framing shots and the variety of perspectives that the maintain dynamism in a static, talky movie.The film flourishes because of its script (and despite the rather untutored manner in which the otherwise competent actors speak). We, the audience, are playing perpetual catchup with the plot that escalates each time we think we've understood a complex, drip feed narrative point. I'm now going to compare it with my DVD of La Jetée as, yes, this remarkable act of faith on Carruth's part bears some comparison with Chris Marker's surreal dimension-hopping masterpiece. 7/10
I was entertained, thrilled even. Yet somehow this reconstruction-drama of the Woodward-Bernstein discovery of the scale and depth of the scandal fails to give the impression of just how serious a matter it was - for themselves, those involved, the Washington Post, America and Americans. I suspect that the reason is fairly simple: any drama released following such an outrageous episode in political history, especially within two years will essay the event but never represent it's true impact.Alan Pakula's film takes a fairly sensible course of action, concentrating on the two reporters. This is at once a good idea - it keeps things focused - but also a risky one as it cuts us off from a distance and objectivity that no interpolation of period TV footage can effectively construct. I don't mind the pairing of Redford and Hoffmann whose different technical approaches reflect the different characters that the two men inhabit.There was a lack of tension for me though. There is little of the paranoia that was invested in Redford's previous Three Days of the Condor nor any sense of the crisis inherent in, say, Network or even the more recent State of Play. Much of this has to do with the film's temperament which is hyper-real, complete with voices low down in the mix. Whilst I like this on the one hand (the aesthetic reflects the covered, shadowy nature of the information exchanges) it makes the facts of the drama very difficult to follow. There's only so much one can take on trust, even for an even as infamous as this. 6/10
A simple and deeply affecting film, Tokyo Story concerns an elderly couple who travel to Tokyo to visit their children. The sojourn is a fractured, unsatisfactory affair as their modern, grown-up children have little time to spare them. The grandparents, though uncomplaining, seem to regard this visit as their last, and so it turns out.This is a wistful but not uneventful tale of the arrival of modernity in Japan. With the exception of the daughter Shige, an acrid, self- interested figure, the family is largely made up of good people who have simply moved on in the cultural aftermath of the War. The only mourning, metaphorical and literal, is done by the ravishing Noriko (Setsuko Hara). The grandparents urge her to stop mourning their son, lost in the War and move on with marriage and life.On the face of it this is a perfectly well-acted, carefully but not over-artfully shot film. It's difficult to gauge the extent of irony or pathos especially from the three most sympathetic characters - Noriko and the grandparents, Shukishi and Tomi - as their default face is one of almost Elysian joy. Yet this makes the sadness of a lost son and a dying epoch all the more poignant. A good, often Westernised score (Kojun Saitô) too. 7/10
It takes a little while to really get into its stride but when it does (its third act), Valkyrie is a very entertaining film. Some details. I would have loved to have seen Bill Nighy and Tom Wilkinson's roles reversed - I think Nighy is powerful when tetchy and irascible, and Wilkinson more spaced-out with self-pity than Nighy's trembling wet. I think the photography is superb at every turn. The value of Cruise is at its most apparent in a film such as this - he does his shtick which fits beautifully into the simple genre of the film whilst all around the rest of the ensemble create the specific context.The final hyper-ratcheting of tension is well-handled given that the outcome if known. It's all about little episodes and vignettes which are totally absorbing. A functional, informative thriller for a lazy Saturday afternoon. 6/10
Let's leave aside the frachised dimension to this film for a moment. It's a patchy but exuberant action thriller, featuring an irreverent spy/hit-man (to borrow part of this Bond's own description). The story isn't particularly easy to follow: space has to be made for set pieces and ostentatious brand placements. There is a credibly inserted (if not credibly presented) romantic subplot to lend the tale some weight.As a "Bond film", it's really dreadful. There's no showbusiness to it. I went into the theatre expecting to be entertained for 90 mins. First there are 147 of them, second, the humour got fired with the last guy and third, the Bond tropes (i.e. one-liners, preferred drinks, cars etc.) aren't incorporated, they're stuck on.The really disappointing thing is that Daniel Craig could have really shaken the whole thing up. We could have been given an anti-Bond, battering and blasting his way through a genre assumptive in the same manner which made Connery a novelty. Instead, he looks to play the role with the 'mould breaking seriousness' everyone tells him is his trump card. With no panache to carry the necessary lines the film - unable to break from its franchise or renew itself in it - is still-born.The supporting cast are all very good and I might say that the parkour-choreographed sequence with Sebastien Foucan that begins the film proper is worth the money I paid to see the whole thing on its own. As to the film/commodity in toto, I feel neither is delivered. 4/10
A jolly what if..? romantic drama which chats breezily with time and fate in the same way that Eternal Sunshine Of The Spotless mind chewed it over as if in a philosophy seminar. Burgeoning star John Hannah plays the good guy (James) opposite two parallel running versions of Gwymeth Paltrow's Helen, initially a lucky and an unlucky one but Peter Howitt luckily has more in mind than simply giving us two features for the price of one.You can almost smell the production team urging the inclusion of London landmarks and Britishisms, the quirky British romcom/John Hannah of Four Weddings tie-in. Again Howitt is strong enough not to overdo it. Yet the film is never more than competent and is enjoyable thanks to the charming (if emaciated-blonde) presence of Paltrow. John Lynch and Jeanne Tripplehorn are in the film as well but are, frnakly anonymous. 5/10
Everywhere there are contradictions. The beast is feared at least as much for being radioactive as for the physical havoc it creates. The cast's most sympathetic actor calls for capture and study whilst the Japanese coast is razed under his nose. The hero is a pantomime mad scientist who thinks the H-bomb is so last season.The drama of the film is in these confrontations. The monster is a result of the H-bomb testing, at once a critical metaphor for the US bombing of Hiroshima and Nagasaki and for subsequent domestic involvement in something so self-evidently destructive. That contradiction gets played out again in a Casablanca-style love triangle where the expediency of civil defence wins out.The moralising doesn't ever quite come to a head, even with the inevitable ending. That's a disappointment. However, one has a sense of a melodrama based in fact with good acting, realism and the monster-allegory as a part-player - the beast never hogs the real drama. 6.5/10
A super matinée flick. Richard Gere plays Clifford Irving, a mediocre author who tries to turn his fortune with an outrageous literary coup - that he is engaged to write the autobiography of reclusive magnate Howard Hughes. Gere captures the chutzpah and nervous opportunism of Irving; he is helped by director Lasse Hallström with unfussy sequences of intoxication, dream and surrealism as the project takes on a terrible life of its own.Hallström is well-attuned to the natural drama in the story, using period footage and bleaching his shots beige with filters. Yet he really wrings the drama from the situation and has made a nail-biting and often funny film. Gere has classy support from the versatile Alfred Molina, a grandstanding Hope Davis as his agent and, latterly, the ever-watchable Stanley Tucci (Julie Delpy simply fleshes out a cameo). A more coherent and satisfying hoaxer movie than Catch Me If You Can. 7/10
La Boheme meets Cabaret. I don't much like this film - it's too gooey and the songs are awful, arch and weakly sung. However I see why it has such a following - even more than Romeo and Juliet this is a Baz Luhrman film (irrespective of the cast), with an alchemic mixture of design, editing and stylish sex-appeal that makes the viewer feel more involved than they really are.There's nothing to complain about from the point of view of performances either. McGregor and Kidman clearly have a serious investment in Luhrman-faith. You can just see the crinkles of misgivings as they throw themselves into another auteurial routine. Jim Broadbent's Zidler is a case in point of the old school simply doing their thing without a career to trust to fate (i.e. he's been there already) and John Leguizamo's Toulouse-Lautrec is hilarious. Fun but fickle. 4/10
I first saw this film seven years ago on DVD. Don't do this yourself. Stalker is a film that needs a big screen. Not a mammoth, IMAXy, peripheral vision-saturating screen. Just something that allows the film its breadth of composition, its 160 minute, grand-themed, fog-drift poetry the space it needs to work.Stalker is a film about many things. It's about tension - the hope afforded by the Room at the centre of a mysterious Zone that grants all wishes and a very human reticence to use it. It's about faith - the persuasive certainty of the zealot which is bizarrely limp in practise... and it's about art, where the creative individual beats a path where religious conviction falters.It's also a film that uses the viscera of modern industry to help make its point. The landscape of Stalker could be the industrial slag plain of communist-dreg Russia or a war zone. It's equally an allegory for the conflict within a man's heart for the bucolic beauty and mystery, and the pride of industrial advancement and convenience.Tarkovaky shoots this all in black and white and then colour. But the black and white also has subtle filters and the colours also glow and shift with a livid dynamism. This all happens at the slow and settled pace of exhalation, of meditation. The images are beautiful, not least on the faces of the three fine actors and the other characters who bookend the bulk of the film.It's not a slow film though, be careful. The film moves at the speeds it needs to state its purpose. The opening keystone cop car chase is bizarre and frenzied but only to say these two things. After this the expansiveness increases to accommodate the density of the content and argument. Latter in-camera image tricks are thunderclap-coups at this meticulous pace. It's also funny, as vital a component as the deep breaths of the cinematography itself.The final tableau is a consequently concentrated parable, almost unbearably condensed. It's a fine film 8/10
A wonderful cast of remarkable, idiosyncratic characters could be enough of a reason to watch this typically offbeat Coen Bros film. John Turturro's titular anti-hero is a well-pitched tough-talking but flaky ideologue. Beside him are deliciously imaginative support roles: John Goodman's charming everyman, John Mahoney's literary lush and Tony Shalhoub's Hollywood middlemanmotormouth. Above all there is the indelible turn of Judy Davis - in a field of broad brush eccentrics, she embraces the general breadth of character whilst arresting the camera as the still point on which the worm turns. Impressive.I couldn't help myself thinking about Adaptation I'm afraid. It's not the same film by any means. What Charlie Kaufmann achieves is a coherence that has you chuckling and shaking your head as you leave the theatre. The chaos and unravelling of Barton Fink is not only the manner but also the content of the Coens' movie. Don't take this as a criticism then, but as an indication of how the film holds its place in the magpiemagination of their canon - self-sufficiently. 6/10
This is a perfectly entertaining pulp thriller from a film maker who knows a thing or too about both pulp and thrills. The film is cool. The characters are perfumed with idiosyncrasy, not one of them wholly conforming to genre (I particularly like Michael Fassbender's more-than- cameo in this respect). The soundtrack is a winner, David Holmes' re- processing of 1970s fusion jazz managing to be at once urbane but not urban. There's also an experimental edge to one or two of the shots. Chases in Barcelona and Dublin (yes, it's all a little Bourne) are distended and use long edits. They're not totally successful but they are unusual but they're saying something worth listening to, out of the ordinary.Soderbergh has managed to get a hilariously A list cast together. Gina Carano isn't in their league as an actor but she has clearly been schooled well for this project and holds her own in terms of presence. The action is believable and has sufficient loony choreography to meet the leftfield nature of the rest of the production. Good fun. 6/10
'Do you speak Spanish?' asks John Hurt's 'Guitar' of the nameless two- espresso drinking protagonist in The Limits of Control. Responding to the question for the third or fourth time in the film, Two-espressos replies 'no.' 'No,' says Guitar, 'neither do I, I speak English. Except when I'm in Spain though, perhaps.'I think that this exchange is a useful guide in trying to get to grips with Jim Jarmusch's terse thriller. I imagined that the location of Spain (urban, provincial and rural) represents 'the movie' and that consequently Spanish represents cinematic vernacular. The characters which appear, cameo-like, to exchange code-filled matchboxes with Two- espressos are cinematic tropes, trying vainly to begin a conversation in their lingua película (if you like) before 'realising' that this stubborn outsider won't or refuses to understand.We never really get to the bottom of Two-espressos' role in the drama. He seems to be some sort of a link man, brokering diamond sales. Yet he breaks this off in order to pursue a final confrontation, probably following the intrusive helicopter which flies over every location - 'los Americanos', as one boy tells him. This is the political edge to Jarmusch's film, a suggestion that Two-espressos goes against the trappings of the genre, maybe to avenge the other cameo-tropes who find themselves caught in it. His adversary in this final confrontation, Bill Murray's 'American', represents some sort of risible, anti-art homeland bureaucrat.The almost entirely mute role of Two-espressos is a good fit for the handsome, cool but intense Isaach De Bankolé. The cameos pop in and out without making much of a mark (it's what they say, not who they are). I did like the opening, self-translating double act though, at once a conventional thriller set-up and a confounding taste of the oddities to come. It's a well-paced but lengthy film, a slow-burning polemic suggesting the artist's frustration at having to bend his intentions into the shape of the genre or market. Above all it' a noticeably conventional film (not for nothing is Hitchcock namechecked), given that its a film about and intrinsically utilising techniques which transgresses expectation, i.e. exposing the limits of industrial control. 6/10
A riotous, dynamic but ultimately bleak film. Bonnie and Clyde is celebrated as an early independent success and with reason: it's daring (violent and anti-conventional) and borrows the choppy aesthetic of the French New Wave. Indeed, Truffaut was first in line to direct (Farenheit 451 put him off course).I found the story strangely underdeveloped. There are a number of small incidents which Arthur Penn simply doesn't know how to massage, from the relationship of Clyde's brother and sister-in-law to that of CW Moss. I thought that the peculiar shadow of Clyde's chastity/shame was well handled though. In the midst of this hit and miss is a truly remarkable central sequence in which Bonnie revisits her mother. Shot with a heavy filter on what could be either a dune or a chaff pile it provides a peaceful but morally equivocal central episode from which the juvenile pair consequently tumble to their fate. Is it, in fact, a dream sequence? I think not but it has an inherent mystical, parable- like quality to it. It's very striking.Beatty and Dunaway are very engaging, although their acting doesn't quite marry with the aesthetic. It hardly matters in a way. The entire film is about shaking things up. 5/10
Bright Star is a fairly standard sort of biopic, investigating the life love and work - for they are all barely distinguishable - of romantic poet John Keats. What sets Jane Campion's account of his love for Fanny Brawne is its sensuality. The photography is of the first rank, Greig Fraser's attention to the image apparent from the first frame, holding lint-dusted linen in high-contrast light and then opening up into an endless sequence of meticulously constructed compositions. Janet Patterson's costume design needs to be adventurous and brilliantly executed, given that Abbie Cornish's Fanny is a proud fashion pioneer. Indeed Cornish and Ben Whishaw's Keats are also highly photogenic actors. From interior production design to the seasonal appearance of locations, manufactured or found, everything has both a tangible and aural quality. Image blends across the soft-touch sound design and allows the profusion of poetry quotations to emerge without awkwardness. This is the secret of good film making - when the visual seems to make provision for everything that needs to be said. Wish I'd seen it on a big screen. 7/10
Ingmar Bergman once admitted respect for two films of his contemporary, Michelangelo Antonioni, one of which being the metaphysical thriller Blow-Up. It's a film that drifts freely between reality, dram and imaginary states, showing the tenuousness of the concrete and the plausibility of the conceptual. Naturally, such a work would appeal to the creator of Persona where not only the consciousness but also the very identity of the protagonist is challenged - before the existence of the very film reel itself is called into question (there is a remarkable sequence that directly honours the Bergman's reel meltdown).Peter Strickland's dream-sealed Berberian Sound Studio also twists the idea of consciousness and identity. Toby Jones wanders in - into the studio, although he's actually and more pertinently waling into focus - and is introduced to the film on which he will both engineer and create the sound. During the course of a deliberately shot film in which action and sound are all susceptible to manipulation we learn increasingly less about this character, Gilderoy, and the Latin company with their tripwire tempers with whom he must work and, increasingly emulate.It's an intense 90 minutes. The narrative tubers are a little stubby to offer a coherent story at its close (like Blow-Up). I think the point is to create an internal resonance with the viewer rather than an object for discussion. Chris Dickens' editing is beautiful. 7/10
